ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4026	Dear colleagues, we continue the debate at point two, the request of the Croatian People's Club delegates to discuss the draft law amending the BiH Criminal Procedure Act following an emergency procedure. We're discussing the procedure, the debate on the procedure is, therefore, open. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4027	Thank you, Mr. President. So, we have an important law in front of us, a law which, based on the Constitutional Court's ruling, needs to remove any doubt, so he would say a vacuum that exists primarily in the fact that the Constitutional Court has put, placed and marked the provisions of the Law that are not in line with the Constitution. And, here, at his session, he still hasn't definitely removed them, so there's no legal vacuum, and yet no, it's not on the work of the judicial system paralysis, which is still not shut down. Disfellowshipped unless quality legal solutions are reached, which should respect the BiH Constitutional Court's decision, but also lead to a solution that will be in line with the highest international standards and ensure, therefore, that the paralysis of the judicial system that will limit the fight against organised crime, terrorism and all forms of corruption and other forms of serious crime is in place. And that paralysis is entirely possible if there is no solution that will go through both homes, the procedures of both homes. At this point, from the moment of submission of this request, there has been a series of activities in this matter, so that in the procedure of the House of Representatives, two laws are defacto, here one and with a real judgment, therefore, that there can be complete blockade, failure of any of these laws and total paralysis. We have seen the Proposer's opinion, in this case, of the Justice Ministry, which had no opportunity, therefore, to discuss this on the Council of Ministers through a fundamental debate on this law, in a way that, therefore, the Council of Ministers should come up with a single proposal before us, which would certainly facilitate the position. We saw, therefore, that they also expressed their willingness to clarify certain open issues, and we also saw the views of the most relevant international institutions, organisations and countries of friends Bosnia and Herzegovina, who also expressed a kind of concern and responsibility for the content of the Law. So at this point, it may be the most serious and rational solution to enable, therefore, not that these laws should be rejected, but that they should also be removed through possible concrete repairs, which would be in line with these greatest demands. To remove any dilemma that tomorrow hundreds of cases that are under way will be blocked, to remove the dilemma that the BiH Court will play a limited role and reduced responsibility in the processes that have already started and that it is necessary to ensure compliance of this law with entity laws. So these are all important tasks, very complex issues, very busy times, and I think that perhaps the most rational would be that this law goes into regular procedure and that we all get involved, not in a blockade, but in the possibility of repairing and seeking solutions that will be flowing through both homes and that will remove the possibility of paralysis and that we are not wearing that stigma that politics kills the judiciary and justice system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4028	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Sredoje Nović. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4029	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I just want to say a few words to say that in this and not only this House, but in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at all, almost domesticated the more difficult, complex, more serious law to go by emergency procedure. It somehow became a rule and we became a substitute to the Council of Ministers. What the Council of Ministers can't, won't or won't arrive, is the easiest thing to say, or has not reached any agreement on such laws, it's just that there's always one of us, delegates or MPs, who will either adopt that law and similar laws to propose in an emergency procedure. I think it is really below each level that this Parliamentary Assembly has come to this stage that it proposes more laws, and it seems to me that these days a lot has been presented about how many delegates, how many delegates and MPs have proposed the law, and how many Councils of Ministers and how many others have passed. Well, sometimes someone, whoever estimates it, is us, because we certainly won't be able to evaluate it, and we won't want to assess the work of the executive government in this country, and that's the problem, not that we don't know, but that we're not going to do and that we're setting ourselves on fire in a completely different situation. This way, when you look at the Constitutional Court, if I'm not mistaken, somewhere on June 1st or July, I think, last year, you made a decision and annulled the provisions, certain provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, since then until now, it's nine full months. I don't know how long it took this law to see the light of day and it was agreed, which is quite clear that, that the Working Group, as far as we were informed, was composed of all relevant factors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and entities, and judicial giants, and government or non-governmental representatives and that, unfortunately, this zakon was, say, in ninety-seven percent agreed, but could not get the green light in the Council of Ministers. I am not going into why the Council of Ministers has come to a dispute, because we have not heard that, I do not know whether we will hear today by chance what is the key reason why this Law did not come from the Council of Ministers and that we are discussing it. Today we have a situation, therefore, that such a serious law on the one hand, systemically of course the law, we need to vote by emergency procedure and vote over, which is quite clear to us here that there is no single position on this law, and in just a few days we can expect, is that, the next law from the House of Representatives that comes to this House and that we also vote on it by an urgent procedure. The real question is, what are we doing, what are the two homes doing, what is executive power doing? And we will now be in position, I'm afraid, that one, that one and the other law will not get the green light and we are sending an additional message to our citizens, so we're sending a message to the international public, that we are not prepared to adopt, amend and supplement the law, and we're sending some other messages that I wouldn't want to elaborate on right now. I think that both laws, of course, when we see what is in that law that will only come to this House, but in this Law, there seem to be a few questions that we should, or that are referred to by legal experts, as well as the Government of Republika Srpska, that should be corrected and that these are not so serious issues that we could include in this new text. And I will therefore not be able to support this Law to go by emergency procedure, but if there is political will, if there is any will between us at all, this Law may, in the ordinary procedure, be completed as soon as possible, it is, therefore, the next month and we end in one quality way that, at this point, the Law of Criminal Procedure, no matter how much we fear that the Constitutional Court will annul the provisions. I personally think that, don't have so much fear, because here everyone seems to me, you look nice and besides that big three fears and worry about this country, because I think it's really ours and too much demagogy to get into it. The Constitutional Court, I deeply believe, if it isn't, and what we may have needed right after six months to undo those provisions, so that they can bring us here before the pillar of shame in front of the public and the people, to say, here's when you can't leave your posts. And so once again, we can't support this law by emergency procedure, but we're willing to support it in a regular procedure, even in some shortened procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4030	Thank you, Mr. Nović. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Take it out, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4031	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the College, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected members and members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Well, let me say some two, three words, which is why we have proposed this in an emergency procedure as a Club of Envoys of the Order of the Croatian People, respecting absolutely all that has been said by distinguished colleague Raguž and distinguished colleague Nović. In fact, the fact is that we didn't enter, but there's a great possibility that we could get into some legal vacuum where certain investigations would be suspended, related to acts of terrorism, acts of corruption, etc., and the fact is, here, that we had nine months that almost no movement was made there. However, fortunately for this country there is a Croatian Club in the House of Peoples, so we have referred this to an emergency procedure, at least to start talking about it, if Bog can adopt it. Absolutely aware of the objections that come from Republika Srpska and from the order of experts that some things should be changed in this Law, we all know some procedures here. So if we adopt, uh, procedure today and adopt this law by emergency procedure, and you know very well how it goes, the hands up, the hands down, there are eight hands of the Law adopted, no problem is that after that it goes with the amendments, also by emergency procedure at the next session, so that we can fix everything that needs to be fixed, if there's political will. Unless there's a political will, I can only overwrite one thing. Namely, in normal countries, and Bosnia and Herzegovina is difficult to call a normal country, so when someone commits a criminal or criminal offence, then the services involved are investigating the criminal or criminal offence and determining responsibility. We often have a situation where different services listen to this or that and seek what they might do and make mistakes in his crime. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, here, believe it or not, I don't know that you've even been in charge of it for a while, and that's what happens with us. So then we have, we have certain parties that oppose the adoption of this Act, with the exception of distinguished colleagues sitting in this House, which are not covered by investigations, half the leadership of these parties is under certain investigations. So someone's obviously responding to all these investigations getting hitched. And, here, I urge that we do this today in the way we handles up, hands down, finely adopt an emergency procedure, to finely adopt this law and by the next session, here's the club one, the club the second, the club the third, to deliver its amendments, also by emergency procedure, so we can fix it properly. And that 4 would be that, wolf full of sheep in number, Bosnia and Herzegovina even the way it is, would continue to function as much as it does. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4033	Thank you. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4034	I thank the chairman. So we have had an obligation for several months to adopt in the parliamentary procedure amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would implement the Constitutional Court's decision and allow for the full exercise of criminal jurisdiction at the state level, while meeting international standards, particularly in the field of fighting corruption and organised crime. Why has the Council of Ministers not referred a proposal for such standards and a proposal that meets these requirements? Why didn't the Working Group, appointed by the Council of Ministers, do its job? Why didn't the Council of Ministers adopt the bill? Of course, that should be answered by the Council of Ministers and the competent minister. But what we have at the session today is the Law that was proposed by the club in order, the Club of Delegations of the Croatian People, that is the Law that does not meet these requirements and that is the proposal of a club and it should be treated accordingly. This proposal reduces national justice authority, does not meet European standards on the fight against corruption and organised crime, and this proposal, if adopted, would not contribute to the fight against crime and corruption, particularly large crime. I think there is also an answer to the question why one law or one proposal on amendments to the Council of Ministers has not agreed so far. Since this proposal for amending and supplementing the Criminal Code is subject to a certain urgency due to the deadlines prescribed or a certain decision of the Constitutional Court has here a reason for urgency and there is a situation where, if a job is not already done in time, to try urgently, and there is a need for this law to be passed urgently, but there is no law that would reverse the situation and therefore we from the Bosniak Club will be against an emergency procedure today, and I think there is a law in the parliamentary procedure that meets those requirements and we will soon have the opportunity to show our relationship to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4035	Thank you too, Mr. Genjac. Replica, dear colleague, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4036	Honorable chairman, colleagues and colleagues delegates, ladies and gentlemen. This can't be taken seriously by the Rules of Procedure, but I wanted to clarify one of my dilemmas that, given these discussions we heard today, as regards Mr. Mario Karamatić's discussion. Just to explain to me how he meant this procedure, which he proposed, to adopt the Emergency Procedure Act today, so here we are already going to the next session with amendments to the emergency procedure, when we know how complex the adoption procedure is at all. So, in order for this law to come into force, it must be adopted in the same text in both homes, it must be, therefore, published in the official messenger Whether we are in this way on the right track of a solution or that 5 through this procedure proposed by Mr. Nović and Mr. Martin Raguž, and here is Mr. Genjac, we are able to reach within a short period of time, through a shortened procedure, but which is regularly through the basic legislative procedure, a quality solution that will have a pass in both homes. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4037	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. An honorary colleague, Mr. Mario Karamatić, appeared in his injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4038	Well, here, as my colleague Rodić said, it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it's about the possibility of me answering without applying for a hearing. So, dear colleague Rodić knows a lot better business procedures than I do, and I know that the law must be passed in the same text and means that if the Law in the Emergency Procedure was adopted in both homes we could once again refer to the Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act as well as to the emergency procedure where all these amendments would be included. And it can also be adopted by emergency procedure and that would, therefore, be the end of all procedures. So, we do this today if we adopt, while the House of Representatives banishes it through, we can already prepare this other law. And that's it, easy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4039	We don't need another procedure. We just need an emergency procedure. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4040	I'm glad this is as simple as this means how much political will it takes between the political parties in Parliament to get rid of this, so we wouldn't have come to this situation at all if it were so resolved. Here, that's why I think we should try through the regular procedure to get to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4041	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. If there are no further applications for participation in the discussion of the procedure related to this item of the agenda, and as far as it is visible on my monitor, we are now moving to a statement. We are voting on the procedure, so whether or not we will consider the bill as an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present - 4 delegates were in favour, 9 were against, 1 was abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 4 for, 4 against, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska – no one for, 5 against, no one abstained. There's no general majority. Accordingly, I find that the request to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Criminal Procedure Act following an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of 6 peoples have not been adopted and will be done by him in one of the next two ways, either by a shortened procedure or by regular procedure. Now I urge you to move on to a statement on whether we will be working under this law in a short procedure. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 8 were... Please repeat the vote, I apologize. Repeat the vote, please. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present, 10 were for, 5 were against, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 5 for, against 5 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 5 for, no objection and no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the House has adopted a request to consider the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure under a reduced procedure. We're going to work at three now, Ad. 3. Request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, No. 02-02-1-629/18, of 12.03.2018 You have received a request from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing BiH's election law according to an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has a distinguished delegate, Mrs. Ljilja Zovko. Here you go, Mrs. Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4043	Thank you very much, President. I welcome all present. On behalf of the Croatian Club, pursuant to Article 153 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, we propose the next conclusion regarding this item of the agenda. 1. The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH postpones its statement on the request of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives to discuss the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law on a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law of 12.03.2018. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly People's House is in charge of the Central Election Commission of BiH, the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of BiH, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Public Procurement Agency of BiH to deliver an opinion on the above-mentioned Law within seven days of the adoption of this conclusion, each of them within the framework of their jurisdiction. 3. The next meeting of the House of People will be held by the end of the month, i.e. until 26 April 2018. 7 This is the conclusion in front of the Club of Croats, for it is necessary for such an important law to have these opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4044	Thank you, too. The word is still sought by an esteemed colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4045	I thank the chairman. We have today an extremely significant law, which intervenes in a very delicate area of integrity of the electoral process. And given the fact that this Law has been adopted at the House of Representatives and given the fact that the biggest complaints about the election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina are precisely in the areas treated by this Law, especially at polling stations and voting committees after the polls are closed, that in election cycles the talk of the cancelled ballots is repeatedly repeated, about the failure of voters in polling stations in a way that ignores the voter's will, and the various interventions of election committees on ballots reroute or falsify the voter's will, I think that in this bill we have obtained a solid attempt to scan through optical, therefore, readers, through biometric fingerprint readers, through video surveillance, so, if applied to a significant extent, to ensure the integrity of the electoral process, particularly in these sensitive points. We at the Bosniak Club have considered this issue this morning, we believe that these needs are necessary and necessary and the Bosniak Club will support the examination of this Law by emergency procedure and the Election Act itself. I think in terms of the conclusion proposed, this is the legitimate right of every club, I understand that, however, if this Law were to be adopted then it would make sense to rephrase the conclusion in the sense that all the institutions that are numbered are in charge of ensuring the implementation of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4046	Thank you, too, Mr. Genjac. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was again sought by Mr Mario Karamatić. Mr. Karamatić before I give you my word, so you have this quote below – correction of the wrong quote. So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure involves some of the obligations of the College, this, to declare whether there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure, etc., so that you do not each time ask that question, just activate this third one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4047	In the future, we will go to correct the wrong allegations, but a fellow Genjac has expressed his position, his club's position, I don't think I can say it's the wrong quote, obviously they have that decision. To me, what's kind of fascinating, so it's not a problem if they stop investigating corruption, there's no problem and it's not a rush, but there's a law that's really uncomplicated, so it's an election law where we have the verdict of the Constitutional Court. And now without the opinion of these institutions, which are listed in our conclusion, that we approach the adoption of 8 emergency procedures and the urgent adoption of the law. Well, my people, we don't even have the opinion of the Central Election Commission, we don't have the opinion of the Personal Data Protection Agency, we don't have anyone's opinion and we're ready to, so, come into something if someone just sends the Constitutional Court's appeal to declare the Constitutional Court and this Law and these amendments unconstitutional. I don't understand that logic, especially since no one here is trying to break this law, so here is a delay of some days while we get the necessary opinions. Speaking of these changes proposed, from scans, prints, there is an institution called the Personal Data Protection Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am very interested in their opinion whether this Law is in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. Also, when they report to me, I'll be very interested in who gave the SDP phone numbers to HT Eronette subscribers to harass them with messages that they've adopted some 10 for these elections, so I get people upset with my Herzegovina, they say -- where did SDP get my phone number. People are in shock, it's about the abuse of personal data, and it's a very strong abuse. So, one pro-Communist party to harass honest Hrvat and Catholics by sending them some messages that they have some kind of plan. You can't do that. And we're going in now, if this law were to be adopted, and it won't be adopted by emergency procedure, and we're going to make it clear right now that we know who the boss is in this country, we're going to be in danger of the Constitutional Court canceling this Electoral Law again. I don't think it's right and that it would be right to wait for the opinion of the competent agencies and after that to be seen about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4048	Thank you, too. Mr. Nović reported for failing to observe the established agenda. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4049	I just want to ask you what we're discussing. Are we discussing an emergency procedure of the law or discussing a proposal for a conclusion? If we're discussing the conclusion proposal, let's concentrate on the conclusion, say yes, we're not, the reasons why we're not, and if we're opening an emergency procedure debate, then that's another story. And I want to know what it is, or we're gonna dump everything like this, so my Bog, as far as we can get.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4050	Thank you, Mr. Nović. So, on your request an explanation of the current course of debate. So we are currently in the debate phase on whether this law will be treated by emergency procedure. The conclusion of the Croatian People's Club applied precisely to the procedure as point 1 says a statement on the request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to discuss the draft law on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law is being postponed following an urgent, or urgent procedure. So all the discussions and replicas are related to the procedure itself, whether the law will be under emergency procedure discussed or not, and not to the content of the Law itself. If one of the colleagues makes an extra argument goes into the area, you know how, it's hard, they're all skilled politicians, so you can't really react in any situation. 9 The word was sought by a distinguished delegate, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4051	I welcome everyone and join the greetings, so I don't particularly welcome everyone. I would, here I reacted when Mr. Genjac answered, and we are talking about our conclusion, and then in the meantime, a colleague of Karamatić... The conclusion requires, excuse me, the opinion of the Personal Data Protection Agency. The reason we've been looking for this conclusion is such an attack by means of public information in the Federation, I really don't, I don't know in Republika Srpska, where it turns out that HDZ won't accept this terrible law and that it's prone to these frauds. I'm glad everything's settled in Bosnia, there's no fraud anywhere in Sarajevo, there's no Tuzla, there's no Zenica, there's no Bihac, because there's no HDZ, and there's no HDZ there, and it's all clean. The problem is somewhere in some Federation territory, but I don't know why colleagues insist, they certainly don't have votes there. There was a question, and the law was so talked about on that television that there was never a story about a fingerprint, there was always a story about video surveillance and an electronic voice count, but no video. And I'm surprised by the SDA because their Federal Defence Minister won't announce it, he says he can't publish, because this same agency has a ban, because it can't be applied, they've got a ban, it can't because there's a unique parent number, it can't even throw out a single parent number. And that minister strictly adheres to the opinion of this agency which, among other things, in the opinion of the Agency and says – when you go across the border, when you are in court, it says here, when you are in court, when you inherit wealth, land, whatever, it is enough to bring your ID card. So crossing the border is enough personal, and to access the vote you have to, you're still missing an x-ray, so you have to give a fingerprint. And with that we're getting into trouble because it's a privacy that, by this law, because I read it, is not protected at all. So he can manipulate whoever he wants, and we know in particular how we trust these security services. So, in this explanation stands,... The agencies, that fingerprint, even the video camera, but the fingerprint, which is not talked about on television, because they know that this can't, that's why we're asking, among other things, for this session, to adopt this conclusion of ours and delay for another occasion. And we'll talk about that law and all the other fraud when the time comes without having any election law at all, and we don't know how we're going to go into election proceedings, about that story that I'm not talking about. So we're talking, we're playing here, and we don't have how we're going to get in and out of the election process at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4052	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. The word further in terms of discussion...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4053	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4054	So I'm asking you then to sign down in the form of a replica, but well, right on the replica used by Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4055	Thank you. 10 Ma, I don't know where it's said that this manipulation in polling stations is geographically limited. So it's a general phenomenon, it's not geographically limited at all, and I don't know what it's from, I think it's very widespread, across our Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's one thing. I don't think the defence issue is connected to this agenda point, we were just talking about the urgency of the procedure. And thirdly, I would ask the College to study, or assess, or to define itself with regard to Article 124, because when a law is passed under emergency procedure, this is an intervention, the position (2) of that member says – the request from this member is considered at the next session of the House and the House decides on the request after the debate. Can the conclusion of the law proposed by the emergency procedure be removed? I'd like to hear the answer. By my understanding, we're pleading on the proposal at the next session, and whether, uh, the College should still be defined. So, when this request is under discussion, the vote, according to the Rules of Procedure, is put to the vote when the request is discussed. If adopted, the House continues to debate and vote on the bill proposal, whether to adopt it, etc., etc., amend...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4056	Thank you. So, you're now taking an intervention at the conclusion, in terms of breach of the Rules of Procedure? Do you want Dom to plead his injury to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4057	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4058	Okay. I'm going to ask my colleagues for a moment to consult. [[/consultations in the College.]] We've made an insight into this conclusion, we've been consulting, the conclusion is that in the preamble, the Proposer called for Article 153. The Rules of Procedure which state that the conclusion is that the conclusion is an act which is brought on questions concerning individual matters concerning the procedure. Therefore, colleagues from the Croatian people used this kind of norm, calling on the basis to propose this conclusion. In that sense, we can continue to discuss this point. A esteemed colleague, Mr Nebojša Radmanović, appeared further. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4060	Ladies and gentlemen. We do, if I recall, and you all remember perfectly, the second time a session is about this law. We haven't even started the debate, I feel, I don't know how you, some tension, and we haven't gotten into the essence of the Law debate yet. I suggest we all ask ourselves why that is. If Mr. Chairman you think there is no tension, I'll remind you that you interrupted last session past the Rules of Procedure, that you broke up at the request of one delegate, which has never happened in three years. And it's all made one incredible climate about amendments to the election law. I will also remind you that during the last year there have been several proposals for amendments to the Electoral Law and all of the parliamentary benches, whether they are parliamentary groups or clubs. Of course, when Council of Ministers 11 sleeps, when the Council of Ministers doesn't think it's necessary to deal with election procedures, the Council of Ministers doesn't think it's necessary to execute what the Constitutional Court has ordered, when the Council of Ministers doesn't think it's necessary to fight for the equality of the people, but we have to do it here, in this House. And we've talked about it a few times and very well, and don't make a mistake now, and we'll make a mistake. If we adopt an urgent process of amending the Law that does not speak of what I was talking about, if we are left with Mostar, who is a democratic early Europe, and not only Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we are left with an unfulfilled obligation from the Constitutional Court ruling, if we are in a situation where we are already due to a media approach, to share ourselves with those who are for progress, for electronics, and for pencils and paper, so that is not the essence of the story, the essence is something else. And that's why our appeal was before last session, or before this session started, let's go to regular procedure, we're all in favour of new technologies. I remind you that we had an Interresor Working Group that worked out who knows how much with the representatives of both this House and all the institutions we're talking about today, there were no quality solutions, and they discussed new technologies. We had to hear that, and that's why we need a regular procedure. We're all one step ahead. Of course, there were those who were talking about stealing in the polls. I would like to remind you, even Mr Genjac, that eight years ago in Bosnia and Herzegovina and those who care more over Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have concluded that we have reached the democratic level of Europe through election processes. That means minimum irregularities, and that's how it was. All of a sudden, everyone says they're all stealing, and that's why it's urgent to adopt the law because they're stealing everyone. And please, let me remind you of something else, this is mostly suggested by representatives of small political parties. So who's it stolen from? They're being stolen from big political parties. Well, he can't steal SNSD from Mr Tadić's political party, which he'll steal, there's nothing. So it's being stolen from us. And we are for transparency, for progress when it comes to the electoral process, but not in this way, not as some groups of people have imagined here and that what is not the essence of the election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina is, in particular, not the essence of this House of Ladies and gentlemen. Here the equality of the people is the first thing, and I think that's what we need to focus on. Of course, we're not going to say that the Council of Ministers is not able to say how much this costs, who's going to pay for it, whether there's funds in the budget, but that's just for you to adopt it quickly, and that's it. Then it causes anxiety, then we wonder what's behind it, why is that, why do we suddenly have a majority in the House of Representatives, even in this House say there's a majority to adopt it? I remind you, in this House was the majority who adopted the amendments and amendments to the Election Law by implementing the Constitutional Court Decision. Those who voted against it in the Representative's office are now proposing this and seeking among the majority, the first here, a problem to reach the new majority. What are we actually doing, who's using it? Is there anyone who can tell who's using this? And just one sentence at the end, I listened very carefully to what Mr. Genjac said, I don't want a line on the whole debate, but I remind you, Mr. Genjac, you said this was a solid attempt. Exactly, I quote, so that's all it does is associate that we should go into regular procedure, a solid attempt is not the one we should vote on, but we need to fix it. And that's why we stand up for it, and that's why we're against emergency procedures. And we think that's the solution, we think that we need to achieve unity. Don't let an emergency procedure in the House of Peoples divide the majority, the two clubs national, against it, and yet it goes through most of the votes. It's not good for anyone, not in this House, not in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4061	Thank you. The word is Mr. Ognjen Tadić, correcting the wrong quote. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4062	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, guests. Well, if I had ordered the discussion, I wouldn't have been able to order it like Mr. Radmanović mentioned. So, first of all, as regards the Rules of Procedure, I have made my decision after consulting with my colleagues in accordance with Article 23.stav (1) indent (j) which says that the chairman of the House of Peoples is creating assumptions for the full ageing of the rights and the exercise of the duties of delegates in the House of Peoples under the jurisdiction of the House. It is now clear that after this debate that part of the delegates here participated, Mr Radončić cannot vote last time because he had an appointment. That's what Mr. Radončić himself was talking about in public. It was my obligation as a predicting House to prevent police methods from affecting the work of the House of Peoples, because I have an obligation to safeguard the dignity and dignity of this House. If Mr Radončić had asked for a stay so as to go, with the permission of your personality, because it is about you, visiting someone, or for some time, or not telling my aunt's medicine to buy, I would not have complied with the request, but since he wanted to be prevented from achieving his right to delegates, so as not to pass this Law, I could have participated in these police methods which, in the end, are the same ones who, for example, are told to – sit at home, sit in elections and for which these amendments are being introduced. Since it wasn't your only objection to me, I'm going to look back on this one. It's not stolen from parties, Mr. Radmanović, it's stolen from the people. If someone steals votes, doesn't steal them from me, steals from whoever has the right to vote. As far as I'm concerned, no one here has to protect me or anyone else, whether the party has 500,000 votes or had 50, here's the problem that all the thefts in this country start by stealing choices, all of it, and cyclically. And everybody participates in it, they're all right to say it here, but somehow by some providence, there's a situation where maybe it can be changed and now take it or leave it. If I had written this Law, maybe I'd put the decimal point, point, etc., in some places, maybe I'd have put in some other provision, maybe I'd have thrown this out, put that in, but I didn't write the law. I'm letting whoever suggested him know why he did it like that. And in that sense, I also treat Mr. Genjac's remarks, that the law is solidly written, but to miss the chance if we have something like this to do, that's hard. And now, since you mentioned me personally, so I did, I was a candidate in the Romanovci in 2014, a place that has no Bošnjak Muslim. Ramiz Salkić received 199 votes, and I received one. It seems that it was easier for someone, perhaps talking about the patriotism of certain political structures to inform their boss that he received more votes in the clean Serbian place, 199, Ramiz Salkić, than one Srbin Ognjen Tadić. When I multiply that by the number of polling stations in Republika Srpska, you know, someone would ask the question of what the real result of these elections is. As you know, I've suffered it human...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4063	Time, Mr. Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4064	Not to say masculine and, of course, we're moving on. But that doesn't exempt me from the responsibility of trying to give every voter in this country maximum conditions for his voice not to be stolen, not from me, but from him. That's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4065	Thank you very much. 13 The word has a Mr. Nebojša Radmanović, the correction of the false quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4066	It rarely happens that inappropriate words are spoken in this House, and that still happened today. You looked at me and said: "You steal from the people." So that's inadmissible, Mr. Tadić, no matter who.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4067	That's not true, I said - it's stolen.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4068	So, SNSD, and personally, I have never served a team, and I can easily prove it when I was long before you thought, and this group, said that transparency should be brought completely to the level in the election process. But it's not the only story, you've accused the people here who won't vote for you. It's normal for one who loses to deal with various numbers, to watch data like you. The people didn't think it was necessary to vote for you and no one stole it. We'll give other examples, please. One of you close to the Alliance, when he lost the election, threw out the number that he was an inappropriate number of unaccounted for, that he had lost because of it. When four years later, he won, by some miracle, we don't even know how, we actually know how, it was just as much inconsistencies, he didn't even mention it. And so would you, if by miracle you had won, and that hadn't happened, you wouldn't have mentioned this case. So please, is that why I answered, don't insult people and political parties, it's not good in this House either, and let us conduct this debate correctly. The debate should be conducted in the Electoral Law correctly, especially in the House of Peoples, and in it, I stress again, the priority must be something else, not this.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4069	Thank you. Mr. Ognjen Tadić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4070	With all due respect to each of the delegates, this is probably the first time someone's ever made a point to me not to take care of the extent I'm telling you anything. I'm glad I heard from what you said that your conclusion is the product of not hearing what I was saying, and then, for the sake of the public, I just want to correct your false allegations. First, I didn't say you were stealing, I said it was stealing. And to steal that is clear, here, and based on the following example. In 10 polling stations in 2014, those who were a little more passionate wrote that I had zero votes, and that Ramiz Salkić had won that and Milorad Dodik in purely Serbian places. There we were fortunate that the Electoral Commission, even as we have, adopted our objections on the subject because, you know, when you have zero votes, and you have a total of 297,000 votes, it's kind of illogical not to get at least one vote in a polling post. And then they adopted these objections to us, and that's where the results for a few thousand votes in favour of me as a candidate for the Alliance for Change changed. So there's direct proof that it's being stolen. I don't know why one of the people who kept voices there on behalf of the Alliance for Change could have stolen only someone who wasn't there. If anyone recognizes it, it's really his problem. 14 Second, if I had ever intended to accuse the people of something, I would not have waited 2018 to do so. So, already on election night, fully aware of the conditions in which the elections were held, aware of the tension, the fear that led to that happiness, uh, accidentally not getting out of control, that I wouldn't win. We have also seen some foreign citizens by Banja Luka, quite militaryly equipped, etc., etc. If it had been up to me to push the people into some problem, to cause riots, demonstrations, etc., I had it when I did it. So I'm not accusing the people. The people know why he decided so and, after all, why would I accuse him when what the people voted was not counted that way. Therefore, this Electoral Law should be passed in order to finally count correctly what the people vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4071	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4072	Thank you. Well, here, the debate goes in a number of directions, and on the table we have, so the proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Club and we have the law. So how did I understand this conclusion? I understood him very positively and responsibly. Why? Because this bill on the so-called law. The technical changes, which are necessary, immediately to say my position, and necessary in the electoral process in this country, that's what I've been talking about here, and I don't want to repeat myself, in the last two or three terms, constantly, perhaps most of all of all the envoys. To respect the electoral right of every man and every person in this country and that no one, any option here, makes a difference, has the right to take a vote from anyone. And that's why we need those changes. The scope of these changes in this bill is radical in terms of organisational, human, time, technical, financial and each other, we need to know that, these are facts. This does not mean that we should be against it, however, I am personally in favour of, I should say immediately, but we must also be aware that the conduct of such a major procedure in the electoral process requires the responsibility of all the institutions involved in the electoral process. Do we have any views so far written, official, reasoned on whether or not the financial, organisational, human beings are able to implement this? No, at least I don't, maybe I'm wrong. And this conclusion gives a chance that everyone in this process, here, starting from us, the envoys, to those who need to conduct elections and ensure fundamental assumptions, and clearly here in Parliament, is manifested by 26, that's ten days, it's not that eternity. And let's all think about this conclusion proposal and let's not play this like a pinball, black and white, this is not a matter of any party, not even of any people, this is a matter of all peoples, and of all citizens and the future of this country. Even I would go further to..., that these institutions are obliged to create assumptions, not to beg them, but to create assumptions that voices can be scanned, that they can be counted in quality, that they cannot be annulled, that everyone can be made available to the electoral process and that one who truly gets voter support will win. I'm not talking about personal experiences, Mr. Tadić, we all have personal experiences here, but I can only say, so it's not true that the democratic election process here is being strengthened by standards, and unfortunately it's going back. Only indicators from the last elections say Bosnia and Herzegovina had the largest number of invalid ballots for the largest institution in the world, 8%. Take what almost 1/10 votes means to the people, to the people, to the citizens, to the voters, to be annulled. So we can't lose the moment and the chance to do something, but we also can't get into that process with our throats in the strawberries without the co-responsibility of all those who need to take their share of responsibility for the implementation of this process. I think it is reasonable to give this conclusion and institutions a chance to manifest themselves here in front of us and then make a final decision, and the final decision should go in the direction of 15 democratisation, protecting the integrity of the electoral process and fair elections. And the party that I belong to and I personally are absolutely for it and we will persist on that path, but we also don't want to be participants here completely still in a dysfunctional situation about whether it's real, in what capacity and what all of the consequences that can be. Someone can say tomorrow that it's not possible to carry out the election process this way, and it's his responsibility to do it, and we don't have that attitude yet. What can be the political consequences of that? Could it be a lack of choice or irregularity extra, even harder? We need that back-up before we finally get to the bottom of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4073	Thank you too, Mr. Raguž. The word has a distinguished delegate, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4074	The Honorable Chairman. Here, I want to say a few words when it comes to it, and I'm going to stick to the exact subject of the agenda and this conclusion, because I think that's the most important thing right now. First, I think it's very important, given that it's a very, very complex question, and whoever says it's different, I don't think it's sufficiently directed to this process. I'll just mention a few facts. I was a member of the Interresor Working Group who worked long during the previous term of office on amendments and additions to the Election Law. Among other things, there has been a lot of discussion about new technologies in the election process and there is no topic that has not been touched and much broader than what we have as a proposal for this law by emergency procedure. And there was no political will to go through one system proposal, and let me remind you, in the Interresor Working Group are the most important factors that decide on this election process, and representatives of both homes of the Parlamentary Assembly, and the Council of Ministers, and the Central Election Commission, and we have not come to a solution, but we reach a solution of minutes to 12. And I don't like it when you ask a question take it or leave it, so we'll say this, you know we share society and political parties, who's for fair and fair elections, and who's against it. I immediately say, I've always been and I've stood up, and since 2000 I've been involved in election processes, and finally this high House has adopted reports from the Central Election Commission and recommendations. Go back 10 years, and you'll find in these recommendations everything that we're talking about today, but it's probably simple and it's very simple to make such decisions. Here, for me, I will only list three questions and I will not enter into the measure of this proposed law, at least three things that are controversial, here are certain constitutional solutions, because this law is intruding into constitutional issues. Look at the chapter on human rights, look at the conventions we've taken over, and you'll see how many words there are about privacy and everything that gets in the way of human rights. So for me, the minimum of what we can do, and to be on the back of what we're talking about, is to get opinions from these measuring and competent institutions, that when we decide, we have everything that's explained in the way that needs to be explained. I have not yet heard the position of many of these institutions, which will be deeply involved in this process. The simplest thing is to decide and say – here we are for new technologies, we will conduct elections according to these new technologies, and a lot of what Mr. Martin Raguž said is fog. So I just called to say that this is a good proposal, to adopt this conclusion, to try to get some opinions and, here, in 10 days to talk about the measure of the law. Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4075	Thank you. A distinguished colleague, Mr. Sredoje Nović, appeared for the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4076	A little out of the ordinary which, here, and another time I appear in a very short period, but the part I said about the previous law seems to be absolutely relevant to this law, if not much more important. Let's just analyze why this came after an emergency procedure and how this came by emergency procedure at all. We're gonna have to take a look at that. As early as November last year, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data was requested, from one party which proposed, together with others, this Act, the position of the Agency and received that it was a negative position, i.e. that it did not comply with that law, that the opposite of European conventions is contrary to the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, etc., etc., which you read about. And imagine now being referred to the House of Representatives, the accompanying act – the proposal, says, the law on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law dated 20.08.2018, I stress 20.08.2018. In the view (1), it is said, at the very end, that we do not always quote, – it must bear in mind the short deadline until which the Central Election Commission must call the General Elections in 2018, to carry out any public procurement procedure as well as the fact that the election year is soon to take place in which electoral legislation should not be changed. Well, tell me who's really who here, what we're really doing. You're sending us a memo, you're unable to change the memo that occurred in November of the month, and only changed, header, date. And we say it's an emergency law. Of course, because we've been keeping him in a drawer for two months conscious to talk today about the urgency of the law. And in the end it is said, besides the rest – the law is so simple, so it is not simple, it is so simple. Here, it's a memo sent to the House of Representatives. I don't know who's been reading from them because I don't care about that, but I want to keep this House's dignity safe. So much for that part of the urgency of this law. ...., I have to back it up a little bit, to this letter from the Party Agency answers and binds itself to their request, is that, and corresponds in December and amongst other things confirms almost everything she later confirmed, and she did not say anything new except that the law would have a particularly negative impact on the privacy of a person who is under such supervision, when it comes to video surveillance, etc., that the content is now not getting into all of this because it would be, I would have already entered the measure of the law, and I am trying only to talk about the procedure, and they say that doing video surveillance and fingerprint processing in order to detect and prevent damage to the voting process is a violation of the right to individuals' privacy. This agency corresponds to those political parties they were looking for at the time, and I stress this in November 2017. What are we still doing? You see, we are still changing only the date, we are changing the date that is being referred to the House of Representatives, we are not even able to change the chapter, we are saying – on the basis of Article IV (a) of the Constitution of BiH The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at the session of the House of Representatives held in 2017, 2017, so here is your urgency, and at the meeting of the House of Peoples held, only no date, in 2017 it passed the Law on amendments and additions to this Act. So many distinguished gentlemen of such urgency that we are discussing today. Farce is, therefore, my conclusion to myself.), the farce were the meetings of mentors who called some in political parties these months, from January to today, and to God's debate led about this Law that was already in the Parliamentary Assembly. So, I don't think it really makes sense that this is how we talk about the urgency of the law, that I'm not going in any further. Who assumes responsibility for the adoption of this Act by an urgent procedure, has to say, I am asking in this House to be told by someone who takes responsibility for it, we can reach a conclusion, it is wonderful, so not one Parliament has reached conclusions and nothing has happened, but this is no ordinary law, it is so simple but it is not 17 daily, is it taken over by the CEC or by someone else? I ask that the CEC declare whether it takes responsibility and whether it can implement it, okay, can implement it legally, legitimately, all right, there are no more problems. The Agency for Identification, for the Protection of Personal Data, told its own and she said it was contrary to their law. Okay, and I welcome that. He has to tell the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Finance whether it's 13, 113 million, we'd talk about it a little later if we went through this phase and went into that second phase, right, if there's money or we say there's gotta be money, the sea, as we've brought changes to the law... pay for several police officers, etc., so there'll be pay, there'll be money just you working on it, right? We must be answered by the Agency for, IDDEEA, do you know who the guard is, not to say the seal, who holds fingerprints, the Agency must tell us how many voters in Bosnia and Herzegovina who have no new documents, which are not in the fingerprint system. It automatically means, and I'm not going to tell you the percent right now, I'm afraid it's not absolutely accurate, so we're going to manipulate it, so it can't be connected to the election site at all on election day with the base to determine whether it's that man or not. That's, that's Agency IDDEEA data, the official IDDEEA data that exists, ask, you'll see. And if I don't, I'd like to read it to you right now, but it's not the agenda, you're going to say again that I'm going to skip that agenda, this record of debate, with debates, to say colleagues, the Central Commission, or the CEC, so you're going to be amazed at this law. I'd like to read it here or get a bar, or at least have representatives come and tell us all about it. That's why I think really, not contesting all of this to be modernized, etc., and our colleague Genjac and colleague Rodić were in some commissions about it, I think we should at least respect it so much that we get the opinions of these significant institutions, so let's decide then. If those, uh, agencies, or institutions say there's no need, okay, then at least we know where we're at. Here's so much for me. So to support this conclusion, nothing will fail until the 26th, thank Bog and much more difficult things have happened. I think we have to be a little bit all, let's say, at least tolerate each other and I'm not for using any hard words, no matter how much we agree, we disagree, how much we profit, not profit, and those who propose legitimately is the right to propose, and those who vote for legitimate is right, and those against. So, we're all here and I'm still thinking about the same task and with the same desire to get to the fair, democratic and true, let's say, the results of these choices. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4077	Thank you, Mr. Nović. There are no further applications for participation in the discussion. In line with the Rules of Procedure, given that the conclusion is procedural in nature, I will now put forward a proposal for a conclusion proposed by Mrs Ljilja Zovko, Mr Bariša Čolak, Mrs Zdenka Džambas and Mr Mario Karamatić. The content of the conclusion you heard. Start the vote. Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You want to re-vote? 18 Please repeat the vote. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present – 8 were for, 7 were against, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 5 for, 5 against, abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 3 for, 2 against, there are no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I find that a conclusion has been adopted delaying the statement on the request of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives to discuss the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure and in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People in charge of the Central Election Commission of BiH, the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of BiH – IDDEA, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Public Procurement Agency of BiH, that within 7 days of the adoption of this conclusion of the opinion on the above-mentioned law, each within the framework of its jurisdiction and which determines that the next session of the People's House will be held at the latest by the end of the month, at the latest by 26.04.2018. Given that this conclusion is passed on to work on the next item of the agenda, that's point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-2209/17, from 02.02.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4080	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4081	It's like the report. Thank you. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he wants to? Mr. Bevanda... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He's the vice president, so... excuse me, the House of Representatives. On behalf of the House of Representatives, is there a reporter here? Is it one of the colleagues who went out? Break five minutes. 19 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4084	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4085	So you're staying as in the proposal. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present, 13 delegates were against no one with abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, from Republika Srpska – 5 for. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the draft law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in a second reading in the same text as in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. We're going to work at point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Air Force of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-2397/17, from 02.02.2018 This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication to the House of Peoples. The Commission supported the draft law and proposed that it be adopted to the House. I now give the word to Mr Sead Kadić, the first deputy chairman of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4087	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4088	It's like the report. Thank you. 20 Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he is present and if he wishes. He is again the House of Representatives. Do we have information on who's on behalf of the House of Representatives in charge of proposing this item of the agenda? Last time we had information, we secured Mr. Bojić's presence, and now we don't have that kind of information. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but here's really this atmosphere has contributed to my making a mistake. I've taken the responsibility, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So I have nothing to add to this bill. I hope this won't be misused, but if it is, here's the nice one, too. Otherwise, Aleksandra Pandurević, a colleague, asked me to, so don't mind. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? So there are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Air Force Act in the second reading. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 11 were for, against no one, two delegates were abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against, no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska – 3 for, against none, a abstention of 2 delegates. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Air Force of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in a second reading in the same text as in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. And to add Mr. Babalj should have, I was on the Commission's proposal, and you were supposed to be here. So that's why there's been a mistake. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Independent and Supervisory Authorities of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Police Structure (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1752-4/17, since 14.11.2017 This is the first reading of the bill. Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received the opinion of the legislative sector, the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples and the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of BiH. The legislative sector has found that the bill does not comply with the provisions of Article 25. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People and with the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As a result, he sent a letter to the College of the People's House and the Opinion of the Legislative Sector to correct the observed shortcomings in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Independent and Supervisory Authorities of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Police Structure. On 10.11.2017, the Proposer submitted a new text of the bill in line with the Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Sector. The constitutional committee of the House of Peoples found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. The joint defence and security committee in BiH supported the principles of the bill. At its 57th session, held on 20.02.2018, the House adopted the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Independent and Supervisory Authorities of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Police Structure in the first reading. 21 Now I give the first word to Mr. Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of the Peoples, if He wills. Do you want to?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4090	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4091	Thank you. Now I give my word to the bill promoter if he is present, in front of the Ministry of Security. Okay. In view of this situation, I am now putting the proposal to the vote whether we will be working on this agenda point without the applicant present, which is in line with the Rules of Procedure. I call on us to plead. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 3 delegates, 10 delegates were against, 1 delegate was retained. From the Federation of BiH – 3 for, 5 against, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska – no one for, 5 against, abstained no one. I agree that we have made a decision that we will not work on this agenda point and will work on it at the next session when the conditions for working on this agenda point are obtained with the presence of the promoter. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Request of the Constitutional Legal Commission to the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to extend the deadline for the delivery of opinions or to suspend the legislative procedure on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Communication Act (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2759/17, of 22.12.2017 At its 45th session, held on 19.02.2018, at the request of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, he extended the deadline for the Commission to deliver an opinion on the proposal for a law supplementing the Communication Act until the next meeting of the House of Peoples. At its session, held on 19.03.2018, the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations decided to postpone the examination of the proposed Law and asked the People's House to extend the deadline for submission of opinions until the next session. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the request of the Constitutional Commission to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to extend the deadline for submitting opinions on the proposal for a law supplementing the Communication Act. Start the vote. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 9 were for, 5 were against, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH-9 for, against, no one, abstentioned from Republika Srpska -- no one in favour of, 5 against, no abstentions. There's a general majority but there's no entity. 22 [[/consultations in the College.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4096	No microphone 23
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4097	It's like the report. Thank you. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he wishes. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's like the proposal. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no applications for participation. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4099	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4100	Please repeat the vote at Mr. Babalj's request. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 11 were for, against none, 3 delegates were abstained. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, no one, with abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, no, 3 delegates with abstention. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. We're going to work at point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons who report corruption in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: delegates Bariša Čolak, Halid Genjac and Darko Babalj, Law No: 02-02-1-2687/17, of 22.11.2017 This is the first reading of the bill. According to Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received the Opinion of the Legislative Sector and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has established that the proposal for a law is in line with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People and with the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The constitutional committee of the House of Peoples found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina and supported the principles of the bill. I now give the word to Mr. Halid Genjac, chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples, if he wishes. He's out. His first deputy, you Mr. Nović, no, Mr. Čolak. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4102	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4103	Like in the report means. All right. I'm opening a debate, I'm sorry, I'm giving my word to the Proposer of the Law, so either Mr. Čolak or Mr. Babalj. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's like the proposal. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has a distinguished delegate, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4105	The Honorable Chairman. Just to clarify one dilemma. If I am not mistaken for the same bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Persons who report corruption in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina was in the procedure of the House of Representatives. My question is – Since there were legislators there, of course, MPs from the House of Representatives, whether this Law in the same text was proposed in the House of Peoples, since the legislative procedure was suspended there. And now by adopting and passing this home, we are returning this law to procedure, and what does that get us? Is it possible to get an explanation, I understand that, of course, what will happen, but then what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4106	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. So, I'm going to try to stay completely on the formal side of this whole topic. Therefore, three delegates who, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, have the right to be legislators of the Law have exercised their right to do so. All other elements related to your remark I understand as something concerning the matter itself of the Law and I cannot intervene except for the right to vote to support it, to be abstention or to vote against it. So according to the Rules of Procedure, so this is simply the point that was in the procedure. There are no other applications for participation in the debate. I'm closing the debate. We are now moving on to a statement on the Amendment Law proposal and additions to the Law on the Protection of Persons who report corruption in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 11 were for, against three delegates, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against no one, abstentioned no one. From Republika Srpska – 2 for, 3 against, there are no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. 25 I find that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons who report corruption in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. We're going to work at 10th, Ad. Ten. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Parliamentary Oversight – Proposer: Temporary Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly Houses to prepare and refer to parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control (Law No: 01,02-02-1-1348/17, of 26.05.2017.) number: 01,02-02-1-1348/17, since 21.02.2018 The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at the 5th session of the Emergency, held on 22.12.2017, passed a Law on Parliamentary Oversight with five amendments. At the 53rd session, held on 30.11.2016, the House of Representatives adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parliamentary Control with four amendments. Since the Law was adopted in a different text compared to the House of Representatives, the House of Peoples in the Joint Commission for the Consensus of the text of the Law is the names of Mr Sead Kadić, Mrs Ljilja Zovko and Mr Darko Babalj. At a meeting held on 20.02.2018, a joint session of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on the Parliamentary Ndzor. The Joint Commission has adopted the text of the Law and proposes to the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives to adopt this Report and adopt the single text of the Law on Parliamentary Control with amendments adopted by both homes in identical text, Amendment II and amendments agreed by the Joint Commission. I give the word to Mrs Ljilji Zovko, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session if it pleases.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4108	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4109	It's like the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement and vote on the Joint Commission's report at both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Parliamentary Oversight. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You want to vote again? I'm asking you to repeat the vote. Mr. Babalj, did you vote? You want us to do it again? I'm also asking for the third time to repeat the vote. 26 Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 11 delegates were for, against no one, three delegates were detained. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against no one, with abstentions. From Republika Srpska – 2 for, no, abstention 3. There is a general and entity majority I Konstatuj that the Joint Commission Report of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Parliamentary Control has been adopted. Now we move to point 11, Ad. 11. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2017, issue: 05/3-50-19-474/18, of 13/02/2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4112	It's like the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4113	It's like the report. Thank you. I give the word to the Reporter, if he wishes. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's like the report. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the report on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner for 2017. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 were for, none was against. From the Federation of BiH 9 for, from Republika Srpska 5 for. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the report on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner for 2017 has been adopted. We're going to work on item 12, Ad. 12. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: “Efficientness of the preparation of public administration reform projects in BiH” – applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 02/3-16-1164/18, since 15.01.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4116	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4117	It's like the report. Now I give the word to the Reporter, if he's present. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's like the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Efficient preparation of public administration reform projects in BiH" with recommendations contained in it. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 13 delegates, there was no one against, there was one delegate with abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against, no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska – 4 for, against none, abstention 1 delegate. There is a general and entity majority I konstatovati that the report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Efficient preparation of public administration reform projects in BiH" with recommendations contained in the Report adopted. We're going to work on point 13, Ad. 13. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: ‘Following the implementation of the impact review recommendations’ – applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 02/3-16-1-163/18, since 12.01.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4120	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4121	It's like the report. Reporter, if present. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's like the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Impact Review Report on the subject: ‘Following the implementation of the Impact Review Recommendation’. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 12 were in favour, against one, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against no one, abstentioned no one. From Republika Srpska – 3 for, 1 against, there are no abstentions. There is a general and entity majority I find that the report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Following the implementation of the impact review recommendations" adopted. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14. Report on the Commission's work on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-14-368/18, since 01.02.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4124	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4125	It's like the report. Thank you. I'll give the word to the Reporter, if he's present. Please, who's on behalf of the agency, excuse me, the Commission? 29 __________(?) One of the delegates. Just a minute. /Short consultations/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4128	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4129	Did you want that in a stenogram to get in or?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4130	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4131	Well, here's to saying, I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4132	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4133	Otherwise, it's considered a breach of order at the session. I'm closing the debate, so we're moving on to a plea. We vote on the Commission's work report on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption for 2017. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 10 were for, against three delegates, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against no one, abstentioned from Republika Srpska – 1 for, 3 against, there are no abstentions. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority, so there's a consultation. [[/consultation of the College.]] We're running a plea in the second round. The vote is in progress. Of the 13 delegates present, there were 10 delegates against three delegates who were not detained. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, against 3, there are no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. 30 I find that the Commission's work report on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption for 2017 has been adopted. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Report on the work of the Interim Investigation Commission at the National Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to obtain information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy status, applicant: The Interim Research Commission of the People's House to obtain information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy status, issue: 02-50-19-662/18, since 05.03.2018.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4136	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4137	It's like the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has a respected delegate, Mr Nebojša Radmanović. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4138	Ladies and gentlemen. I apologize first of all for not participating in the work of this commission that you have chosen me for. The reason for the non-participation except at the session when the constitution was established was not about the subject we are talking about but about for some other reasons. But now I'm reporting because I don't think the Commission did what we asked of her. This House has made an effort to select a commission with all three members of the College and three other delegates because of this very important subject. The report cannot see what you've been talking about on the Commission, but what we've received is not worthy of this House. Look, I'm calling you all once again, the report from the Commission's session, not to mention the conclusions. Apart from the first conclusion that is not a conclusion, but one accurate assessment of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and its foreign policy that amnests the ministry, and should amnest it in this sense, these three conclusions are not worthy, in my view, of the House. And that's why I can't vote for this report and these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4139	I thank Mr. Radmanović. 31 There is no record of any further participation in the discussion. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the report on the work of the Interim Investigation Commission at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to obtain information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy status with the conclusions contained in the Report. Run the plea. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present – 8 were for, 4 were against, was abstentioned 1. From the Federation of BiH – 7 for, 1 against, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, 3 against, no abstentions. There's a general but no entity majority. Mr. Karamatić, you did want to vote again, after you voted on the Commission for these conclusions. I'm sorry, I'm just asking if this isn't an accident.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4140	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4141	No, no, it's okay, you're not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4142	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4143	You don't have to, no, nothing, just wanted to ask if it wasn't a mistake to let...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4144	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4145	It's not a mistake. All right, fine. [[/consultations of the College.]] Since there is no agreement in the College, we are launching a second round of voting. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 9 were for, against the four were abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, 1 against, there are no abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, 3 against, there are no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the report on the work of the Interim Investigation Commission at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to obtain information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy status with the conclusions contained in the Report was adopted. Moving to point 16. Ad. 16. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017, issue 05/1-50-19-273/18, dated 25.01.2018 and Plan of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH 32 as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2018, issue: 05/1-50-13-26-39-12/17, since 21.12.2017
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4148	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4149	It's like the report. Thank you. I'll give the word to the Reporter if he's present. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's like the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, so I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to a plea. First we vote on the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present – 7 are for, against 3 delegates and 1 is retained. From the Federation of BiH – 6 for, against no one, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, against 3, there are no abstentions. There's a general majority but there's no entity. Given that Mr. Softić is not there, we cannot hold consultations in the College, so we will leave the second round of voting for the next session. We're going to work on the next item of the agenda, that's point 17, Ad. 17. Proposal for a resolution of the Deputy Director of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency – Proposer: Commission for the Monitoring of Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, No: 05/8-34-1-627/18, of 06.03.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4155	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4156	It's like the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We now move to a statement by voting on granting consent to ratification of agreements, protocols and amendments to the agreements referred to in points 18 to 23, including item 23 of the agenda, but excluding item 19 of the agenda whose title I have announced. Please initiate the vote. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, 12 were in favour. From the Federation of BiH 8 for, from Republika Srpska 4 for. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we have agreed to ratify the agreements, protocols and amendments to the agreements referred to in points 18 to 23, including the 23rd agenda, with the exception of item 19 of the agenda. Moving to point 19, Ad. 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Grants between the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Norway for the promotion of women's security and response to gender-based discrimination and violence in BiH (BHZ-16-0004), issue: 01,02-05-2-557/18, since 21.02.2018 You have received a report from the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications to the House of Peoples. I give my word to Mr Sead Kadić, the first Deputy Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications, if he wishes. Sead
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4158	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4159	It's like the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on granting consent to ratifying the Agreement on Grants between the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Norway to improve women's security and to respond to gender-based discrimination and violence in BiH. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present – 8 were for, 4 were against, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against, no one, abstentioned, from Republika Srpska – there is no one for, 4 against, abstentions. There's a general majority but there's no entity majority. Accordingly, we must leave this item on the agenda for the next session because we are not complete when it comes to the House of Nations' composition so that we can plead qualified on this point. We're going to work at 24th, Ad. 24. Proposal for the completion of the delegation, Mario Karamatić, issue: 01-50-1-15-591/18, since 21.03.2018 You have received the proposal for the conclusion of delegate Mario Karamatić. I now give the word to Mr. Mario Karamatić, if he wishes. Please enable the delegate.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4161	Thank you. A little technical service fell asleep as we went quickly, so, here, now I should have said I, so I finally managed to get the answer I asked the secretariat about how the spending control of the funds received by the Foreign Chamber of Commerce for public powers transferred from the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to it and the fact is that since 2013 since the obligation was introduced, it means that by 31.03. The Foreign Chamber of Commerce shall submit a financial report to the Council of Ministers for consideration, and in 2013 they have delivered the last day, meaning the deadline of 31.03, and all these years thereafter have not delivered it, and at the time when the reply was sent, they have not yet been delivered to me for the last year. For the first time believed after all these insistences I had yesterday, a Council meeting of 36 ministers found the Foreign Chamber's Financial Report and apparently someone in the Council of Ministers read the report and returned it to their work. Namely, there are such laptops that, for example, there are 3 million of some marks taken by Bosnia and Herzegovina in the name of public authority exercise, and that's being handed over to the Hypo Bank, but there are no interest money coming in, so the question is someone, who remembered to ask where the money is, they didn't know how to answer, so they were asked to later deliver it. So in addition to this conclusion, here, which I proposed last time, which is, I will read it again for my colleagues – the House of Justice orders the Ministry of Justice that because of the inability to obtain information from the Council of Ministers, and we have not yet received the full information, on the manner and conduct of adequate control over the financial resources created by the VTK in the exercise of public authority, the Administrative Inspectorate in the VTK will determine the legality of the work of the Foreign Chamber, and that the findings of the House will be reported within 30 days. So I'm still insisting on that conclusion. And also, at the last session, I asked the gentlemen of the BiH Institutions Audit Office if they were ever in the Foreign Chamber and did audit work on them? I also propose a conclusion – The House of People requires the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions to carry out an audit of the expenditures of the financial resources of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce within 30 days, because of the obvious shortcomings, and here I have now told you only one segment, in the monitoring and implementation of adequate control of the financial resources carried out by the Foreign Chamber in the exercise of public authority. I think that's how we'd get a full picture, because this is obviously about someone misusing those funds, that he's a former secretary of the Council of Ministers, i.e. The secretariat took the right to seek, believe or not, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce never referred it to the Council of Ministers' agenda. Also, the competent ministry has not implemented what is mandatory by law, and this is about the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, so there was no monitoring of the work on the VTK. In my opinion, here it is at least a matter of shortcomings, here, and I think it would be correct for the competent institutions, in this case, to mean, the BiH Audit Office that has the right to enter there and the Justice Department's administrative inspectorate, to enter there, to finally see what it is there and to deliver the report to us and I hope that I will be wrong then, and that I will not be able to say this again – if I knew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4162	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. I'm opening a debate now. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. We are now moving on to the vote on the proposal for the conclusion of delegate Mario Karamatić. BORIŠA
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4163	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4164	Please repeat the voting procedure at Mr. Čolak's request. Thank you, Mrs. Džambas, do you want the vote again? 37 Zdenka
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4165	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-17-0.u4166	Repeat the vote, Mrs. Džambas. Thank you. Out of the 12 delegates present, 11 were for, against no one, one delegate was retained. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against, no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska – 3 for, against none, abstention 1 delegate. There's a general and entity majority. I find that Mr. Mario Karamatić's proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. I'm closing the 37th session. Dear colleagues and fellow delegates on the date of the next session will be notified later, but in any case before 26 April. Session completed at 13:15 p.m.
