ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23864	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 58th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. The session called: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina and media representatives. The session also invites representatives of institutions whose reports and information are on the agenda of today's session, which is the Office for the Audit of Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Parliamentary Military Commissioner of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. We have been informed from the Office of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations that Minister Mirko Šarović will not be present at today's session. BiH Civilian Minister Adil Osmanović's Office has informed us that the minister is unable to attend the session due to the official trip, and BiH Deputy Minister Goran Ćosić will attend the session. Also in the Office of Ministers of Communications and Transport, we have been informed that Minister Ismir Jusko will not be present at today's session. The absence from the session was justified by representative Monika Tomić. The delays were announced by representatives: Asim Sarajlić, Željko Komšić and Momčilo Novaković. According to the Office's data, 37 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in the call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are sorted by the order of arrival, and the representatives will present them in this order. Now we start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23865	I thank the chairman. The issue was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, a third attempt, so the status of the preparation of responses and requested materials, an emphasis on "the requested materials", from my parliamentary issue since 28.07.2017, thus about seven, eight months ago. Since 28th of last year, I have asked for all the conclusions from all the sessions that discussed the issues concerning the allegations, not to repeat now, and the stenograms from all the sessions that discussed it. I've only been given an answer from Minister Bevanda about some of the issues that concern my question, but I haven't received these materials. And I am asking President Zvizdić a question about the status of the preparation of these materials and when I can expect to get it. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23866	Thank you. The answer, Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23867	Thank you very much. I welcome the respected leadership of the House of Representatives, as well as the honourable representatives and MPs, my colleagues in the Council of Ministers, media representatives, I certainly welcome all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are following this session. As for, of course, the materials requested by the esteemed representative are all public, transparent and can be obtained. And if there's some part of the material that you didn't get we'll, of course, order those institutions that need to prepare it to deliver it to you immediately. And as for the concrete answer to your question, I have nothing special to add to the written response you have already received from the Minister of Finance and Treasury, Mr Bevanda. Therefore, as regards the Directorate for indirect taxation, i.e. the Management Board of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, the Council of Ministers concluded that all issues which could be related to the exemption from the application of Article 39 would be raised. The law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be resolved exclusively through possible amendments and additions to the Law on Payments and Refunds of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, and, if and when this happens, the final word of course will be made by the BiH Parliament. It's a concrete answer to a specific question. As far as other materials are concerned, if there is something that has not been delivered, of course they will be delivered, such as conclusions or notes from the Council of Ministers' session.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23868	I thank the chairman. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23869	I thank the chairman. The chairman twice mentioned on two occasions "as far as other materials are concerned", here is when the chairman and Mr. Mektić finishes, er, I will continue my presentation.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23870	Please, come on, you got the word, you got the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23871	Well, I know, but you can also maintain order.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23872	You're not sure if he can hear you, so be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23873	So the chairman said on two occasions – as far as the other materials are concerned, and thus implies that something was delivered to me. But the fact is, I didn't get any of the material, so no conclusions, no stenogram, absolutely none of the material. And here it is not answered to my question, so – what is the status of the preparation of these materials? Since I've been looking for the materials since I was 28.07, I haven't received a single act, a conclusion, a stenogram, etc. I'm interested in when I get it. And in any case, the finding that these materials are public is not valid, since they cannot be found on any Council of Ministers website, nor by any other method other than that left to us to use our right to parliamentary matters. So I would ask to get all the materials I asked for in the 28th of July, which I have not received since today. Nothing, so there's nothing left but nothing. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23874	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23875	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome you, deputy, colleagues, colleagues, MPs and MPs, the chairman, deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers in the government and all others present. So, I had a question that I wanted to ask at the previous session of the Honorable Council of Ministers Chairman, he was justifiably absent, perhaps it would be good if I had asked the question before handing over the Answer to the Question, but it is still current today. We weren't at that point in opportunity to see the answers to the questionnaire questions. Meanwhile, this, as someone likes to call it, historic act of handing over the Answer to Questionnaire. And today, when the act is over, I am happy to have the opportunity to ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers a simple question, which is contained in the questionnaire, and the question is: How many residents of Bosnia and Herzegovina have you at the head of the Council of Ministers? So, as it was written in the replies to the questionnaire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23876	Thank you. The Council of Ministers shall be chaired by a reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23877	I thank you for asking. I repeat, the questionnaire is the most significant step of Bosnia and Herzegovina in its European history and it is indeed a historic event. Since Bosnia and Herzegovina has in general decided to go through European integration, this is the most complex and comprehensive and most important act that Bosnia and Herzegovina has handed over to the European Union, or the European Commission, an act that will lead it to the stage of candidate status that will fully open new chapters between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina and permanently and irrevocably place Bosnia and Herzegovina on the rails leading to membership in the European Union. That is why it is the most important act that we have waited for for a long time because Bosnia and Herzegovina for eight years, at the time of the party's leadership and party representatives sitting here, was in a kind of blockade of the European road, so nothing has been done on the European path and everything that has been done has been done at the time of the Council of Ministers of BiH, which I am chairing, and we are extremely proud of. As far as your question is concerned, we will forward the question to the Statistics Agency because there is no such question in the European Commission's questionnaire on Bosnia and Herzegovina. Neither has any question been formulated in such a way and Bosnia and Herzegovina has answered such a question that does not exist at all in the questionnaire.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23878	Thank you. Representative's comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23879	As usual, the chairman of the Council of Ministers responded to everything I did not ask him. So I haven't asked you for candidate status since it's already obvious that during your term of office we won't get candidate status, even though you announced it. The second thing, you've shown an envious ignorance of the subject that you're most involved in in the media, which is Questionnaire. It's not true there's no such question in the questionnaire. Page 2,039, among the political criteria, so what you adopted, among other things gives answers to the number of residents in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is a small problem that on the same page in the Answers you adopted at the Council of Ministers, you listed two data, one that Bosnia and Herzegovina has three thousand, 3.531.159(?) The inhabitants, and then at the bottom of the page, have 3,473,078 residents. So not only are you wrong when you say you're not You had that question, which I think is defeating that you're saying it like that, rather than sending two different numbers. [[the speaker is warned on time]] We as a state Parliament deserve the chairman of the Council of Ministers to tell us how many residents there are here, not to confuse the public, because this is now available on the website of the Directorate for European Integration. So this everyone can read This historic act of yours will end by being [[the speaker is warned on time]] The people of Brussels say: "Bog, how many people do you have, you have sent two numbers, we will not round up a), b), c". [[the speaker is warned on time]] And here I asked you that, and I'm asking you in writing now that you've just cleared up that this question exists and that you've answered it, to tell me what the exact number is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23880	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Salki Sokolović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23881	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome you, the leadership, and everyone present in the O.R. My question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which I asked last time, here I repeat, regarding the procurement process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, the Office for Auditing Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions conducted an Impact Report on the subject – The Timeliness of Public Procurement Procedures in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. The audit was carried out with a view to establishing delays in public procurement procedures for Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in relation to prescribed and established deadlines, and to point out the main causes leading to the untimely implementation of the public procurement procedure in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The audit showed that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not always take adequate and timely activities to ensure that public procurement is carried out in good time, which is why most institutions have a delay in carrying out the procurement process. This leads to the illegal extension of the contract with existing suppliers, and in some cases to the loss of 5 appropriations for the purchase of the necessary goods, services and works, which also means inefficient management of the budget, as it could have been used to meet other needs in the institutions, as well as the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition, data suggest that nearly 60% of public procurement procedures were launched after scheduled deadlines. My question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, as the most responsible in the work of the Council of Ministers, is – When will the Council of Ministers set up a monitoring and reporting system on planned and implemented public procurement, the reasons for not implementing or delaying public procurement in order to strengthen the responsibility of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and whether the Council of Ministers intends to consider increasing responsibility and establishing a system of sanctioning management of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in the event of a long-standing failure to implement public procurement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23882	I thank you for your response, the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23883	Thank you very much. I still really must say that it is not until the end correct not to allow members of the Council of Ministers to comment on our question again, because these repeated comments usually bring out particularly rigid things, false or co-evaluations, as Mr Magazinović has now done, which is everything he has said, which he has now said in response to my question, does not correspond with the truth, does not correspond with the truth. As for the answer to Mr Sokolović's question, he is next, the Council of Ministers tasked the Agency for Public Procurement at its meeting in December 2017 to access the implementation of the recommendations of the Impact Review Report. Accordingly, the Public Procurement Agency of BiH is obliged to draw up and submit a report within six months on the implementation of the impact review recommendations on the subject – the timelyity of public procurement procedures in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. With regard to this, the Public Procurement Agency has, in principle, proposed amendments and additions to the Law which provide for the obligation for all administrative organisations, which now does not exist, to publish their procurement plans on the portal of the Public Procurement Agency, as well as the obligation to publish the contract and its realisation on the portal itself. It is proposed that, of course, the criminal liability for administrative organisations as legal entities, as well as for the responsible persons of an administrative organisation who do not comply with that provision. At this point, it is only a voluntary basis that any administrative organisation can publish its procurement plan on the portal of the Public Procurement Agency, and through monitoring itself it is planned to ask the institutions which were subject to the audit to make their data on the realisation of the contract for 2017 delivery to be an integrated monitoring report for 2017. So far, the Public Procurement Agency has not been able to do so because under the applicable Public Procurement Act, the administrative organisation is obliged only to publish a procurement plan on its website no later than 60 days from the date of adoption of the budget. Therefore, the amendments and additions to the Law itself will allow exactly what you are talking about, to be they publish in an integrated manner public procurement plans, but also make it very clear that the powers for individuals and those administrative organisations that do not publish their procurement plan or which do not implement their procurement plan within the scheduled time limits. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 6
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23884	Thank you. Representative's comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23885	Thank you, Chairman, but I have something to say. I don't know if this is a European practice, here we're all talking about entering Europe, but I do know that our practice is that over 40% of public procurement is launched after the end of the previous contract and that, for these reasons, procurement is done in a way that extends the existing contract, which is contrary to the Public Procurement Act. And I'm sure it's a place where corruption and crime reign, and that's very important to get rid of. For this reason, I have asked this question, not only, so how much will we be able to follow the process of realising public procurement through the publication of the public procurement plan, but it is questionable that someone in this country who receives the salary is engaged in reducing this percentage here of corrupt and criminal acts of the sea. And, behold, I once again appeal to the Council of Ministers, I understand what the chairman said, that this problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina is being paid attention. For that reason, I asked this question, not to harass someone, but to say that there is a problem, that we do not solve it and that in the next period, here we are through the publication. Is it? This is the way we have to start solving things. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23886	Thank you. I give my word to Agent Denis Bećirović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23887	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. The fundamental principle I am handling is the principle of equality for all citizens and peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, no less or less, for all people in this country and throughout the territory of this country of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this sense, I ask again today – Who exactly blocks the signing of a contract between the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Islamic Community when we have almost ten years and more signed such a contract with the Catholic Church and the Serbian Orthodox Church? For four years, I have been running for this issue here at Parliament's meetings, for four years there is no right answer to that question. I must say, when I asked in the last session that there was a public storm after that, there was almost no political party that didn't engage in this issue, everyone said it would solve it, etc. I think in the first step, we need to know the full truth, and that's why I repeat that question today. I ask the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, although answers are normally given by the Minister of Human Rights. I don't have a problem with that because I assume that's what the BiH Council of Ministers agreed on. But I have to say why I repeat the question. At the last session, we received a reply from the minister, then one member of the presidency, specifically Dragan Čović, said it was not true. So it was not 24 hours that another member of the presidency Mladen Ivanić publicly boasted on the media that he was the one blocking it Imagine him boasting about those things. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I think it's about time the public found out what's full of truth about it. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23888	Thank you. The answer, Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23889	So I also fully share the principle that at the beginning of my exposure to the set answer(?) said Honorable representative Bećirović, which is to advocate, and so should all, for the equality and equality of all peoples and citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And here, this is another issue that has been raised with great concern, and virtually for ten years nothing has been done on this issue and the real question that citizens expect is why the treaty with the Islamic community has not been resolved, drafted and adopted at the same time as other religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and why this issue had to wait for this Council of Ministers of BiH. However, we have taken this issue very seriously because of this principle that everyone should have equal treatment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have seriously considered the text of the treaty, in particular its contents, all aspects concerning specific matters related to religious, religious and other rituals related to the Islamic community, and after a very serious consideration, because I have considered the contract in two or three steps, the BiH Council of Ministers has adopted the proposal for a basic agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Islamic Community in Bosnia and Herzegovina for several months after our appointment, and it was delivered to the BiH Presidency on 22 October 2015 in the follow-up procedure. Everything, all the other questions or questions you ask is actually a question that should be addressed to the BiH presidency, it is authorised to complete this procedure. You, of course. You have the right to ask the members of the Bureau. [[the speaker is warned on time]] As far as I know, they have been regularly invited to Parliament's meetings, so the right address for your answer is actually the BiH Presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23890	Thank you. Representative's comment. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23891	I must say that this part of the procedure relating to the BiH Council of Ministers was also known to me as, I believe, and a good part of the MPs here. Our idea was that the Council of Ministers, including the chairman of the Council of Ministers in communication with members of the Bureau, finally provide the correct answer to this question. Unfortunately, compared to last session, 15 days ago, today we received an answer that speaks even less than that of 15 days ago. Basically, we still don't have a clear answer to exactly who's blocking it, who's blocking it and why it's blocking it. I will therefore ask you to send me this answer to the parliamentary question in writing as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23892	Thank you, Mr. Word. I'm giving counsel to Senad Šepić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23893	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. 8 My question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers – What has the BiH Council of Ministers done on its own and in coordination with other relevant institutions in particular in the field of strategic planning to address flood and glider risks over the past four years? How many protective dams and walls have been built at risk covered areas, and how much is Bosnia and Herzegovina in the event of a re-play of 2014, during a period of heavy spring rains, generally ready to react in a timely and effective manner to such developments in order to reduce the catastrophic consequences of citizens, infrastructure, economic and natural resources? So, a brief explanation: four years ago we witnessed a difficult situation here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we had a country affected by large floods, rinks, both entities were then and the entire state were in a state of natural disaster. The damage we had then was estimated somewhere at approximately 3.5 billion KM. Meanwhile, the competent institutions had an obligation to do a part of the job in which the assessment based on the Flood Risk Assessment Study and the Home Sector Slide in Bosnia and Herzegovina would make certain plans for what could possibly be done, especially in those areas that the Risk Assessment Study identified as particularly vulnerable. So, somewhere around here, it's about a space that covers about 300,000 people, and that's why it's my question -- what do we have at this point when it comes to competent institutions, and what could we possibly expect in case of a replay?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23894	Thank you. Answer, Minister of Security. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23895	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Members of the College, the Honorable MPs. It is important here to note that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Framework Law on Protection and Rescue prescribes the exact competences of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions in the field of protection and rescue. I can also say that, under this Law, entities and Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina, within their competences in the field of protection and disaster rescue are regulated, planned, trained, organised, funded and implemented in the area of protection and rescue from disasters, and that institutions, Council of Ministers, i.e. the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security of BiH have a decision, according to the Law, here in terms of coordination, drawing up a risk assessment, etc. So, we at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina can neither, nor have the resources, nor build, nor finance, nor plan to build, but we have made a plan of risk of natural and other disasters based on which civil protection of entities and Brcko District can now, at the risk of these assessments from floods, fires, slides and all that, can predict and plan financial resources and build and all necessary infrastructure facilities to save and protect against natural disasters. Given that time is limited to two minutes I have a response here to what the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have done within their jurisdiction, but the answer is on five sides, I would ask you to allow me to deliver this in writing to the MP, all with a detailed explanation and all that the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security has done over the past four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23896	Thank you. Advocacy comment here, MP. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23897	Well, I can imagine now, let's say, what it's like for people who listen to us when they listen to Secretary Mektić's response. With all due respect, the minister, now people, and here I am among them, we can further be concerned about any problems that might happen in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know if you have at all, do you have any information at all, therefore, about the current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and possible, given that we have again huge amounts of snow, water, etc. about some possible problems that may occur. So, you answer to us here that the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of the Presidency, this state here, therefore, is just coordinating something here. But you didn't say anything about what you co-ordinated. So, according to the Study, it is clear that the competences of the competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been defined and invited to develop an early warning system, as well as flood preparedness plans, to regulate land use, to build firewalls and dams, to comply and implement laws on spatial planning and construction and geological research in entities and in the whole state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You have this capacity to coordinate it, you have this capacity to put pressure on these institutions to do it, you end up having an obligation to inform us here what we are as institutions and as a state we have in that sense. That's why, given that my principle of running the principle of serving people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and solving their real and everyday problems and security, here, given that time is running out, I ask you and submit an additional initiative based on this issue, here I will read that answer you have on page five, that you, at the first next meeting of the Council of Ministers, will therefore urgently draw up the information And let the public know what we have when it comes to establishing an early warning system and preparedness plans. [[the speaker is warned on time]] possible floods and slides in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, please deliver this at the first next session within seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23898	Thank you. I give my word to legislators Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23899	I thank you, Your Honor, the President. My question was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić, and it refers to the construction of the border crossing at the Bratunac-Ljubovija Bridge. Namely, the Bridge Construction Agreement was concluded in 2015. Based on this, the Republic of Serbia has invested around 11 million marks in the equivalent of building a bridge, the Republika Srpska government has allocated 750,000 marks to expropriate land and access roads and the Council of Ministers through a clearing debt, through the conclusion, has provided funds from the clearing debt and capital investments. To date, however, no tender has been called for the construction of the border crossing, which is the obligation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I am interested – When will the tender be called? Why was there even a delay in signing an agreement with the Republic of Serbia on border crossings between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, which is a prerequisite for entering a project to build a border crossing?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23900	Thank you. 10 Answers, chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23901	Thanks for asking. In fact, a very current topic around which we have a lot of disinformation in public space. And, here, if my answer is half a minute or a minute longer, I apologize to you in advance because I think it's important to clarify this question and present the relevant and accurate facts. As the distinguished representative said, in connection with the construction of a bridge, terminal and customs crossing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, Bratunac-Ljubovica, obligations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia have been kind of shared. Serbia has taken over the construction of the bridge, and Bosnia and Herzegovina has taken over the creation and adoption of an agreement on establishing a new border crossing and construction, of course, of the accompanying terminals with the fully needed infrastructure. For this, the BiH Council of Ministers' Decision approving a multi-annual project, singled out seven million KMs that we received from the clearing and four million KMs from the budget for 2108. So, at this point, we are fully available with 11 million KM, about that much will ultimately be Serbia's investment and about 800,000 marks will be invested by the Republika Srpska government on the issue of solving property and legal relations, i.e. building access routes. The reason why it does not access the start of the construction of the terminal itself is that no contract has yet been reached between the Directorate for indirect taxation and the Ministry of Transport and the links between the Republika Srpska Government, which would completely resolve property-legal relations and all necessary property-legislative issues so that the Directorate for indirect taxation could go into the process of obtaining a building permit, tendering procedure and the procedure for building a terminal which will, of course, have a complex infrastructure and all the accompanying elements. As far as the agreement itself is concerned, I must say that the Ministry of Transport and Communications has done its job correctly, but the bottom line is that despite the more urgentities sent by the BiH Ministry of Security to the competent institutions in the Serbian Government on the appointment of members within the Commission who will finally work on the agreement on the categorisation of the border crossing, we did not get an adequate and timely response. And I have contacted the important Serbian prime minister these days, of course they were members of the presidency and President Vučić, and I think this issue will now be further accelerated. We want it to be a border crossing for people and goods, i.e. for the control of passengers and goods, which will have all other elements, from phytosanitary to all other inspections, and to be a truly real interstate, international transition between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia. So, quite responsibly, I claim that there is no part of the procedure or process in which the Council of Ministers or any institutions from the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina was a narrow throat or an obstacle to this process Our commitment is clear, which is why we immediately allocated the necessary funds, the agreement is ours, the text of the agreement is ready, as soon as we get the members of the group in front of the Serbian government, we will end the issue of categorisation of the transition itself. [[the speaker is warned on time]] As soon as we get confirmation from the Ministry of Traffic and Communications from Republika Srpska, that we are not now entering into the details which, behold, I know from Article 7 and from the contract itself, as soon as they are resolved, so these property-legal relations, as soon as the full capacity of the land which will be guaranteed by the Indirect Taxation Authority will be put into motion in tender and terminal construction procedures.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23902	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23903	I thank the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers. I will certainly request a more comprehensive answer from the Directorate for indirect taxation. It's good that some things are resolved because there's a lot of speculation and untrueness. Since I come from that area I know that the real problem was property-legal relations that weren't up to back, maybe, a month, two solved, and now there's some problem with the Ministry of Traffic, I don't know what nature. But here I am, pleased to see the news that on March 1st, the Serbian government adopted a conclusion establishing the basis for negotiating with Bosnia and Herzegovina on border crossings. It is some seasonal border crossings, according to the Serbian government and this border crossing of Ljubovija-Bratunac. I have to say that I was surprised that only now the basis was established, I think all of this could have been faster and more effective, but here I appreciate that President Zvizdić will also use his authority and in contacts with the Serbian government to speed up this whole process and business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23904	Thank you. I give the word to MPs Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23905	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the chair, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, media representatives. My question is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and it says – When will the Council of Ministers impose a ban or tax on the export of troops, heating and cut-off buildings, or wooden varieties? In a country rich in forests, Bosnian-Herzegovina producers are struggling in their country to get raw materials and thus to get cheaper production and to become more competitive on the foreign market. The involvement of the Council of Ministers in terms of making such a decision would help BiH furniture producers in this very affirmative manufacturing business branch, which could also be one of the strategic branches for Bosnia and Herzegovina to continue their work without great difficulty, to increase exports and the number of employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's wood industry.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23906	Thank you. Answer. No ministers, no Council of Ministers? Here's a comment. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23907	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I'll just make an extra comment. After Republika Srpska banned the exports of troops from state or private property even in the Federation of BiH, another BH entity finally did so. In Republika Srpska, they did so to end the smuggling that has left millions of KMs behind, and their proposal was followed recently by the Federation of BiH government that has adopted a temporary measure of banning the traffic of troops in order to protect the needs of BiH's economy. This measure is unfortunately only applicable until 4 April 2018. According to the president of the Association of Wood Industry 12 and Forestry, Mr Eće, who said the businessmen welcome the adoption of the regulation, but that it is a fundamental problem that it concerns only the export of troops from the Federation of BiH. Businesses in Bosnia and Herzegovina from the wood processing industry are not the problem of trade between entities, but the problem is when raw materials go beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina and they must buy it, Bosnian raw materials are bought from abroad. The entity governments should be instructed under an urgent initiative by the BiH Council of Ministers to ban exports from Bosnia and Herzegovina, rather than prohibiting exports from one unit to another. I expect Mr. Šarović to answer this question by the next session. I want... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23908	Here, I'd like to thank the MPs. Of course, we have business to comment on, since you haven't received, your question remains for the next session. I give my word to agent Hazim Rančić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23909	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, media representatives. My question is for the defence minister, the respected Mrs. Pendeš – Have you considered the report or the individual information of the parliamentary military commissioner and have you taken steps towards those who led to violations of the human rights of soldiers, officers, officers, cadets, therefore persons in the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23910	Thank you. Answer, Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23911	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The parliamentary military commissioner's report sublimes the work and conduct of the military commissioner's office. As stated in the report itself, the Ministry of Defence provided answers to the applications and checks carried out by the Office of the Military Commissioner, and a significant part of the recommendation has already been implemented. It is part of the process of realisation, and where there is a basis for the launch of disciplinary responsibility, in accordance with the competences, measures will be taken and some have already been taken. In part, if there are any systematic irregularities, it will be subject to specific analysis and measures to remove them. However, on some of the issues covered by the Report I would like to highlight the following, the report contains indicators of the number of cases without analysis by species and other indicators which could be used to remove them. In addition, a large number of applications in respect of the exercise of the right to compensation for a separate life have been used without the indicators presented but have sought to demonstrate such a qualification through one example. There has been an observation that the army is constantly eating single and dry food, however, it should be clearly indicated that canned meals, stew, prepared meals, are not dry canned meals but manipulative meals. In the Armed Forces of BiH, twenty places are prepared for food, and in a number of locations, because of a small number of human states, or people in that location, and the distances from the place where food is prepared, manipulative meals are shared above. The current state of supply to fresh heifer, chicken, pigmeat, dried-meat products of the June and pig programme, fresh fruit and vegetables and 13 milk is regularly and continuously, which was also written by the parliamentary military commissioner in one of his reports. It should be stressed that it is not possible that certain locations do not respect normative acts in the area of food of the Armed Forces of BiH solely because of the human factor, do not make up weekly menus according to the diet plan, and that is the issue of resolving through the chain of command. However, it is also necessary to know that the majority of the members are provided for a 6 KM cash compensation instead of a diet, and because of the way individual diet can be talked about the potential effects of such a type of food organisation. Also, as regards comments on the termination of the contract on active military service candidates for military service in the initial act of officers who refer to basic honorary training, the Ministry of Defence has the following position and opinion – candidates in training are a special category of persons at the service in the Armed Forces of BiH whose status has been defined in the amendments and additions to the BiH Armed Forces Act since 2016. The law regulates that military personnel, civilians, cadets, and cadets can be trained at the service of the Armed Forces. An active military person cannot have a status in addition to the status of an active military person... only one of those categories shall have the right and obligations relating to that category and shall be prescribed in advance by those regulations because the status and rights are indicated [[You can't hear the video for a while.]] category differently regulated in the regulations. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The status and rights of candidates in training are regulated by the Military Service Reception Regulation, not by the Department of Defence and Armed Forces Education and Training Regulations. In the case of treatment of the same category of candidates for training under an earlier ad, they were treated in accordance with the applicable Armed Forces Service Act, as the amendments relating to candidates for training came into force immediately before the call for an internal ad in question, which was treated in the Military Commissioner Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23912	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment? You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23913	Thank you very much. I thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Simply, following the work of the parliamentary military commissioner and cooperating with the Ministry, Joint Staff, more or less of the same things are repeated year after year, the same problems with respect to and public procurement, and violations of human rights, the determination of military-recording speciality, the rights to separate life, status issues, acts, etc., etc., we all know this together in the ministry, and the parliamentary military commissioner and the Joint Defence and Security Commission. It's my wish, my intention, I'm asking the Minister of Honor not to be the same thing in '18. A year like '17, '16, '15. And so, backwards, it is necessary, therefore, to start taking steps towards those who lead to these mistakes and to human rights violations within the armed forces and the Ministry of Defence, and certainly, I am sure that both the Defence Commission and the parliamentary military commissioner and the minister with our associates, that we are together the same team and that we are ready to go out in the field, make visits and determine the real situation so that this will not be repeated year after year.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23914	Thank you. 14 I give the word to Jasmin Emrić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23915	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I prepared the question to the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport, and on the basis of one contribution to Unsko-San Canton Television, which I am thanking on this occasion and thanking, as of February 22nd, the current year, which was related to the payment of the eco-test service or the test of exhaust emissions during the technical examination and registration of the vehicle. My question is: Is there a legal collection of eco-test services of 22, 32 and 36 KM in the field of the Federation of BiH during the technical examination of the vehicle, and if such payment is illegal, who is responsible for the same, and what is the Ministry intending to do to stop such illegal activity and sanction the responsible? In the above mentioned TV annex, it is stated that citizens of Unsko-San canton, and I suppose the entire Federation of BiH, instead of 5 KM, as much as the applicable State Regulation on vehicle technical checks should pay for an eco test, this service is paid by 22, 32 or 36 KM, depending on the type of engine of their vehicle. Authorities in the Federation of BiH thus illegally charged 19,400,000 KM in a year's application of the Regulation on the test of motor vehicle exhaust gases in the Federation of BiH is claimed in the TV annex. E, therefore, I took an interest in this subject, I have made an insight into the legal legislation, and I have concluded the following – that the Regulation on the test of engine exhaust gases, eco-test, in the vehicle inspection stations brought by the Federal Transport and Communication Minister, where certain prices for eco-test services amounting to 22, 32 and 36 KM with VAT contrary to the Regulation on vehicle technical checks and amendments and additions to that Regulation by the Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH [[the speaker is warned on time]] where it is determined that the technical examination service for the test of exhaust emissions or eco-test in Bosnia and Herzegovina is 5 KM without VAT. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So I ask the Ministry to respond and explain this state of affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23916	Thank you. The answer is, the minister doesn't have one. Does the representative want to comment? This question would remain for the next session, because there is no minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23917	At the very least, he should have been an authorised representative of the Ministry to answer this question, but I agree that we should repeat the same at the next session, because this situation of things is unsustainable. And I think that lower-level acts of government must be consistent with acts of higher levels of government, especially when citizens are suffering, or when the budget of citizens in this country is clearly affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23918	Thank you. I give my word to MPs Hanka Vajzović. Here you go, MPs. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23919	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I warmly welcome all present. And my question is addressed to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. I'll read it no matter what, here, we find out there's no one from the Ministry. So, since the Ministry of Transport and Communications is extremely irresponsible, superficially, almost ignoring the issues I have referred to so far, I have decided to repeat some of these issues and check from a certain time distance, in some ways, whether any of the issues mentioned in the meantime were done. So, in early July 2017, I asked the following question – Did what, or anything from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, take action on the assets of 1.13 million KM collected from the certification of carriers in the international transport of passengers and goods, which were then blocked in the sub-account of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce? When I asked the question, then I got, more, more than half a year ago, a brief answer. Says – The Ministry has prepared a draft decision on the transfer of funds located in the special account of the Foreign Chamber to the single account of the vault. An opinion shall be obtained in accordance with Article 31. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers and in order to refer to the Council of Ministers for consideration and adoption. That's all they said. Now I ask – What about this draft decision on the transfer of money from the account of the Foreign Chamber to the vault? Second, how long has it been for the past seven and a half months? Has the requested opinion been finally delivered, if the procurement was already in progress half last year, and has this issue ever come to the Council of Ministers for what they say, consideration and adoption? If so, what is the result, is it considered and what is adopted? I further ask – Did the Ministry give, very briefly, consent to a so-called to a non-profit organisation, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, which, to the Foreign Chamber, has transferred public authority to agree on driving orders? [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23920	Thank you. Since we don't have a Minister of Communications and Transport, this issue would go to the next session, too. Do you want to comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23921	I wanted to, because last time I had a question, so the deputy minister, this is really inadmissible, the deputy minister then came out and said that it was a little 24 hours to answer if anything was done about the dispute with the Education Centro in Shiroki Brijeg. They came up with it this time, so they're gone. I don't think there's really any point in this Ministry's behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23922	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the oral question. Before moving to the agenda, I call on parliamentary military commissioner, Mr Boško Šiljegović, to take the oath in accordance with Article 11(3) of the Law on the Parliamentary Military Commissioner. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23924	I'm obliging myself,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23925	I'm obliging myself,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23926	that I will knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23927	that I will knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23928	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23929	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23930	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23931	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23932	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23933	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23934	We're moving on to the agenda. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. The agenda has been downloaded: Point 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the independent and supervisory bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01.02- 02-11752/17, of 14. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (second reading) because the bill was not discussed in the first reading in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Point 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2568/17, of 30. 17 10. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (second reading) because the relevant Joint Committee on Human Rights did not hold a session. The following are added to the agenda: point 3. The request of MPs Mirsad Mešić, Damir Bećirović, Saša Magazinović, Mirsad Đonlagić, Fehim Škaljić, Damir Arnaut and Denis Bećirović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure No: 01-02-1-629/18, of 28.02.2018. Point 4. A request by MP Amir Fazlić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-1-668/18, of 05.03.2018. Point 17. Proposal to clarify the Deputy Director of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency – Proposer: Commission for the Monitoring of the Work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency, issue: 05/8-34-1-627/18, since 06.03.2018; I am opening a debate on the agenda. Representative Safer Demirović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23935	I thank the esteemed chairman and, of course, welcome all my colleagues and colleagues and present in the O.R. Of course, I apologize for vexing you for a little time since I will not speak directly about the agenda, but I would like to inform you of something that is related to the future work of this Parliamentary Assembly. In fact, you all know that certain processes occur in the Tuzla canton area because of the general situation that has arisen with the introduction of the commission into the cantonal organisation of the SDA and some new political options that are in the formation phase where I actively participate. So, I'd like to inform you that I am leaving the SDA Club today at the House of Representatives and that what remains is an independent MP, and I will report to the Honorable College with a written statement in the course of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23936	I apologize but I am obliged to warn, we are at the agenda point – debate on the agenda. So you could have introduced us in another way as appropriate to the Rules of Procedure. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23937	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome all of you and all those present in the O.R., and I'd like to suggest something.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23938	Please. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23939	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23940	May I have your attention, please? Let's have a little consideration for our colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23941	I applied for one problem yesterday at the Extended College, one issue and in agreement with the members of the Extended College, given that there was not enough material to be discussed today on this agenda point, I was free, so I sent a proposal for conclusions on behalf of the SBB Club, and it was the problems of transferring the Bosnia and Herzegovina team to the whole area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in the meantime a number of other issues related to this problem, legal, illegal use of infrastructure, money flows and a number of other things that really deserve this approach. And this proposal concludes that it is up to the Council of Ministers to prepare detailed information for us from the RAC and also from the Competition Council on this matter, so that we can include it in the next session, the agenda as a point for which we will discuss here, and in that sense I have shared with you the proposals, the proposal for this conclusion. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23942	Thank you. Here, given that we no longer have reports, we're closing the debate on the agenda, but I just want to say to my esteemed colleague, Đonlagić. As he said, we discussed this yesterday at a session of the Expansive College and actually agreed that a respected representative would propose or point, however, we now have a business problem. You have suggested in the form of a conclusion, and you know that a business conclusion can go with a certain point of the agenda, so please or we can reshape it so that we can make a statement, that this is kind of a point, but here we understand it because it is definitely due to the supply of some material. Well, here, I give you my word, you want to rephrase, because somehow we can't, we're breaking the Rules of Procedure to put this on the agenda. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, are you looking for a agenda point or something?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23944	Okay. Yesterday, when we spoke, I also said that it would be the agenda point at the next session of Parliament, but during the debate, it was used as if I were proposing as a conclusion. For all of this I have done so, however, it is no problem to intervene in this sense that for the next session, a point under this name should be prepared, to propose a agenda point for the next session. If we have to, if we have to, we'll do it in that sense and we'll correct it, and if we don't, we can, if you accept it like this, as if it were a part of the agenda, I'm happy with that, too. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23945	If we understand each other, it means we're reshaping to be a part of the agenda, but for the next session?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23946	So for the next session, for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23947	For the next session. Then we'll leave, and you'll just reshape as a proposing.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23948	Then I'll refer that proposal to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23949	Yeah. Reform and will be the item of the agenda at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23950	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23951	Thank you. No more reports. I find that the 58th House session has an amended and updated agenda that you have received. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 57th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The request of MPs Mirsad Mešić, Damir Bećirović, Saša Magazinović, Mirsad Đonlagić, Fehim Škaljić, Damir Arnaut and Denis Bećirović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-1-629/18, of 28.02.2018; 4. Request by MP Amir Fazlić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-1-668/18, of 05.03.2018; 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Payments and Receipts Act in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Borjana Kristo, Law number: 01-02-1-205/18, of 18.01.2018. (first reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-476/18, of 13.02.2018. (first reading); 7. Report by the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of Persons Reporting Corruption in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Aleksandra Pandurević, Borjana Krišto and Mirsad Isaković, Law No: 01-02-1-2687/17, of 15.11.2017. (law in second reading); 20 8. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of representative Saša Magazinović to consider the proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, No. 01-02-1-494/18, of 14.02.2018; 9. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Application of Representatives: Mirsad Mešić, Saša Magazinović and Denis Bećirović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, No 01-02-1-507/18, of 15.02.2018; 10. Report from the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Parliamentary Oversight (proposer: Temporary Joint Committee of the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1348/17, of 26.05.2017.; 11. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Efficientness of the preparation of public administration reform projects in BiH" – applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1 162/18, of 12.01.2018; 12. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: ‘Following the implementation of the impact review recommendations’ – applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-165/18, of 15.01.2018; 13. Report on the work of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-14-368/18, since 01.02.2018; 14. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2017, issue: 05/3-50-19-474/18, of 13/02/2018; 15. Information in the field of direct foreign investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina - applicant: Foreign Investment Promotion Agency in BiH, issue: 01-50-1-15-55/17, link: 01-22-2546/17 of 16. 2. Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/70 is amended as follows: (According to the 55th session of the House of Representatives held on 21.12.2017, 17 and 31.01.2018); 16. Proposal for a decision confirming Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency's decision to place active military personnel in the formation of generals at the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-34-1-564/18, since 21.02.2018; 17. Proposal for a resolution of the Deputy Director of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency – Proposer: Committee for the Monitoring of the Work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against Corruption, issue: 05/8-34-1-627/18, dated 06.03.2018; 18. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Supplements to the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, No: 01-02-1-1830/17, of 25.07.2017).; 19. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01,02-02-1-2015/17, of 09.08.2017).; 20. Granting consent to ratify the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, No: 01,02-05-2327/18, of 29.01.2018; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the reading of persons staying without authorisation, No 01,02-05-2-328/18, of 29.01.2018; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol on Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the search for missing persons, No 01,02-05-2-329/18, of 29.01.2018; 23. Granting consent to ratification of Additional Protocol 5 with the Agreement on Change and Accession of the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA 2006), No: 01,02-05-2-330/18, of 29/01/2018; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty establishing a Transport Community between the European Union and the parties signatories from Southeast Europe: the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo, number: 01,02-05-2-331/18, of 29.01.2018; 25. The European Commission, Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Council of Ministers, and Italy, represented by the Regione Emilia-Romagna-Romagna, the managing body for the ‘Interreg V-B Adriatic-Ionian Transnational Cooperation Programme (ADRION)’, number: 01,02-05-2-332/18, of 29.01.2018; 26. Grants of consent for ratification of the Grant No Agreement TF0A4795 (Project of Health Risk Factors) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No: 01,02-05-2-333/18, of 29/012018; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement amending and supplementing the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on International Road Transport of Passengers and Freight, No 01,02-05-2-335/18, of 30.01.2018; 28. Giving consent to ratification of the grant agreement between the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe, issue: 01,02-05-2-336/18, dated 30.01.2018; 29. Giving consent to ratification of the grant agreement between the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe, issue: 01,02-05-2-337/18, dated 30.01.2018; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the grant agreement between the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Norway for the improvement of women's security and response to gender-founded discrimination and violence in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BHZ-16-0004), issue: 01,02-05-2-557/18, since 21.02.2018. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 57th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH You've got the record. Any comments on the record? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to Agents' questions 22
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23954	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Oh, my question was, I was approached by an ex-military person, who had his job internship until '73. A year, since '69. until '73. It came true in the Republic of Slovenia, but then it turned out when it was to be introduced, i.e. it was introduced into retirement law, that according to an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Social Insurance Agreement is an unresolved issue on which these obligations fall until 1 January '73. A year. According to the agreement, it is said, which was concluded in 2008, that after 1 January of '73. Retirement insurance obligations fall under that former country of SFRY whose citizen is a military person. However, the Agreement does not say anything by 1 January of '73. In the year and the man who spoke to me, it is about Mr. Bogoljub Pašalić from Bijeljina, who has been transferred from Slovenia to Bosnia and Herzegovina for years, and they say – no, this is, this right should give you Slovenia until '73. He speaks in Slovenia, they say – no, we do until '73. We only give to our citizens. Obviously, the failures in this Agreement, I do not know how it was resolved between other countries of the former SFRJ, but it is obvious that this Agreement should be launched and I do not know why the Council of Ministers did not in some earlier period, that it is necessary to make some changes to this and supplement 23 of the Social Security Agreement with the Republic of Slovenia. And I expect the Council of Ministers, has already taken action, to hold this as an open issue with Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23955	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23956	As you said, I got the answer, or this isn't the answer to me, this is acting on the conclusions of the House of Representatives. I just want to point out the dynamics of the event, the House of Representatives adopted this, these conclusions and obliged the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security more than a year ago to analyse the harmonisation of legal regulations in the area of cyber security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Council of Ministers appears to have done so in due time, as the accompanying act said that at the 107th session in June, or July last year, this job of the Council of Ministers was completed. However, we as Parliament got this a few days ago, and I came here this morning. I'm just saying, I've been going through the document for a year, and I'm going to be more specific about it, but I want to thank the Council of Ministers and Minister Mektić for this comprehensive response, and, I would say, a more precise analysis of the non-compliance, as the Ministry has also addressed, the legal rules in the area of cybersecurity where it stands, all of Bosnia and Herzegovina's obligations in this area, and it honestly says that most of the things we haven't done. So, I thank you for your response, I point out this illogicality to communicate with the Council of Ministers for six months, or that since July last year it takes more than six or seven months for the document to come to us, and again I will talk about this at the next session when I study the document in detail.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23957	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, comment. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23958	Thank you very much. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and it is related to the construction of the IDDEEA building in Banja Luka. Since there is no present minister, I reserve the right to comment on the issue, uh, the answer I received at the next session is realized.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23959	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23960	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good afternoon, everyone. I welcome everyone present in the hall. So, as I said, maybe last time or some of the previous sessions, I, uh, offered strong discussions and convincing gentleman, fellow Bećirović Denis, and somewhat Damir, I 24 promised to deal with the situation in Tuzla and Tuzla Canton and Tuzla Municipality, so where are they such important officials, their parties, so I got, I sent these questions as you said, I got an answer from the President of the City Council, but I didn't get an answer from Mr. Mayor, I asked him – what is the composition of national employees in, therefore, the administration of Tuzla Municipality? This answer I received can only be commented on by the following, so Mr. Chairman of the Municipal Council told me about what I knew, so there is no city statute, use, therefore, the Statute of the Municipality. You know how they choose in local communities? So the City Council delegates its people to party proposals in local communities so that there is no choice in local communities at all, it is a model, therefore, democracy. It would probably be tomorrow if the civil type of democracy in the Federation or in Bosnia and Herzegovina were to run for the president of the Municipal Council in Široki Brijeg in that way. So there's no elections at all, there's no statutes for years, until I get another answer, so what's the composition of the administration, let's see how that constitutionality is respected there. Of course I will also ask Mr. Bećirović – how is the Serbian language and Croatian taught there, how is it equal? So maybe one point we'll suggest, let's see how it works when the civil parties, therefore, build up the state as it is, as they imagine it, and when others oppose it. Of course, if I'm not satisfied with this answer, first of all, I'm not satisfied with the situation. Imagine, for example, that in local communities where the majority of the animals are sent to the envoys in front of the City Council who do not live there, and imagine, of course, members of the SDP. So, get into those answers of his, and you'll see the model of how the gentlemen do it, it's very interesting. So it would probably be a good model for both election law and election in the House of Peoples, so, but we'll have more fun with this question. So, I'm not happy with the answer, I'm waiting for the second one, so I'm going to continue this topic to just, uh, see what it looks like, maybe it's a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23961	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul. You have the word, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23962	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23963	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23964	Guests at today's session, I warmly welcome you all. I didn't get an answer to any of the questions, as the chairman read and read, so I've been using this agenda point to say that I haven't been getting answers to questions for a long time. Namely, I have four questions I haven't received an answer to, and the youngest, so to speak, the question is almost six months old. The institutions I do not get an answer from are two, the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. I'm not as persistent as some colleagues to repeat my questions, so because of this, because of this silence of the administration and I've given up on further questions, but I'm using this address to insist that I get answers to the 25 questions I asked. Because of my failure to answer, in some ways, I doubt that my questions may be inappropriate or stupid, at least one saying that there are no stupid questions but perhaps just stupid answers. However, I would like to get answers to these questions, even if they were very brief and said that my question cannot be answered or that it does not deserve an answer. And in this way I would be, in a certain way, satisfied, actually more satisfied than in a situation where, according to me, here in some way, the administration's silence is being carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23965	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić. You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23966	Thank you very much. Well, I have a comment on this proposal for an initiative to draft a state-run award law in the field of education for students and their teachers. I received an answer that the Federal Ministry is in agreement, that all cantonal ministries in the Federation of BiH are in agreement. So, we only have a position, here, from the Ministry of Education of Republika Srpska, in which they say they have considered the initiative and given the constitutional authority in the field of education that it is unacceptable for them. And then based on this, the Department of Civil Affairs says it can't realize this initiative of mine. And, therefore, I'm here to say that, in that sense, an unacceptable relationship between the Ministry of Civil Affairs is unacceptable to me. We now have framework laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning education, we have the Law on primary, secondary, er, pre-school, primary, secondary, high education, we have institutions that are at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina with directly defined competences, issues of recognition of documents in the field of education, etc. So one like that, I would say, completely irrational, completely, as I would say, one unreal, one bad decision and the attitude that came from the Ministry of Republika Srpska should not take it as some sort of argument of its own that it does nothing, but I want to call them and repeat the initiative again, that they are making a proposal for this framework law on the state award, to be instructed by the Conference of Education Ministers, there is a minister from Republika Srpska entity. I think both the public and students, teachers, people living in Republika Srpska's entity should hear what their ministers, for some of these completely irrational reasons, refuse to have one such shift in the field of education. And when the Ministry of Civil Affairs is prepared, they should remain as they are, and they will be respected until the end, so when one such framework law is prepared, I believe that by then some of them, as I would say, will be completely irrational approaches by the entity ministry, that they too will in some way lie down and that we will be in a position to make a step that nobody takes, and it is good for everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23967	Thank you. Representative Hanka Vajzović. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23968	Thank you, Chairman. 26 I got the answer, the question was about building the Neum-Stolac road, where I put four sub-questions, and I'm actually using myself more to point out not some phenomena. So, I asked – why haven't the papers started yet? And it's a good thing I asked, for a short time after that, the authorities called to get the works started. I asked – how long did this decade-long project really take place? The answer was quite confusing, the lot of this, the lot of the one, the way it goes, practically when you look at a mile of it doesn't build up annually, manually that the locals are working, I guess they'd be done by now. The question was – Kaće it be over? They say four years from now. For four years that lot like this or like that, it's moving from Neum, it's all kind of like pre-election asphalting, and I'm afraid it won't be the way the SDP's Minister's 2014 promised, that, you know, that's how it usually works when you ask, then the problems are, he says -- this is expensive and so, complex work, and then they tell you, it's going to be this, it's a little expropriation, and in the end, but when it's going to be wonderful to everyone, we can now-now get to the sea and the usual fits. I finally asked who was obstructing this project. And I have to remind you of the fact that it's confusing, in fact, that who is actually the Minister of Transport and Communications in the Federation, who is the Director of the Federation Road, is simply incredibly expected to obstruct, and yet someone is obstructing. How can you tell from the answer to this that I was right when I asked, that no one will tell me who's obstructing. That's it, I just wanted to point out the phenomena that it's not going to be like this for four years will still be waiting to go so slowly to our only city at sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23969	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut. You have the word, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23970	Thank you. Here, in line with the Rules of Procedure, I point out that I am not satisfied with the answer I received from the Ministry of Finance and I am announcing an additional parliamentary question. But here by the time it arrives, I remind you that I asked this question on 18th of last year. I got a squire answer, but I didn't get the documents from Minister Bevanda and I'm asking for all copies of all the conclusions and all the stenograms from the 86th and 87th Council of Ministers' sessions. I hope I get that as soon as I can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23971	Thank you. With this, we exhausted our comments on the answers received. Before I move to item 3 on the agenda, I shall, in accordance with point (f) of Article 27, shorten the debate by all remaining points to 5 minutes. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. The request of MPs Mirsad Mešić, Damir Bećirović, Saša Magazinović, Mirsad Đonlagić, Fehim Škaljić, Damir Arnaut and Denis Bećirović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-1-629/18, of 28.02.2018. 27 The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 05.03.2018. I'm opening a debate on the procedure of this law. Representative Mirsad Mešić, debate. Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23973	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. The reason why a group of MPs signed are seeking an emergency procedure of this law is contained in the fact that we delivered this Law to all political parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina three or four months ago and in an individual conversation with all of them we received some agreement that it could pass. It is a law that does not threaten talks on changes to the election law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I am used to calling on colleagues to support the emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23974	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23975	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, now that it's a procedure, I'm not going to pass this law at all, but especially in a way that it's in a hurry. In fact, we have a similar bill, although it applies in the very way, the voting principle of another group of colleagues, of which we have asked the Constitutional Commission, if I am not mistaken, to get an opinion from the Central Election Commission. Of course, that's what it's supposed to be for. I agree with you, and I accept what Mr. Mešić said, that this was somehow offered to colleagues to carry out their insights, to see, etc., but I am talking about procedure, so there are too many articles here. On the other hand, our research sector has carried out a certain check when it comes to this other law which... which refers not to the same but similar subject, which is the introduction of electronic devices into the voting process and you can see, therefore, that in a number of countries you even have prohibitions by the Constitutional Court of Use of such instruments, for example in Germany. So there's a lot of open questions, like, In Article 4, I have to say this, it is about procedure, but let's say when it's repeated, if something's wrong, it's repeated in the Central Election Commission, I'd say. He requested that the recount be members of the electoral committee to which it relates. Or it says in Article 19. – that the electoral board based on the statements from... scanners and counting, therefore, is somehow preferring this scan and I am not at all sure whether it hurts, therefore, the secrecy of the vote. You know what it means to scan a ballot when a man votes, so I don't know how his colleagues thought it, but there's too much dilemma. At the very least, I can't accept an emergency procedure. Of course, I probably won't be able to take this kind of solution at all, but I suggest this isn't done by haste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23976	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović. Here you go, counsel. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23977	...in the voting process is something that will come to me whether we want it or not, because in this country electoral engineering through the direct theft of votes is amazing and we will have to find a way to minimise it. Whether there are members of the Election, by chance, so they were provided one example, 11 full-time family members in one polling post, one of them is a candidate for one level, at the end of the vote, the candidate in the polling post has only one vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, no, you know exactly what it's about, you know exactly what it's about. It's just amazing that we have invalid ballots in individual polling stations and over 20%. How is that possible? So let's not run away from the truth, let's not close our eyes to what's spread out and we all see it being stolen. This is a country where this kind of corruption, or translated into our own language, has been developed to the limit. But of course, when we discuss the law, we will show photos of rings, photographs of watches, photographs, how it works. We need to access that segmental bar as soon as possible. And I support and support emergency procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23979	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Mešić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23980	Madam Chairman, I refer to Mr. Nikola Lovrinović misquote, who, while in violation of the, uh, agenda, spoke of the metrics of this Law. However, the ballot doesn't have a name and name, so we're not just talking about it, and we're just doing the right information to the public, so we can't reveal the identity of whoever voted.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23981	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23982	Here, I, the chairman, will rule out the application for discussion, because it can all stop in two minutes. So I also refer to the wrong quote of my colleague Lovrinović. So, first of all, to say that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopts laws, not the Central Election Commission, it implements them. And I see from these latest activities that involve some of your senior officials, which will only be discussed in public, that you have replaced it a little bit, that the Central Election Commission should conduct whole elections, and even a few months before it announces the election results. But we'll talk about that second time. 29 As far as this Law is concerned, this is an opportunity for us to plead within the House of Representatives for and against retrograde processes that are more than present in the election cycle. You know very well that there are political parties that open at 7:00 a.m. when the polls have 20,000 votes already recorded. So this is one of the laws that tries to reduce this negative effect, I can't say to prevent, because there are many, many, and very creative, thieves in our country. We can scan the ballot when it's, when we open up the metric story, you'll see that you don't need to be afraid of technology, it's no big deal, and there's a very good practice in place for such countries as we are and the intention is, therefore, that instead of countering the results, voters determine the results. And I sincerely hope we don't mind that everyone's voice finally being recorded here the way a man voted, not the way some party thinks he should vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23983	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23984	So, both colleagues, in a way, I'll answer. I asked for the opinion of the Central Election Commission because this is the procedure that should be put in place, so we should introduce the procedure, as I did with a previous proposal, so I was saying, you didn't follow well, so I didn't say that they were passing the law, but of course we're passing the law, except when it should be passed in the Federal Parliament, when you say so, right? The second thing, so when you scan the ballot, so at which point, the voter must be called, but what you say is the metric. Therefore, in my view it is no longer the secret of voting, you cannot convince me, the voter must come, present himself, give a ID card and then go to the vote. So after that, when do you scan? When he finishes his vote, so there is no record of who he was, so don't be ridiculous. I don't know, I mean, but we'll talk about it if it's in the process. And on the other hand, when you talk about stealing votes, so how much does it mean since 2001, from that cycle after that, then one fifteen years is stolen from a whole nation to choose their representatives in the House of Peoples. So it's a far more important question than what you're dealing with, so you can solve it in another way, there's a method, so that committees are made available, etc. And counting, so you say in Article 19. – the electoral committee shall, on the basis of copies from the optical scanner, determine the results of the vote. Well, it can't be, it has to be counted, so you might be able to combine, but that's exactly what you're saying is simply impossible mathematics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23985	Thank you, my lady. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23986	I'd rather call it a brief clarification. The total cost of costing what we're talking about is about the ego paid... when you pay them what they count, or when they furniture your results. It's about the egal, that price of equipment. And secondly, the scan takes place after the vote, pulling out one ticket at a time and inserting into what we now call a scanner, which 30 directly records what the voter gave, not the name and last name, but the data sheet, and not the moment you vote, so as soon as you start scanning. So it's a famous, famous procedure and practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23987	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23988	Thank you. Correction of my colleague Lovrinović's wrong quote. So, if Col. Lovrinović read the Bill's proposal in Article 19 clearly stands – if the optical scan and counting of ballots are carried out at the polling post, the voter's committee starts to determine the results of the vote after the voting process is completed and the voter's closure is closed. And that's what the election board is doing right now, except it's doing it manually. And if the election board were to count the ballots after the voter finished his vote, then the current system would know what it was like to vote when someone delivered the vote. So here, the system is identical, people put their ballots in a box, after closing the polling station, as the bill says, is accessing the scan of these ballots. And you, when you have one larger number in the box, you can't determine who voted, nor can you tie the voters' identity to an individual ballot. Therefore, in this segment it is not clear to me that my colleague Lovrinović did not read this and why he even thinks that the counting process would be different from the current counting process in terms of when these ballots are numbered. So the only thing that changes is the process of processing these ballots, it's not going to be counted by hand, it's going to be counted by the scanner.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23989	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23990	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, if there is nothing else here in Parliament, it has been said that the people's will is respected until seven, and that what is after seven o'clock in the evening, when the polls are closed, determines what they will or will be ruled on in Bosnia and Herzegovina after the next four years. This is not made up in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is the use of something to prevent what comes after seven hours, to prevent abuses and to respect the people's will as much as possible, or the will of voters. And I don't see any reason for anyone in this room to mind it, but on the contrary, I think and I'm convinced that it should answer to all of us. And this process that is now proposed in no way affects me, I am sorry that this does not interest my colleague, Bosić, and my colleague, Šefik Džaferović, but I respect them, when they speak and listen very carefully to what they say, but I do not think that everything that follows and the rules are numbered, it has nothing to do with this, but it will, on the contrary, be and as principled and consistent as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23991	Thank you. 31 Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23992	I do apologize, but in some ways we have entered part of the measure of the law, but it is important, therefore, whether the procedure is possible and necessary in this way. So now it won't just matter who's counting, but now it'll just matter who's going to be behind the scanner and who's actually going to operate on that machine and it's going to matter, so what's going to scan from the box. So, you guys, when you want to deal with thieving, as you say, you can always. And on the other hand, you all have this research center that he's done, if electronic voting devices are used in polling stations, so for example, in Germany no, use was banned by the Constitutional Court in 2009. So... the story, we actually come to the same thing, only this time it might be possible for one person to do what maybe the entire election board had to be in a story, or part of it, now the person behind the scanner, so when she settles that program and when she determines it, what she's going to scan, what's out of the box is going to scan. So we can discuss whatever you want now, but simply, if we want to prevent a thief, we have to look for other solutions, I'm not sure if this is a solution. Therefore, I would like to hear the opinion and the Central Election Commission, at the very least this is wrong to go, first there are a lot of articles, it is not right to go in a hurry procedure, and there is still time. These are technical changes, I agree, and their proposal, but I don't think they're solutions and why, why do it from the hills, from the valley, which he says until we see how those who do it see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23993	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23994	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, colleagues and fellow Members. I want my colleagues to correct the assumption that this should suit everyone. Then who steals? If it suits everyone, then no one steals, and obviously, we all agree, we all agree on one thing, that someone steals. So, it doesn't fit everyone, it doesn't match those who obviously use what's today for vote manipulations. And, if the chairman allows me, so I don't answer later, I'll just say one sentence about the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23995	Emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23996	So, as far as I'm concerned, the law itself is acceptable to me, and I think it solves one of the most serious problems we have. As for technical details, I don't think we really need to deal with this today, because this is all technically feasible and in practice it wouldn't, it's not the opposite of the Constitution. What I find problematic about the procedure is the number of 13 million. We accepted the budget, we didn't anticipate the budget of the funds, and it would be good to have, if nothing, the opinion of the finance minister and the vault whether it's in the budget, so whether transactions in the budget could provide new, additional 13 million for the election, which would basically cost about 24, 25, 32 million of these elections. Here, that, that would be good for us to know, so in a way, a little bit of, uh, it makes me feel like I'm getting a little bit closer to doing it in a shortened procedure, and that, at a stage, we get these short procedures, I don't think it's controversial, and the opinion of the Central Election Commission and the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the vault.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23997	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23998	I'm correcting my colleague Lovrinović's wrong quote. You don't have any more replicas, so, here, I'll take you away very briefly, uh, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u23999	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24000	No, so there's nothing you can do, and I'm not gonna challenge you, I'm just gonna say you're wrong. So the difference is between the electronic voting device, and you've read a good analysis and that's for electronic voting devices, and what we're talking about isn't that. So two different things. I can't help but think you have a little fear of these advanced technologies. And I thought that you were just by political ideas closer to the Middle Ages, but it seems that even when we talk about technology that you have like this, you tend to that some time than these...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24001	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24002	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24003	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24004	Here, I'll stop, you have no right to replicate, so I'll stop here.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24005	Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24006	Thank you very much. The claims that only the result was found through scanners, therefore, through the reading of ballots are not entirely accurate. Yes, it is established as a rule, but, when we look at Article 4, he foresees the possibilities to also count the ballots and predicts what will happen if there is a difference between the results identified by the scanner and the count, as well as the responsibility of the Central Election Commission in such disputed cases that here at the Voting Centre, and by reading through scanners and 33 counting, therefore, through those physical ballots, determines the right result. Also, by establishing a biometric fingerprint, it is necessary to establish that database in each place, to prevent someone from voting two, three, five times or voting for those who have not even come to the vote. About the procedure, yes, we need this Law and elections to reflect the will of citizens, not the machinery of election committees or observers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24007	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24008	... some incorrect facts and I wouldn't go in again, because, here, there's no right to replicate. You obviously don't want to talk about less than 1% of the missing ballots in that Germany, and I said, in some polling stations, there's more than 20%. Well, that should, you know, read everything, then read everything, say what it's about. It's about electronic, not scanning, that's the important difference, and so on. But you didn't list countries where the 100% scan, India. Well, you didn't say that either.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24009	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24010	So you didn't even list the United States where the voter's gonna be elected, and the ballots are all being scanned, and you didn't say that, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24011	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Isaković, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24012	I thank the chairman. The correction refers to Mr. Lovrinović, representative of Lovrinović. In fact, the emergency procedure here is only 28 members and 4 pages, and by emergency, I will remind him that we have adopted by emergency procedure here a budget that has 14,000 numbers and... And on the other hand, when it comes to funding, therefore, the proposer said that funding should not be a problem here, therefore, that there are already indications for some sources, and in the rest of the budget we have transferred funds from last year to this year, neutral funds. The finance minister will probably know where to find these funds, i.e. this Parliament can decide where to find these funds. And one more thing, when I've already taken the word, so we already have the laws of some who are in the process, which we haven't already determined from, from which funds, from which sources of funding will be. So I don't see any reason why this law shouldn't be on the agenda. Thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24013	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go, counselor, but before we discuss everyone's warning it's an emergency procedure debate, so please stick to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24014	I want to say right now that I'm in favour of an emergency procedure, I'm saying that there's no question here if there's any money, whether there's no money, no budget, no procedure. The question here is whether we have the political will and whether we are going to make this step. So, and that's why I'm saying this is an important principle for ensuring more transparency, protecting the will of the voters. We will support the emergency procedure this time, given that the public is well aware that we have been talking about this principle for the past four or five months, that we have a law that requires electronic voting in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now, at this point, at some point again, there is an additional time required by the Central Election Commission. In order for the same not to happen to these people who have proposed this Law today, we from the Independent Block will support the emergency procedure and, in that sense, I call on all of us to plead in such a way, to support one of these, this principle. So we support both the procedure and the principles of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24015	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić, sleeps. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24016	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Also, very briefly to express my support for the urgent process, although I agree that it is a very important and very responsible legislative process, for the reason that this wants to improve the electoral procedure in Bosnia and Herzegovina in which we have all agreed that there are numerous irregularities. And I think that we have had plenty of time in this term to analyse and explore the best approach and how we should move from the manual electoral procedure to the electronic electoral process, i.e. to the electronic voting. Why it is important that we now approach amendments and additions to the Election Law is that there is great mistrust, above all, in counting ballots and in the very election result. So here I will remind you that in 2016 we also had the opportunity to watch and be present at a presentation organised by the Central Election Commission when marking World Election Day. Then we could see how and how advanced technologies can be introduced into the electoral process, so all these doubts we express have places because they are new technologies, but we cannot run from them because it is the future and it must come to the agenda of this respected House and we must, whether or not, introduce a technical improvement of the electoral process, eliminate all doubts and all those who wish to abuse the will of voters and voters. Therefore, my support goes in this direction that in the nearest time we have an improvement in the electoral process, that we introduce new technologies and that the results of the vote are the exclusive will of our citizens. I would also like to say that the NGO, here, I will remember the Coalition "Under the Ball" for fair and fair elections, have conducted many research, organised presentations, round tables, we have had the opportunity to get acquainted with advanced technologies and anything that would significantly improve the electoral process. Therefore, we must face 35 of them and, behold, in a short time pass this very important Law that will certainly improve the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24017	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24018	I thank the chairman. We appreciate the initiative of these promoters and I think it's a good idea, especially the introduction of scanners, because as colleagues here have already said, those personal voices are being received after seven o'clock in the evening. I remember the previous elections in the case of Zvornik, the man takes the money from the Elektroprivreda, comes to Zvornik, and in Zvornik gets 8,000 votes in person, and I guarantee you that none of the voters in Zvornik have any idea who this man, nobody, is called Šupić. And so it's good to have this scan and to prevent it, we've been thinking about that idea of one leaf -- one xic, but then it would happen to create invalid ballots, where someone else gets it. So what we have a backup here, or here, we'd like to hear the opinion of the competent institutions, and that's why we're not going to support the emergency procedure today, is taking a fingerprint. For what? We already identify the voter based on his personal data, based on his name, last name, physical appearance, photos on his personal document, home number, etc. I'd like to have the opinion of the Personal Data Protection Agency, that they tell us if this is actually taking extra personal data. What are we going to do? Tomorrow the bankers will come to us, and when someone asks you for credit, give us a fingerprint. I think we need to take care of it, and I'd like it to be in the case of this fingerprint and the opinion of the Personal Data Protection Agency. Furthermore, I don't know if it's applicable from these choices, this should be applied, I don't know if it's possible to apply it to these elections. Let's see if we need to buy this equipment or if it's cheaper to rent it, because technologies are going forward, what we're going to do now, give us 13 million marks in four years, maybe it's an outdated technology. Are we gonna get four or eight more 13 million marks? Maybe it's cheaper, to see the Ministry's calculations or, look, make it, I believe that one of the colleagues can do it, is it cheaper to rent this equipment or is it cheaper to buy this equipment? What's two cheaper than that? It's some, it's just some questions I'd like to have, so no problem, we'll back this bill, but I really think you should be careful with this fingerprint, that maybe it's a needless waste of money. I'll tell you one more thing, I really have to say it here today -- not to me, my colleague came a man who had nothing to do with the executive or the legislative authority, nothing, it's completely out of the policy, and he said, he asked us to back this bill, he said -- you know, the job getting this equipment will get, I have a firm here and there, and the name of the company that needs to get this equipment. The company's from France, distinguished colleagues. So, man's out of institutions, but he's already thinking about it. And then I wonder, since I know it's here, it was probably a non-governmental sector, and possibly an international community, I wonder if someone from the international community is already reaching out to their own company. Well, that company won't get a job, so let's rent some equipment, and let's make some money for our domestic company. And so, uh, we're not gonna support an emergency procedure today, but we're really ready to talk about this law and finally support it, but let's just get the opinions of the institutions. Thank you. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24019	Thank you. Representative Amir Fazlić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24020	On behalf of the Party of Democratic Action Club, I would like to say that the Party of Democratic Action Club will also support the urgent procedure of adopting this law and that we will also vote in favour of the law. When we discuss the Law, we will, possibly, present some dilemmas, but I think a law like this is necessary in order for the transparency of the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be truly unquestionable, with all these reasons that colleagues state, about costing, about the possible purchase of equipment, about everything else. So to repeat, the SDA Club will support both emergency procedures and the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24021	Thank you. Representative Diana Zelenika, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24022	I thank and warmly welcome everyone. Here, as my colleague, the president of the club, has said here, and I come from a people who have been deprived of the right to legitimate choice of their representatives for years, even though I feel that most of those who represent us now are not very legitimate, that is what I have talked about and talked about. But here, I come all the way from a party that's twice damaged, another sight is just...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24023	It's just, please, an emergency procedure, now it's an emergency debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24024	That's exactly why I'm talking about it because, uh, I've mentioned more than once that our election was seven hours ago and after 19 hours. Here, I come from Electoral Unit II, where there were 11,000 invalid votes, of which 6,000 were completely empty ballots. As my colleague Backović said, it is clear to all of us how this happened, so by scanning I think only that it would damage the so-called Bulgarian train, so if a man wanted to bring out an empty ballot, it would not be possible, so we would certainly have more honest votes, results. I'm sorry my colleagues didn't let me sign this request earlier, because I'd be happy to sign it, and I'd be happy to support the law with two hands, because I don't have any more. And regardless of this, and fingerprints, and doubtful, I think that that way, it also eliminates the possibility of voting for our dead, dear, who have a very large number of polling stations, so I am both in favour of the procedure and for one of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24025	Thank you. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, debate. Here you go, MPs. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24026	Thank you, Chairman. What I'm trying to say is that for me, it's very acceptable and procedure and the law itself. I think that Bosnia and Herzegovina, seeking its European path, should follow, for example, an example of countries where voting is mandatory. There are countries like Belgium, for example, where voting is mandatory and where the average of turnout is about 90%, and the vote is mandatory in Luxembourg, Greece and Cyprus. There are also intentions in other countries of Europe to introduce a vote as mandatory, and in other countries of the world, there is also a mandatory vote in many countries of the world. It's punishable, for example, in Australia between $17 and $44 if you don't go to the polls, and in Greece if you don't go to the polls, you have big problems if you want to get a passport, or a ID card, or a driver's ticket. I fully, therefore, support myself, therefore, both the procedure and the law. I just want to take this opportunity to repeat, I don't know which time, as a person who has followed multiple elections in Europe, to ask why Bosnia and Herzegovina, to prevent manipulations in the elections and theft of votes, does not introduce transparent ballot boxes that are sealed and in which there is no, therefore, no such box at all possible manipulation because at seven o'clock when the elections are closed, representatives of the Council of Europe, the OSCE, accompanied by police with these boxes go to the Central Election Commission. So there's no way to count in that place and that's a great example. I witnessed several such elections in Europe and believe that the elections were democratic and that in the countries that we would least expect. So, I support this, I'd like to find the money, it's not about a large sum of money for transparent ballot boxes, sealed.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24027	Thank you. Representative Lazar Prodanović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24028	...the chairman. I appreciate the SBB and SDP's insistence on improving technical opportunities in the electoral legislation, but in this case I must say that I have a reservation on the procedure. I believe that a statement of urgency in such an important area will lead to even greater problems that may be that the adoption of this Law will be produced. In fact, I agree completely that it has exaggerated every measure of abuse by the electoral committees, but I argue responsibly, since I am participating, I have participated so far in 15 electoral processes directly, so, both as a candidate and in..., we are scanning the ballots a little bit of what we will improve. How can magicians or, conditionally speaking, corrupt election committees be put in order? What does the scan after 19 hours guarantee us, in any way, fair and fair presentations, fair and fair results, if three or five members of the election boards, including observers, agree to prefer someone on that and then scan and finish the job? How is it possible for Bosnia and Herzegovina to have the same right of participation in election committees as the largest political party? It's the first step that... What's going on? We have 10 independent candidates and, conditionally speaking, either the smallest or largest political party buys the same number of polling stations and has all its members? I was at the observation, so the election even, here, in neighbouring countries, in Serbia while I was in the OSCE delegation, I must honestly say – these are incomparably fairer and fairer elections than Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's what I'm saying directly. However, both choice and procedure is simpler, simpler because there is no preference. Without political entities that have representatives in the legislative bodies taking part with 50%, and all others, including those who have representatives in the legislative bodies, with 50%, without the independent candidate being able to have, therefore, all independent 38 candidates can only have one political entity. We will not improve the election process by anything. I agree with colleagues who have also said about transparent boxes that would be very, very significant and, too, I believe that legislation in terms of criminal measures must be increased. And one more thing, Bosnia and Herzegovina is not the only country in the world in which they are present... for the election process. One important democratic country has one business, that you,...and colleagues have spoken, and colleagues, says – vote always, vote every time, vote and when you're dead. How can we, how can we lead this process to approximately fair and fair elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina? This is also a problem within party turbulence. And just one more reserve I have about this screening and the possibility of counting votes. I argue that in this case, using even cameras we would have in a very large number, in percentage, a repeat of the election process in polling stations which would create more, I think extend the procedure of the total, so the final announcement of the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It should go, so this makes sense if the other problems present in the election process were reduced to some more objective level. Nothing would cost us this procedure to say – all independent candidates, one political entity, one who first performs in relation to those who have representatives in the legislative bodies can have only one half of the place compared to that. And then we would eliminate the creation of one-pronged election committees or single-uniters who prefer the individual to pass, regardless of what quality it has or what money it has in that sense to use it. So this is a much more complex process than it looks at the very beginning, I'm afraid we'll have a problem. And it made sense, too, that last year we passed this Law and that in early elections for local communities we test this and say, yes, it's incomparably better than this process. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24029	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24030	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests. In fact, I can't believe that here people who have been Members of Parliament, they won't mind my colleagues, they're talking about the irregularity of the elections, and they're sitting in Parliament. That there is a need to perfect the system, there is, and technological innovation exists, but let people know that they can't sit in Parliament and talk about how the elections were forged, how there's corruption on the election boards, and that none of these colleagues I've ever seen have filed a claim against irregularity anywhere. And no one can talk as ugly about Bosnia and Herzegovina as we who live in it. This isn't the perfect system... does anyone who has given up on this system know? Much more developed, which are the cradles of democracy. So it's good to learn. Not all technological innovations will not solve the problems Bosnia and Herzegovina has, but I don't think it's nice to, I think it's correct that at the end of the cycle of sitting in parliament to talk about the irregularity of elections. Thank you very much, and that's the reason for the innovation.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24031	Thank you. Representative Mladen Bosić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, Deputy. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24032	Dear colleagues. I'm aware that some of these topics don't fit, and some of them do. And it is not true that this Parliament should not talk about stealing elections, it is Parliament that needs to talk. It is likely that some MPs have been able to come to this House in such a way, but most of them certainly have not. Here it is our interest to provide democracy, to provide a regular choice of MPs, that is, to be a regular presentation of the will of citizens. I've been through a lot of choices, I know all the techniques, and I know that this technique too very quickly, the thieves will be mastered, from the power outage when they need to scan, to not know what kind of things, because the thief is imaginative. And you know where the problem is? Which doesn't work as a legal state, which agencies that should be chasing thieves and those who commit crimes of counterfeiting election results, or those who commit crimes of voter purchase are not in jail. If they'd caught 10 people, and we all know at least 10 people who bought in our midst votes, if they'd caught those 10 people, and it's not true we didn't report it, but the protection agencies that are in charge of it don't do their job, we wouldn't have the need to talk about it today. So if the police, the prosecution, had done their job, this problem would have been much smaller and much easier to control.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24033	Thank you. Staša Košarac's representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24034	Thank you, Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome all my colleagues and colleagues and you to the Council of Ministers. No one here disputes the fact that there are deviations and they're not one-party. They are often, I would say, synchronised from the municipality to the municipality with the aim of favoring certain favors and thus affecting, I would say, the electoral will. So it's quite clear here that everyone, when they want to perform one kind of manipulation, is together, and there's not you. Niko of us dispute the need to provide conditions for democratic elections and the voter's will to manifest itself through the vote in the election process, and there is no dilemma. We recognize all the deviations, all of them. Is this the right way? It's just a question. Is this the right way? Do we have the position of those directly involved in the election process, which is the Central Election Commission? Was there anywhere a pilot project in this country to see if it worked? That's the only problem – is this the right way? If today, theoretically, we adopt an emergency procedure in this case and the Law, suppose it will be adopted in the House of Peoples, what we have adopted. Is it the right model? That's what we want to talk about. When it comes to suppressing manipulation, suppressing deviation in the election process, we're the first to do it, I'm the first person to do it personally, and I don't want to, and I'm ready to talk about all things openly, but then we all have to look in the mirror and define whether everyone contributed to the existence of deviation. I say they are responsible. So I would just like to open up a credible matter of procedure, about the metrics we would have time to get official opinions of the Central Election Commission, the Ministry of Finance, I don't know, some other competent institutions, to see if it's enforceable, and to strive to find such a concept, such a model that democratically elected people are chosen on the basis of the will of voters, not the nonpartnership of many in this process for some personal aspirations, ambitions and emotions towards each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24035	Thank you. 40 Advocacy of Predrag Kožul, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24036	I'll try to stick to the Rules of Procedure and talk here only about the urgency of the procedure, but let me, like the other MPs, just one sentence of observation of what I've heard. A man would say when he listens to these discussions that they exist by the definition of a party that steals in elections and those who are by definition fair. I, like some colleagues, have long since there have been democratic elections in this country, have been following these elections in different ways and I will say one of my observations – no one in the 10th month of 2018 can steal you from the elections, especially a serious political party that tends to be parliamentary, unless you hold a ladder in the elections to steal you or steal you together. The election committees are so well-conceived, they're multiparty, observers are in polling stations. If there isn't... all interested... participants in the election process you won't prevent it, and that's one general fact. To make it very clear to me personally, and also to the party from which I come, we are for all technological and any other innovation of the electoral process that will improve the regularity of the electoral process. And now about the urgency of the procedure to say a few words. The emergency procedure around this Act, I agree, is not easy on its content, but it is already said, I agree with that, and more complex acts and laws we have adopted here by emergency procedure, so if we are in that part of somewhat principle we can swallow the matter of urgency of the procedure regarding the complexity of the Law if there is a haste and urgency to pass this Act. As for the election that will take place, if they come, in seven months, the urgency of the procedure exists only under certain conditions. It is that this law passes both homes relatively quickly and that the Central Election Commission has a ready tender for all of this. Is he there? I don't know. To be in charge of finance, whether it's the Council of Ministers or some international donor organization, they have ready money for this tender. Do they have it, do we know now that we're talking about the urgency of the procedure? There's probably no one else. And only when you have it do you have a lot of luck in the procurement process, and that public procurement we're always talking about here with its deviations, that tender procedure goes without a complaint to you within a reasonable period of time. Here, my colleague Pandurević said something to me, and I know that this equipment can't go without a complaint in the tender procedure. And what do you have for the 2018 election? It's a mess. Is 13 million enough sums, 150 municipalities, or as many as there are already in the state, times an average of 30, and probably more polling stations, I can't get there, I couldn't get to that data relatively fast, times the necessary equipment? I don't think so. Are there... technological processes to install all that equipment in every poor classroom in any village that has this or that... for installation and video surveillance and optical scanners, etc.? Probably a lot of trouble with that. So, I'm going to repeat what's already been said here, this technological innovation, as we are at this stage at this time in which we are, makes sense for the 2018 elections as a pilot project, to really see what it's wearing. Later, since I see this leaning towards an emergency procedure, possibly and inclined, I can talk about that I think that the only video surveillance, from these few measures, which could possibly affect the regularity of the election, the optical scanners, if there was what existed in the elections so far, are not changing anything. So, very, to finish, and I'm talking about procedure, it seems to me that the emergency procedure is not appropriate for both the subject, the time, the timing, or the seriousness of the subject. We in the Electoral Law, we have far more complex and complex problems that we do not solve. And to conclude, given that time, it seems to me, has expired for technological innovation – yes, for amendments to the law in that sense – yes, but according to the procedure that is appropriate to the subject. Thank you. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24037	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, no, You had a debate, Sadik Ahmetović, forgive me, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24038	Thank you very much. Well, something a little co-worker about these tenders, possibilities and inability, the state can make decisions through the Council of Ministers to get what it takes, so all it takes is for the Council of Ministers to decide. When it comes to public procurement laws, then, there's this possibility of making that decision, and it's up to us to see if or not it's what this country needs. I think it is, and I think this country should and must have a more transparent and fairer election. And these other tenders are a problem that will be called by October, from now on to October. Those tenders will pay those who trade on election day. And that's the problem. So when we talk about these tenders, we can talk twice. And my colleague, Mrs Pandurević, I would like to invite her to tell us, or to report, or to say which firm is already, which is known to be getting some jobs, to be socially responsible, and especially us MPs sitting in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24039	Thank you. The poisoner Aleksandra Pandurević, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24040	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm looking for a 15-minute break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24041	At the request of the president of the SDS Club, I'm giving a 15-minute break. I invite the president of the club, Mrs. Aleksandar, to explain to us the reasons why we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24043	I thank the chairman. The reason for asking for this break was that within the Club we consult, given that calling elections is very fast, whether there is time for this law to be adopted in two readings in both Houses and whether it can go into regular procedure or if we can support it in an emergency procedure. And what we agreed you'll see at the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24044	Thank you very much. 42 Here, I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Sign up. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24051	I'm sorry, Madam Chairman, I wasn't, I wasn't following you because we talked about some things. I suggest the conclusion one, I suggest you accept, the conclusion would refer to, the conclusion would be that the House of Peoples, if accepted at this House, this Law is considered by emergency procedure. Here, please respect that fact even though I'm too late.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24052	Please, MP Amir Fazlić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24053	The Honorable Chairman. As you have already said in the introduction, the amendments and additions to the BiH Criminal Procedure Act suggest they go according to emergency procedure. The introduction and explanation of the Law itself are all written here. So some of the provisions of this Law are not in line with the provisions of the BiH Constitution, so we have offered a quality solution that we think should be made known today. First of all, we believe that MPs, I suggest to my colleagues that because of the importance of this Law, we would firstly declare an emergency procedure, and then we open a debate on the content of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24054	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24055	I thank the chairman. The fact is that we have a Constitutional Court decision concerning the CAP and the Intelligence Act and the fact is that we have a serious problem if the Constitutional Court deletes the provisions of the existing Law...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24056	Dear colleague Backoviću.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24057	that many criminal investigations, especially those concerning organised crime, will be blocked. And it's necessary for this job to be done. But here, when I looked at it, the promoter did not just change the provisions that the Constitutional Court disputed, these are broad changes and additions. And that came to us last night, that we didn't even have enough time to look. I think we need to take this 44 seriously, see what it's all about, maybe this is all acceptable I'm really not going to get into it, but this law needs to go into regular procedure. I would further like to say that, since I asked the Honorable Minister, here it is, that the Council of Ministers has made the amendment and addition of the CAP to the Constitutional Court decision, that only the opinion of the Government of Republika Srpska is still pending, that it has not come from Mr. Kasipović, here I am also using this opportunity to publicly appeal to Mr. Kasipović to send this opinion, and as far as I know and the amendments to the Law... have been completed and they have been in public debate. A 15-day deadline for a public hearing has expired. As Minister Mektić told me, the law should also be found at the Council of Ministers. So we'll get two laws from the Council of Ministers that solve this problem. So today we really can't support an emergency procedure even for that banal reason that these changes and additions are wider than the Constitutional Court ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24058	Thank you. A colleague, Deputy Šefik Džaferović, is correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24059	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. The SDA, through its club president, would certainly not go out with the bill of this law but would, therefore, leave it to the Council of Ministers, the competent ministry in the Council of Ministers and its procedure as it comes to such laws, because it is highly professional laws that we are not really in the situation we are in right now. We had a session of the Constitutional Court on 15th, it seems to me, and on 16 February at which the agenda was placed – the non-implementation of this Decision. The Constitutional Court session is again this month, a day or two when we have a session again, after the session or, I'm not precise, but I think it's a day or two. If the Constitutional Court follows its rules and puts out of force the provisions it has made and declares unconstitutional Bosnia and Herzegovina to be in a very awkward and very dangerous situation, I am free to call it a dangerous situation when it comes to current cases before the Court of BiH, bearing in mind the principle of applying a mild law in force in criminal law. And I am obliged to tell you, to pass this on to Parliament, I would not want any of us here in Parliament to be responsible for this, because, I say, a very serious and very dangerous situation awaits us from that aspect here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why we decided that the material made up by an expert working group, so the people who are teachers, judges, who were also done at the Justice Department, so that's the material, we didn't invent anything, because none of us were qualified enough, no matter how they thought or talked about themselves, to write one of these texts, uh, we decided to put it in the procedure today. I ask you to understand this moment and that today we also adopt an emergency procedure and the very text of the law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24060	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24061	I really appreciate the need to resolve this matter urgently, but then the promoter should have suggested only what this issue solves, not the broader changes and additions. And we get that last night, that 45 at least we got three days ago so we can get inside our own parties, our people who deal with these issues to study it okay, but we get last night that we couldn't study it. What am I going to vote on today? I mean, none of us here are willing to take responsibility for keeping this thing in emergency procedures today and vote for this. You should have taken the club a little more seriously if you were already going to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24062	Thank you. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24063	Thank you. The Constitutional Court's decision was published in "the Official Messenger of BiH" of 7 July 2017, the decision requires the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to coordinate those provisions no later than six months, and to inform the BiH Constitutional Court of the measures taken to implement this Decision. The BiH Council of Ministers met at the 108th session, held on 19 July 2017, that the College of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives at the 51st session and the College of the House of Peoples at the 48th session discussed the Constitutional Court Decision in question, and decided to deliver it to the BiH Council of Ministers for Implementation. The Council of Ministers tasked the Ministry of Justice to implement in co-operation with the Ministry of Security the obligations arising from Constitutional Court Decision No U-5/16. We are warning, and that is why we are asking it to be urgent, warning that there is a danger that the BiH Constitutional Court will put unconstitutional provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act on 22 and 23 March. Unless the Criminal Procedure Act is adopted, and the disputed non-constitutional provisions are put out of force, the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office will be disabled when it comes to special investigative actions, and there is a particular danger of the existence of investigations that are under way, as the application of special investigations as well as the giving of immunity to witnesses will be suspended, and these evidence will no longer be used in the process. There are currently between 50 and 100 cases where special investigative actions have been used, i.e. giving immunity to the witness, and the prosecution will be prevented from launching new investigations, especially in cases of fighting corruption and organised crime. We note that by failing to adopt amendments to and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, criminals currently being prosecuted are faced. In a situation where the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to step up its work to strengthen the rule of law, our European path, which is constantly being felt by officials from Brussels, and to provide a secure environment through state-level judicial institutions, both for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and for potential foreign investors. By repealing the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure... and the effective conduct of the criminal proceedings is largely questioning their work. Failure to adopt the Law is one way to prevent state institutions from exercising their constitutional powers when it comes to protecting the rule of law. We are aware of the facts and messages Mr Junker gave a few days ago in Bosnia and Herzegovina – strengthening the rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the aim of gaining candidate status, firstly, is our first task in strengthening the rule of law. That's why this discussion of mine comes in favor of my colleagues asking us to take urgent action and preferably adopt a proposal like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24064	Thank you. A colleague, Deputy Šefik Džaferović, is correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24065	Just to respond to the allegations made by Mrs Pandurević that these solutions include and have a somewhat broader procedure than what the Constitutional Court requires. No, it's not like that. So, these solutions refer exclusively to what the Constitutional Court has problems with, and I'm just telling you the position of the expert group that was working on this. There is therefore no question that has been raised by the Constitutional Court which has not been resolved by this amendment and by the addition, also as there is no question that would be added to the Constitutional Court Decision. People, so here's the problem of what's going to happen the next day when the Constitutional Court puts out the force of this provision. I know what milder law means, I won't tell you about it, and that's why I'm asking you to think about this, so let's think about this whole thing and make this move. We've waited a long time, so the College's been communicating with the Council of Ministers, with the Ministry of Justice, we didn't get it in parliamentary procedure. I wish we'd gotten it right away, two months after the Constitutional Court ordered this. The deadlines are up, and that's why there's this proposal. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24066	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24067	The Constitutional Court has challenged Article 225 (2), we here have changes and other views,... according to other views. Secondly, I'm shocked to hear here today that the Constitutional Court will make a decision at the next session. How do we know that, how can someone say that the Constitutional Court is sure to delete this or that at the next session?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24068	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24069	That's terrible. And certainly no one, at least I don't think most of us here want criminals to be left without surveillance measures and the possibility of doing special investigations, terrorists. All this brings about in case the Constitutional Court makes such a decision, all of this comes into question, terrorists will not be under special supervision, criminals, people who deal with organised crime. But the Constitutional Court needs to know if we delete this provision without any changes and additions being brought here, so that's the collapse of the constitutional order that we don't have,...the rule of law in that case, everything stops, the prosecution, the court, everything stops. And I hope that the Constitutional Court will have that in mind and that it will not make such a decision but will wait, and I believe that by then the Council of Ministers will send amendments and additions to the Law and that we will solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24070	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24071	The impoverishment of Mr. Džaferović's false claim. So, he says that the material was made up by an expert group, a working group, that's on our honorary word. Which working group, is that the SDA's task force, is that the part of the SDA that's in the Constitutional Court, so he made a proposal that could pass quickly? How unserious this proposal is and what someone expected to get away with in no time. That's where the hunch comes from. Finally, the key question – does this country have executive power? What is important to us now as soon as it is finished, and the Ministry of Justice, or the Council of Ministers, has failed to reach an agreement on this. Wait, guys, what's this all about? Is it possible that the Council of Ministers failed to reach an agreement on this topic, so we will hurry now over, as soon as possible, through the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives? So please get serious and don't pretend we're not making a circus out of this Parliament. The Council of Ministers is if anything else should leave him time to give his, Ministry of Justice a position on this proposal. And that honorable word of the expert group, please, so they can be for the SDA something, but they should be for all the other things.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24072	Thank you. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24073	Thank you. I'm sorry to have to replicate to my friend and colleague Dušanka Majkić. No SDA expert group did this, this law was done by experts in the field of legal science across the country. And the U.S.A. doesn't have its own exhibits in the Constitutional Court, and I don't think that kind of discussion is, at the very least, correct. But here I am now asking the Council of Ministers, although I am from the positional political party – why has the Ministry of Justice not done its job so far? There's the Minister of Resorship to answer. It's been six months since you went to the Council of Ministers with such a proposal to Parliament? Why, why isn't this law already here, it's been six months? Since we have made a statement declarative that we are in a great hurry in the European Union and since Mr Junker has told us that we have equal opportunities, that Serbia is not in a privileged position to us, I ask you as a resolute minister – what is the problem, why did you not deliver such a law to us in parliamentary procedure since your time is up? We're in a hurry in Europe or not, are we going or not going to fight crime and corruption or not? Please answer me.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24074	Chairman Borjana Krišto, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24075	Thank you very much. Here, I will also refer briefly to the Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which has been delivered here today by an urgent procedure, and concerns the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision. This is a decision that has been made under my request to the Constitutional Court and I have heard here a few minutes ago refer to these amendments to the Election Law, with no one mentioning that it is infringements of fundamental human rights, which this Law 48 has made possible and on the basis of which numerous judicial decisions have been taken at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and large financial resources have been paid in this regard. I'm not going to go further into the reasoning of this law, just a brief reminder, so what was it about? Therefore, it is really necessary to make the implementation of this Constitutional Court Decision as soon as possible and to propose amendments and additions to the Penal Code, and it must have been done by now. But what I hear here from a respected colleague, Džaferović, so she referred and a colleague, I can only know from what I followed when I received the decision that the Constitutional Court had already held one session, it was a session, it seems to me, in this, early this month or last month, at which I should have put this provision of the Law outside the legal force, but it did not. Maybe even taking care of something we've heard about here today. If that's what the Constitutional Court is going to do, I really don't know, it's a matter of evaluation and evaluation of the Constitutional Court. We know by the rules how he should behave, and how we'll see it at his session. What I want to say is that I will also advocate urgent resolution, namely the implementation of this Decision, but in this case it is truly unacceptable that a law called the Criminal Procedure Act should guarantee both legal certainty and the rule of law, that we propose it by the representatives. I think it's inadmissible and I could find some experts, professors, I don't know, knowers of legal norms in this area, consult and do, it didn't occur to me, by asking for and applying to the Constitutional Court to challenge these provisions of this Law in relation to the European Convention on Fundamental Human Rights. So I think that the amendments to this Law must be in accordance with the Decision, they must be clear, precise, that they do not leave or open up the possibility of arbitrary interpretation, so they must bring into the situation that we had, here and before these amendments to the Law. I would therefore propose, through this debate on the urgent procedure, one conclusion in which Parliament's House of Representatives postpones its statement on the request of MP Amir Fazlić to consider the amendment and supplementation of the BiH Criminal Procedure Act under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. The second conclusion – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers until the next session of the House of Representatives delivers the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH in order to implement the Constitutional Court Decision number U5 I will also briefly refer, that I have tried to consult with the people of the Ministry of Justice in the short time, honestly I am not with the Minister, to see if it has been done, so they have told me that these provisions of this Bill are not really identical, they are in a good part similar in terms of what my colleague Džaferović was talking about, but I personally think and prefer what should come from the technical processor and, of course, the authorised legislator, and this is the Council of Ministers, and then we will open the debate here before this distinguished House. I hope that here we will be in the interest of all of us, and the security that we should have to support these proposals and at the next session we will discuss and adopt these proposals that come to us from the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24076	Thank you very much for your esteemed chairman. Part of the debate you took from me, so, so I'll try to get what's left, and what I meant to say, I say. Only procedurally, uh, nature can have a problem when it comes to 49 of these suggestions that we have ahead of us. I mean, it's not a question of anyone here that this has to be resolved quickly, and it's no question that it has to be done urgently. Businessly, if a member of the Rules of Procedure is then, besides this urgency, he also asks for the simplicity of the solution, and the solutions offered are not at all simple to adopt in a single reading. And I think most of the colleagues who discussed it, discussed it in that direction, so the necessity to solve it, but also the fact that it's complex issues that can't be solved in a single reading. If the Minister of Justice thinks that by the next session, which I heard on the 21st of this month, he can make or propose a solution that will in principle satisfy the Constitutional Court's decision, then my suggestion would be for my colleagues to withdraw this proposal by 21. If we do not receive such a proposal from the Justice Ministry, of course no one can prohibit colleagues from having that proposal that we have today, that or any change, or any other other proposal put forward, to discuss it by emergency procedure. I think it would be correct to respect the attitude of most colleagues here who are, who are thinking this way. I've only repeated what I think, what I've heard so far, so for all this I've just said it would Palament good to have a law on the Ministry before making the conclusions that counterpart Krišto suggested. I don't know how he'll go on the Council of Ministers, but as far as the Ministry itself is concerned, if we're going to have a request that meets the conditions required by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24077	Thank you. Representative Damir Bećirović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24078	It's not a debate, I'd like to request a half-hour break on behalf of the DF Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24079	At the request of the DF Club, we give a half-hour break. Please, can we make a deal... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's what I was gonna say, could it be a break right now, so let's put it together for an hour, so I'll see you here at 14:20. How about that? There you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24082	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. 50 Here's just a few words, since it was here, I could go through the replica, but here, there were certain findings that required that some things be answered. Here, I am not going to enter into that on which Mr. Džaferović concluded that the Constitutional Court could make a decision, but I will say that the Constitutional Court is prone in certain cases to challenge, let me say, some unstable state of mind with its decisions by eradicating certain provisions from current legal projects, so I will mention two examples. One is the abolition of parts of the City of Mostar statutes when it comes to selecting city councilors. And what do we have as a result? That since 2012, we have no choice in Mostar. Or, here we have the abolition of the electoral laws relating to the election of delegates in the House of Peoples of the Federation, uh, and here's what we currently have is the subject matter in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the creation of a new Electoral Law. Various stories have opened up, but in the end, unless the election law changes, we are in a position not to be able to implement the 2018 elections. Here, it is my contribution to the fact that we should adopt this law by an urgent procedure so that we do not come into a situation here, that sometimes we list the third problem that has arisen in Bosnia and Herzegovina because certain provisions of the law by the Constitutional Court have been deleted, and have not been completed through parliamentary procedure, and in this case, the consequences would be even more catastrophic, would those who, as we say, are not working fairly in this country be protected. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24083	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Since we discussed the Emergency Procedure Act, we should make a statement, but with this point, we have a proposal for a conclusion which I have specifically proposed. Do you want us to, because without each other, do not mean anything to say in the package on the proposal for conclusions? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, yes, the conclusions must be stated before, because Conclusion No. 1 requires a postponement of the plea, and the second requires the House of Representatives of the Council of Ministers to deliver to us by the next session of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure in order to implement the Constitutional Court Decision. Here, please, let's be clear about the proposals for Borjana Krišto's conclusions. Of the 34 present... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24087	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24088	Afterwards, later consent. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Payments and Receipts Act in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Borjana Kristo, Law number: 01-02-1-205/18, of 18.01.2018. (first reading) On 22 January 2018, the legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion, establishing that the proposal for a law is in line with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Commission for Finance and Budget submitted its opinion on 19.02.2018. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. At the request of the Constitutional Legislative Commission, the College of the House of Representatives approved an extension of the deadline for the submission of opinions on the draft law by 30 days. The Constitutional Commission delivered Opinion 05.03.2018. The commission found that the draft law is in line with the BiH Constitution and the legal system. I'm opening a debate. Representative Mirsad Isaković, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24090	I thank the chairman. I have to say that this bill we support in the sense that soldiers' salaries are really small and 7,126 soldiers, so they have an average salary of 655 marks, which is not even the average salary of the Federation. We think on that basis that really shouldn't be a problem. But what concerns me particularly is the fact that we adopted the budget on 31.12 last year and entered this fiscal year for only 20 days, and then we already passed a law that is not in the budget. What 52 is problematic, so just 20 days old budget, we already have a law that violates budgetary balance. So, on 18.01. this law was released into procedure. What is, in our opinion, problematic is the fact that the amount of this Act is 9.327,186. I repeat again - we are for this law, but we want to know which funds money comes from for this law. In the proposal itself, therefore, there are no sources from which the Finance and Budget Commission has not given out of which funds, the Council of Ministers has not given out of which funds, and in the budget of the Ministry of Defence of these funds, even moreover the budget says that 1,796,000 are less than last year, so the funds are missing for the current one. I really wonder what funds this goes from or within the budget will be to restructure budget items, but we need someone to tell us from which items. Here, at this point, I would really not want to repeat Article 4 of the Fund will be provided exclusively from the budget and Article 7(3) which says that these funds should have been provided in budget requests, in the same law it says that these funds should have been provided for. And I don't see any budget for this year's funding. We are for that, but someone to say from which means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24091	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24092	Honored chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests. In fact, apropo of what my colleague Isaković was saying I think it would be good for these amendments to the Law to have the Council of Ministers and Resorship Ministry's opinion just for the location of 9327,000 pay funds that are increasing, so to the members of the Armed Forces of BiH, to call it that. But there's also a solution to this if we really want to solve this problem. So we should know whether the pay fund stays the same or not. So one year you can hook up with other means, but it would be good to have it... But I have a proposal that these 9327,000 be left with the same salary fund and let the motionor or council of ministers tell us in which way, because it's been said that we have a rudely high salary over the years. It's hard to correct other categories here, not reduce those who have the highest wages, which carry a political burden. And my proposal is that for 9 million, to find 9327,000 from an existing salary fund, that would mean that we are responsible for Parliament. So MPs will receive 2.5 thousand, three, if that's what we're up for, I'll support it, but in this way, if this bill passes he'll fight us, if he passes, he'll fight us at the end of this financial year, because he's literally increasing the salary fund, and we've sworn we won't increase public spending and I think the arrangement with international financial institutions warns that there is no growth. If we're reducing wages by this much by different coefficients, I support this. If we don't cut, we need to know what the location is in the budget. And that's true, and that the Council of Ministers declares, the resolution ministry on which the funds are meant to be made available to make this worth it. But I don't think the public will welcome us if we raise the salary fund, not if we increase them, but if we keep existing pay classes and salaries at all levels. And I would pray, therefore, that in that sense we lead, if we want to do something then we have to go, so we have to run two-sided activity, to increase the members of the Armed Forces in the way we're proposed, but to proportionally reduce from the highest to the lowest level, so to you, to these... and that can be done. If there's any political readiness, let's work, but I'm afraid, I'm not sure that this willingness exists. So, I'm just so that 53 of this changes if the same salary fund remains in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we're not ready to cut it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24093	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24094	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. I'm really glad this is finally on the agenda. And they're right about those people who talk when preparing the budget, when this thing that we have right now in Bosnia and Herzegovina was trying to do that, too, was supposed to be discussed here. What I'm saying is, so me and the Independent Block will support this bill proposal and in the first reading, and then we'll suggest yes, and we think it would be the right step to take, respecting this approach mentioned by fellow Špirić, so these coefficients try to even themselves with those police coefficients. According to this proposal now, so we're going to go to the cop's coefficient before changing the law we did last year, right? So, in that sense, I think that there is space, there is a need to think in such a way, because the salary of soldiers, even with this, and also with this today, is conditionally said to pass and this bill is extremely low and extremely inappropriate. We also support the approach to try to do it in the same way as counterpart Špirić said, all approaches for us are acceptable, but that this issue should be resolved, that soldiers and people in the Armed Forces should be made even more dignified, and I would say, more honestly, to pay for what they do, so we as Parliament and as a state and as the institutions of government must do. So here's what I'm proposing and we're going to support this in our first reading, but we're already thinking about how these coefficients, so we're going to suggest this in this amendment phase, that we try to regulate the coefficients right now in the way that it's now regulated with cops' salaries. So, at 1.20 as far as your proposal is concerned, we're going to propose that amendment to go immediately to 1.29 as many police officers currently have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24095	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24096	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Oh, here's another word from the Independent Block. Well, here, I want to say that, to remind us that soldiers and officers are almost 80% of the people of the Armed Forces of BiH, however, when it comes to the salaries of soldiers and sub-offices, the existing situation is contrary to Article 3. The law on salaries and fees in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina where, in its position (a) says that, in line with the principles of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina who carry out the same and similar jobs, they will receive equal basic salaries, i.e. jobs from different institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina where similar jobs are carried out will be classified in the same pay grade. And long ago it was made, let's say, a mistake against members of the Armed Forces, and this law I consider an attempt to remove the existing discrimination against soldiers and officers of the Armed Forces. 54 Here is what my colleague Šepić was talking about, we will support the Law in the first reading, and we will propose certain corrections through the amendment phase in terms of precisely this equalization with other employees in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina primarily, here, to police forces, or state officials who, in relation to both the police and the military, have a schedule and through payment classes, which provides for certain, certain advances and in the service, and progress when it comes to, uh, salaries of employees. I think we will all agree with the findings that, uh, the soldiers are particularly damaged, they are in a difficult one material state, and they work in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The relationship with them is the relationship between the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and we have to correct it. I'm here on several occasions and as an individual, and here's the last time I'm a member of the Independent Club when I adopt the budget in '15 and '16. and '17. The year sought precisely because of these situations the enlargement of the budgetary framework, because I felt it took extra money to get us into these projects. I hope that fellow Members and fellow Members will support this proposal, I hope that it is not populist, that it is really a proposal which is intended to be realised and if we are in this procedural part responsible for, I will say, primarily the Armed Forces and its members, we will be able to find a solution, correct these coefficients and find sources of funding, because I am sure that we can and have certain reserves, since millions of marks at the end of the financial year remain neutral because of the lack of individuals in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24097	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24098	I'd just like to, if of course I can help and if it won't be understood differently. The law on salaries and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a system law, very difficult to come by and it has been derivated on several occasions. First he asked for an exemption from the Constitutional Court, then the Court, then the Prosecutor's Office, so I see now there are, uh, law-makings, looking for ombudsmen. I think it would be much more meaningful, considering that we have these proportions, at least by public assessment, and we know that, too, rudely low and rudely high wages. And in order to systematically settle this, let's put in charge of the Council of Ministers to offer a new bill of wages within 60 days, time has been a little disabling, and everyone fighting for their privileges is reluctant to solve the whole thing. So it would be much better, but to consider this as a starting point. I will not be resented by the promoter, I respect what is wanted by this law, but if we go to this alone I say we will cause more political damage within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let's put in charge of the Council of Ministers within 60 days to offer a new law that will solve this dilemma that we are talking about, and solve this challenge that we are facing. Here, that's my suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24099	Thank you. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24100	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. 55 My replica refers to the presentation of fellow Špirić. It would not be good if we were to train our strictness over this population, the simplest soldiers brought to the wall and who are seriously considering leaving the Armed Forces, going outside, etc. I think that this intervention of our legislator of this law has come at the right time and I think we should adopt this today, and, in conclusion, put in charge of the Council of Ministers that the system law is well-determined and that possibly these rudely high wages, as you say, reduce, and that this, the poorest part, here, of civil servants, soldiers, police officers, etc. How much...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24101	Thank you. Mirsad Isaković, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24102	The correction refers to MP Mehmedović. So no one's here against this law, to be specific, this is what we need, this law needs and we support it, and it should have been long ago. Insolently low wages such as this, this population, indeed, needs to be corrected by this injustice, but only clearly, loudly, so that we don't make a decision and we don't have the resources to fund it. So we ask that it be clearly defined from which funds these nine million and 300 will be financed. So that's what it is, and the rest of it I don't think anyone has any dilemmas, that neither one of them here is against those salaries. Thank you, there's so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24103	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24104	I thank the chairman. Well, let me just say to an esteemed colleague that it can't happen that there are no funds... these funds to be paid, even if they don't increase the salary fund. It's very easy to get rid of. The Council of Ministers, our salaries are determined by the decision on the height of the foundation, enough to reduce the base level, remain the same fund, these people are even and solved the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24105	That's the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24106	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24107	Nikola supports it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24108	If base 56 is reduced
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24109	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24110	So, I'm asking you to make sure that I waited for everyone to finish the story, so I can start talking. So each time before the elections, this Parliament increased salaries to soldiers, and it happened that this Parliament increased salaries to soldiers, i.e., gave them the opportunity to retire at 35 years of age. Always one populist law that touches a wide structure before the elections themselves, it has already become a common thing. Now, when I look at it, given that Mrs. Krišto proposal was logical to address first the Ministry of Finance, or finance minister, who is a colleague from her political party and to hear his opinion and opinion on it. Obviously, Mr Bevanda, in the context of what we have adopted, in the context of what Bosnia and Herzegovina has an obligation to adhere to, has not given consent to such a thing, otherwise it would be a proposal from the Council of Ministers, not individual MPs. So, I know that every party wants to add one number of votes from that contingent, but that should be kept in mind if correcting one mistake makes another even bigger. What does it mean if 9,300,000, I don't know where we're going to take them from, but that, well, we're going to pass a law that doesn't predict what source these funds are being taken from. And let's say it could be, here's the Secretary of Defense, we have three or four years as much as it already stands for 7.5 million dollars for a remont of helicopters for which there's no way they can be realized, because it's obviously not going to be sent where that realisation can be done, but that money is going to fail, and 7.5 million is the number that could be redistributed to that side. Since the Ministry of Defence always remains one part of the funds unused, this is where the funds must be taken from, you do not have to take money from additional sources and exceed that amount of 950,000. So this is a serious thing, and don't let anything that might hurt our heads tomorrow. I don't think they've solved the problem in the Federation yet how to solve those soldiers who, at the age of 35, were given the right to retire. It's a problem that we'll get caught up with at the time and if there's not one of these possibilities that within some redistributions this job ends, we've made ourselves a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24111	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24112	We can revolve around this in circles, and it's undeniable that we have to do something, it's undeniable that we have to if we give these people anything to have a perspective where they are. There's a solution. So we have to understand that we live in the constitutional environment that we live in, that the Constitution defined what it defined and that to get out of this dead end, there's a simple solution, budget rebalance. Now we see what we're making ourselves... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24113	Please. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24114	Well, give the law a change. That's right, Nikola. Nikola, because we now see what we are doing by denying the possibility of budget rebalancing, because there are neither Srbin nor Hrvat nor Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat, nor Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak, so round that we mix it up, but here are people, persons, people who need to support their families. We have a solution, let's go according to this law, on the other hand, to go towards amendments and additions to laws that will regulate the possibility of budget rebalances and ask for a little more funds for the military. It should be initiated by the minister, I think it would be her task, to initiate this procedure, because there is no other. Because you have a legal restriction, what Nikola was talking about, I agree with Nikola with you, and then we have that but. You've got it in the Constitution, it says what's in the course of your term, and then we'll get some of them to claim their rights, so they'll get it in court, we don't need it. We must make it a legal framework to obey the law that we make. So we have two times, one is to change the law and rebalance the budget, and the other is to adopt what we have in front of us, or we're going to change the Constitution. And the Constitution says that during the term of office you can't influence the level of income, that's the problem. I've been pushing for cuts from the beginning, but you can't constitutionally, that's our big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24115	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24116	As this Law is put on the agenda, so the people to whom the law applies have started to communicate, among other things with us MPs, and what most of them, or all of them say is that this is the Law of Cosmetic Nature and that in some, let's say, in a serious sense, it will not improve their position. And at the end of that whole story when I ask them – well, how do I vote, says – vote yes, at least... So, right now, let's unburden this discussion of mine so you don't get it wrong, I'm going to support this law, but I want to say a few things that these people are saying about what their problems really are. I won't be long. The difference between a soldier’s salary and an officer’s, or officer, is something that all cites as one example of discrimination and inequality. So, of course, that a higher rank and should have a higher salary, but the examples that people cite are really something that we need to ask ourselves. The other thing and the pensions that follow, especially when it comes to this new Law on PIO, are something that makes a huge proportion between these people who may not have earned that pension the same way but by doing a similar job. The ban on strike is something that people often cite as a reason why, say, border police officers are in a better position than they are, because people either threaten to strike or prepare strikes and fight for their rights, a soldier must remain silent. A few of them claim that it's already been removed from pay on several occasions, and that, for example, the border police have been returned and they haven't. I don't know if that's the case but a few people claim something like that. But what everyone agrees on is that they are in a very difficult position, what we call them, ordinary soldiers who when they go to the field spend their money on something they should have as a hot meal, buying water, buying heaters to warm themselves up, and all of it is made of extremely small wages. What they also cite as a major problem is overtime. There are those who sent me their personal plates, their records where they get paid for 160 hours and work over 300. So it's a lot, there's a lot of problems these people have. 58 Is this the solution to their problems? It's not. Are they interested in getting at least 30 more marks? It is, but it shows how difficult the situation is that this is significant for them too. All the conversations and all the messages I got were messages from people who desperately need some sort of step. And after all these messages I thought their attitude would be – don't do this either because it's humiliating in this way to deal with huge problems, but everyone says – support it. I'll support this bill, but I really want to draw attention to all this stuff. We had a case of soldiers who weren't insured who were killed in a terrorist attack, and people who work in the field are drawing attention that they don't have collective insurance. Let's take a step, even before the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24117	Chairman Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24118	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I feel the need to say something as a proposal for this bill on salaries and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of how you commented and how you experienced this bill, whether it's electoral, or whether it's like this or not. I would like to remind, like this, all of you that as a member of the Defence and Security Committee within one conference, it was an analysis of the situation by the institutions, especially in the Department of Defence area, that suggested a conclusion at the end of the panel that was being discussed, and who was actually brought up by this debate, which was also discussed by colleague Magazinović, where the Ministry of Defence would be obliged to consider and prepare changes to legal and sublegal acts that would concern an increase in the age for professional soldiers from the current 35 to 40 years old, as well as a proposal to increase the salary for soldiers, because the current coefficient 1,12 is not sufficient, and all with the aim to improve the material status of this category. Indeed, this proposal came from this conference and came to the Joint Commission and the Joint Commission, in fact, unanimously supported these views from the conference through its report and as a special conclusion. In keeping with the fact that these conclusions were realised, I contacted the minister on a few occasions and I saw that she did everything possible to realize this conclusion, but despite everything, there was a will to change this law that we now have in the procedure, and it was about increasing the age of 35 to 40, and apparently for increasing the salary of soldiers in some way the institutions did not have enough understanding. And even though I'm also aware that we've adopted a budget that we've adopted, I've decided to respect, to actually be consistent with what I've proposed, so in that sense I've proposed a law that, in my opinion, has, above all, constitutional foundation, and the principles of the law are entirely with that, here's what you see from this debate whether someone has formulated it in one way or another. In fact, the proposed amendments to the BiH Armed Forces Act mean that in the category of soldiers and officers who have the lowest wage calculation coefficient, which is around 80% of the people in the Armed Forces, this way would improve material status and stop the negative trends in abandoning this category from the Armed Forces. In particular, we have heard this here from respected colleagues who, in some ways, have entered into the arguments and principles of this Law, so they have said that, in view of the other categories covered by the Law on Salaries and Compensations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is established and significant, in fact, disproportionate between the coefficients for the calculation of the salaries of other employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions in relation to active military personnel. 59 I do not think there is a need to explain in particular, I believe that the issue of improving the material status of soldiers and officers in the Armed Forces is in the context of the overall situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to which these categories are below each, below each average of staff in the institutions, and of the general average in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which certainly acts dimmingly on the current employment and also on the reception of new candidates in the Armed Forces of BiH which is causing, I would say, and agreeing perhaps the already existing difficulties. You've seen principles, and I don't think this law lacks what some have said. Here there are calculations according to current coefficients, then monthly differences and total assets. And in the end, we come to the question of how and how to implement a law like this if it is adopted, and I hope and I am convinced that something like this should be adopted by this House. The finance ministry has not delivered an official report at the moment, I asked the Honorable Minister and today, he said, could not deliver it without the Council of Ministers' opinion, it has been prepared. The funds for this, the calculation of these salaries must and can be found, therefore, in different ways, and above all one of them prepared by the Ministry of Finance and prepared by the Council of Ministers is to establish, or reduce the base to ensure the funds to increase salaries to active military persons. I will fully support any type of coordination and any kind of one that leads to the removal of discrimination both in terms of wages and compensation when employed in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, and in a special way, here's the working military person. So I think and hope that we will all uphold this law. We remain that, of course, in the second reading, if someone thinks it should be amended, in some way, act, but we really need to make sure that we are proposing solutions that are sustainable aware that we are adopting this Law, of course, in the year when the budget is already known and that we have to look within the framework, I would say, legal opportunities and that involve certain changes that the Honorable colleague Špirić has said. I think there's space in there whether any coefficient would be possible, uh, change or decrease just a base, but in any case I'll accept one way or another. And if we pass this bill, I don't think there's gonna be a way to secure these funds. Here, thank you very much for... Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24119	So, it's good to stick to what we give as our position or conclusion in concrete situations as you say you are, to stick to it, and it's also good to keep in mind that we are MPs and that we know how to create the budget and what conditions new laws are made. It's both things that we have to take care of. I just want to say that not only are our soldiers leaving, but the officers who don't have any pay problems are leaving, so they're leaving as are the other professions that are leaving. And the officers are leaving, whether it means they're not getting enough pay. One soldier told me that if you got all the benefits that belonged to him, which means pay, a warm meal and, what, transportation, that salary would be close to 1,000 marks. And it's not a small salary for medium professional training, it's a common salary, and it's considered a decent salary for medium professional training. So I'm just talking about whether or not we're thinking about these things the right way. That's why I think it would be a good idea for this statement to wait for the Council of Ministers' position. I deeply believe that that analysis that Mr. Bevanda will do before he delivers his stuff to us is something that we'll be able to manage. Thank you. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24120	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-476/18, of 13.02.2018. (first reading) On 22 January 2018, the legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion, establishing that the proposal for a law is in line with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The relevant Joint Defence and Security Committee delivered its opinion on 22.02. The commission accepted the principles of the Law. The Constitutional Commission delivered Opinion 05.03.2018. The commission found that the draft law is in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Report by the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of Persons Reporting Corruption in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Aleksandra Pandurević, Borjana Krišto and Mirsad Isaković, Law No: 01-02-1-2687/17, of 15.11.2017. (law in second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24125	Just to remind you what we talked about at the last session. So, I thank all those who have approved this emergency procedure. The message I sent last time and I want to repeat it and now it is that if we adopt this Law, not one single national monument in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which includes many religious objects, it will no longer be treated in the way it has been so far, or any bottle on the mosque, or any stone on the church, the city core of numerous BH cities that are national monuments will be protected in one completely different way and all those other monuments. And, look, I'm really asking that we treat this area this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24126	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Application of Representatives: Mirsad Mešić, Saša Magazinović and Denis Bećirović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, No. 01-02-1-507/18, of 15.02.2018. At the 57th session of the House, held on 20.02.2018, the request for an examination of the draft law under emergency procedure was referred to the agreement of the College of the House as a committee. The college didn't achieve consent. There's no discussion here. We'll come forward immediately in the second round about the emergency procedure request. Out of total... 62 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24129	He's looking again for a repeat vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24130	Who's asking for a repeat? It's nobody. Of the 35 present – for 15... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat the vote. Of the 35 present – for 16, against 10, abstentions 9. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I understand we've adopted an emergency procedure request. I'm opening a debate on the bill. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving to point 10, Ad. Ten. Report from the Joint Committee on both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Parliamentary Oversight (proposer: Temporary Joint Committee on the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control, Law No: 01,02-02-1348/17, of 26.05.2017)
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24134	I thank the Honorable Chairman. The subjective report on the impact review best shows the government's relationship with Bosnia and Herzegovina towards public administration reform, which is a precondition for Bosnia and Herzegovina's integration into the European Union. The main condition for Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in the European Union is the ability of the public administration to adopt and implement the basic regulations and standards of the European Union. How far away we are from achieving such conditions are we now presenting this Impact Review Report on "The efficiency of the preparation of public administration reform projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina". Bosnia and Herzegovina began a public administration reform back in 2004 when the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office was established, and the Public Administration Reform Strategy was adopted in 2006. The objective of the strategy is to create an efficient, transparent, economic and modern public administration, oriented towards citizens. The strategy includes, I will remind you, a set of reform areas: strategic planning, coordination and policy making, public finance, human resources management, administrative procedures and administrative services, institutional communication, and euprava. And all this is well imagined, strategically well-set and goals are perspective. But what have we done for the past 14 years? How have we reformed the public administration, i.e. what are the indicators of progress and improvement of public administration work in these reform areas? My answer to this question is that the indicators of progress are weak, almost zero and too formal. Progress can't be seen, can't feel, can't feel the citizens of this country's concrete and credible shifts, because the living environment isn't more favourable, nor has it been promoted. Citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we all know that, are not satisfied with the public administration, and we who represent citizens cannot be satisfied with this dynamic and self-expressed declarative desire for promotion. In the report, the Office of Audit on page 8 reminds us of what we have committed and what we have said we will do in the Reform Agenda. The reform agenda for Bosnia and Herzegovina's public administration reform has been identified as one of the priorities for the start-up of the recovery process and modernisation of the economy in order to strengthen sustainable, efficient, social, fair and stable economic growth, job creation, increasing and better targeted distribution of social giving and creating a sustainable and fair social environment, which means that we have conditioned stable economic growth through public administration reform, i.e. it is the same priority to achieve all the other objectives of the Reform Agenda. And what results do we have in public administration reform? None, with 64 teams and the chances of achieving the goals set, are nothing, weak, and are clouded in the trombones of the administration and the slowness of the excessive public administration in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This means that we also have no European path, slow, trom and almost unreachable unless we meet one of the main conditions. And how we will meet the main always for the integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European Union when the way public administration reform projects are prepared is not effective. That's what the review found on this report. The first page of this report stated that the audit showed that the project preparation process was not effective. Only one of the 29 projects planned under the revised action plan was implemented within the deadline, only one. The four projects were implemented with a delay compared to the deadlines on average over two years. So, out of the 29 planned projects, only five have been implemented, all other projects that have not yet been completed, although the deadlines from the action plans have long expired, two to six years late, and whether or not they will end at any time, and that is uncertain. So this is our European path in which we swear, and the authorities very little or do almost nothing to speed up the necessary reform processes. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Our authorities are unable to implement the projects within the deadlines that They set themselves up in action plans, and most interestingly, the financial resources were not questionable in this case. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The time has already expired, very little time for such an important topic and for the reform of the public administration in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in the end, I think it is high time for the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first of all the Council of Ministers, to start doing their job and commit themselves to public administration reform. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Although it seems to me that their time has already passed, but I hope that some new stimuli or new ones, given how we have done so far, will understand their role and speed up these processes that are our condition for European integration. Of course, I support all the recommendations of the revision, although I believe that the same legal obligations of all institutions are at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24135	Thank you, too. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 12, Ad. 12. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: ‘Following the implementation of the impact review recommendations’ – applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-165/18, dated 15.01.2018. The responsible Committee for Finance and Budgets delivered on 20.02.2018. Opinion on the report. The report was accepted and sent to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 13, Ad. 13. Report on the work of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-14-368/18, since 01.02.2018. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24143	Criminal law, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24145	That's it. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24146	If there are no more reports, we move to point 19, Ad. 19. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01,02-02-1-2015/17, of 09.08.2017) The draft law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions was adopted in a different text in the House of Representatives and Peoples, and we should appoint three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text. Are there any specific proposals for members of the Committee? According to the suggestions I received: Predrag Kožul, Amir Fazlić and Lalić Nenad. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. And now, before we move to point 20, I propose a pooling of discussions on items 20 to 30 of the agenda, including item 30 of the agenda, since it is a matter of giving consent to ratification, agreement, contract and protocol.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24148	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24149	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24150	Can't we just take 30 away?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24151	Here, I'm opening a debate on this proposal for unification. Representative Dušanka Majkić, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24152	Well, I ask to leave 30, to exclude, because there are no necessary consultations with Republika Srpska and it is not the position of Republika Srpska, so this vote would be past that stream and I ask that only that item remain for a statement until the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24153	First, we express ourselves on the proposal by Commissioner Dušanka Majkić to exempt from point 30 from this motion for separation. Please make a statement. 68 Out of 26 present – for 11, against 6, abstentions 9. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in the Federation of BiH. Shall we agree?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24154	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24155	Well, we can't, it's your package, you have to do it now, or you're done with the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24156	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24157	So you're done, you can't work...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24158	This is just an exception to one, we'll have to make a statement about another of our proposals. So we can't say about this proposal in the second round, because a colleague doesn't agree afterwards. Now I ask you to move to a plea to bring the debate together by points 20 to 30, including point 30. Of the 26 present – for 13, against 10, abstentions 3. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Are you going to a plea right now or what? Is there a College, can it achieve agreement? [[/consultations in the College.]] ... next session?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24160	Let's go, we won't do it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24161	For the next session?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24162	Yes, including 29 today, and point 30 for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24163	days, 12...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24164	Of the 26 present – 21 against 2, abstentions 3. There's a general and entity majority. 69 I agree that we have united the debate on points 20 to 29, including point 29. Ad. 20. - Ad. 29. Giving consent to ratification of agreements and contracts You've received the opinions of the committee responsible for foreign affairs. I'm opening a debate on these agenda points. There are no reports. I conclude the debate at points 20 to 29, including 29. Since we've delayed, so the statement under point 30, we've exhausted today's session agenda. It's 3:50, what do you want...?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24166	By half past five, let's get some rest.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24167	So, are we going to meet here at the vote at 16:30? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24168	Don't, uh, let's get some rest, so we don't run around all the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24169	Here, look. When we ask, what, say it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At 4:30, don't be late at least, come by at 4:30, so we can all be. That's quite enough. I'll see you at the 16:30 vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24172	This is the second...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24173	You got two-thirds against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24174	It's not. Wait a minute, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24175	That was at the alignment.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24176	Wait a minute, wait a minute. Yes, this is the report from the Committee, I'm sorry, I'm an ambulance, but I haven't been recorded here. So an emergency procedure has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24177	We've adopted an emergency procedure, and now we're voting on the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24178	That's right. Please be careful, I've been watching.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24179	We've adopted an emergency procedure, now...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24180	So we haven't adopted the proposal, we haven't, but here it is. We have a shortage, so we vote on the law, but in the first round. That's right, we're voting on the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24181	The first round of voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24182	The first round and we don't have an ethnic majority in Republika Srpska. Is there a match? 72
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24183	We're going to the polls right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24184	We're going to the second round. I'd like a second round of votes, please. Of the 39 present – 23 for, 16 against, there are no abstentions. With the general majority, I find there are 2/3 in Republika Srpska's entity against and the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Penal Code at the request of Saša Magazinović's representative did not get the necessary majority. Moving to point 9. – Report by the College of Colleges on efforts to reach agreement on the Application of Representatives: Mirsad Mešić, Saša Magazinović and Denis Bećirović to consider the Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, No. 01-02-1-507/18, of 15.02.2018. We're voting on the adoption of the bill. Of the 39 present – for... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat our vote. Of the 39 present – 21 for, 12 against, 6 abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Shall we get to a match right away?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24186	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-03-07-0.u24187	We're going to the second round. Please make a statement in the second round. Of the 39 present – 21 for, 12 against, 6 abstentions. There is a general, but there are 2/3 against the Republika Srpska entity. Proposed law by MP Mirsad Mešić, Saša Magazinović, Denis Bećirović on changes to BiH's election law did not get the required majority. We're going to enter a plea under point 10. – Report from the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Parliamentary Oversight (proposer: Temporary Joint Committee of the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control, Law No: 01,02-02-11348/17, of 26.05.2017). We're voting for adoption of the report. Of the 39 present – 24 for, 6 v, 9 abstentions. 73 In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have adopted the Joint Commission Report of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Parliamentary Control, the Proposer of the Temporary Joint Commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Moving to point 11. – Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: “Efficientness of the preparation of public administration reform projects in BiH” – applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-162/18, since 12.01.2018. We are voting on the adoption of the Report with the conclusion contained in the Opinion of the Competent Committee. Of the 39 present – 23 for, against, there are no, 16 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the Impact Review Report with the conclusions contained in the Opinion of the Competent Committee. Moving to point 12. – Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: ‘Following the implementation of the impact review recommendations’ – applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-165/18, dated 15.01.2018. We're voting for adoption of the report. Of the 39 present – 23 for, 1 against, 15 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the Impact Review Report on the subject: "Following the Implementation of Impact Review Recommendations" by the applicant of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. Moving to point 13. – Report on the work of the Committee for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-14-368/18, since 01.02.2018. We're voting for adoption of the report. Of the 39 present – 24 for, 13 v, 2 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the report on the work of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption for 2017. We are going to enter the plea under point 14. – Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2017, issue: 05/3-50-19-474/18, from 13/02.2018. Of the 39 present – 33 for, no, 6 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the report on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner for 2017. We declare point 15. – Information in the field of direct foreign investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina - applicant: Foreign Investment Promotion Agency in BiH, issue: 01-50-1-15-55/17, link: 01-22-2546/17 of 16. 2. Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/70 is amended as follows: (According to the 55th session of the House of Representatives held on 21.12.2017, 17 and 31.01.2018)). We're voting on receiving this information. Of the 39 present – 16 for, 21 v, 2 abstentions. There's no general majority. I find that we have not received information on direct foreign investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the applicant of the Foreign Investment Promotion Agency in BiH. Moving to point 16. – Proposal for a decision to approve the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency Decision on the establishment of active military personnel in the formation of generals in 74 of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01.02-34-1-564/18, since 21.02.2018. We're voting on confirming the Presidency's decision. Of the 39 present – 21 for, 12 against, 6 abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Shall we get a match? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We're going to the second round. Please make a statement in the second round. Of the 39 present – 21 for, 11 against, 7 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have confirmed the BiH Presidency's decision to place active military personnel in the formation of generals at the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moving to point 17. – Proposal for a resolution of the Deputy Director of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency – Proposer: Committee for the Monitoring of the Work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against Corruption, issue: 05/8-34-1-627/18, dated 06.03.2018. We are voting on the resolution of Deputy Director of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption on 4 March 2018. Of the 39 present – 22 for, 8 against, 9 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have resolved the Deputy Director/Employor, the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, the Proposer of the Commission for the Monitoring of the Work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Co-ordination of the fight against Corruption on 4 March 2018. Point 18. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Supplements to the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, No: 01-02-1-1830/17, of 25.07.2017).). We are voting on the appointment of Nikola Lovrinović, Aleksandra Pandurević and Hazim Rančić to the Joint Commission of the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Of the 39 present – 16 for, 19 v, 4 abstentions. There's no general majority. I find that we have not appointed the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Supplements to the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of MP Aleksandra Pandurević. Point 19. – Appointing three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01,02-02-1-2015/17, of 09.08.2017.). We are voting on the appointment of Predrag Kožul, Amir Fazlić and Nenad Lalić to the Joint Commission of both the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. 75 Of the 39 present – 18 for, 19 v, 2 abstentions. There's no general majority. I find that we have not appointed a Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers. Please, we are now voting on a proposal to declare between 20th and 29th points, including 29th in the package, and it is about giving consent to ratification. Of the 39 present – 27 for, 12 against, there are no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have united the statement on points 20 to 29, including point 29. Now I ask you to plead on points 20 to 29, including point 29, and this is about giving consent to the ratifications of the agreement. Of the 39 present – 28 for, no problem, 11 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have agreed to ratify the agreement at points 20 to 29, including point 29. With this, we exhausted the vote on the agenda of today's session. I conclude the 58th session of the House of Representatives, noting that the next House session is planned on Wednesday 21 March 2018. Thank you for your cooperation. Session completed at 4:55 p.m.
