ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26329	Please take your seats to continue the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honored guests continue the 63rd session of the House of Representatives, which was suspended on July 05, 2018. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The cabinet of Foreign Minister Denis Zvizdić's Presidency and the cabinet of Foreign Minister Igor Crnadko informed us that they were unable to attend this session. The absence from the session was justified by MPs Denis Bećirović, Nenad Lalić, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Ambassador Mirsad Mešić announced a delay. Also MP Momčilo Novaković announced he will not be present at this session. We have currently in the hall of 25 present, so we have a quorum to continue the work. I would like to remind you that the session was interrupted in the context of the debate on item 2 of the agenda, that is – The request of Members Aleksandra Pandurević, Mladen Bosić, Nenad Lalić and Momčilo Novaković to discuss the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Accises in Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-1453/18, since 18.06.2018. The home I adopted in the first part of the session a request for consideration of the draft law by emergency procedure. We're continuing the debate on the bill's proposal. We have a registered MP, Staš Košarac, to correct the wrong allegations. As far as I can tell, Commissioner Košarac is not present in the O.R. We have a registered MP, Salko Sokolović, for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26330	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present in the O.R. So here I was trying to remember what I was going to say last time, because it's been a little while since the day we broke up the session on this agenda point. I want first of all to say that the Independent bloc will support this legislative solution, although here I remind both colleagues and colleagues of parliamentarians and the public, we in the Independent bloc have proposed a law that also has the same name – Amendments and additions to the Act of Accessors, which, in my opinion, is a little bit more correct and more concrete than this legal solution, but, behold, the procedure in Parliament is somewhere along the way to these benches. And I hope that if this law we are considering today does not get support, this is our legal solution or our proposal, we will consider it at the next session scheduled in early September. So here's why we in the Independent Block want to support this proposal today. I hope that everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina is clear now, and also those in particular economic analysts who supported the government's proposal for 100 marks when it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, explaining that it will not come to what happened, which is an increase in fuel price, a threat to the standards of people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that two of them, including all in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are now clear on what was the goal of the government, not to provide funds, and I am now sure that the road, construction of new road infrastructure, would be launched, because obviously we do not have the beginning of new routes of highways or road corrections in entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the goal was to increase VAT inflows. The increase in fuel prices makes sense is that there is also a higher VAT inflow. The funds went to the entity's budgets in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. a canton in the Federation of BiH, and here we had the opportunity to see both entities and cantons working on budget rebalancing. Where were those funds headed? They focused on meeting whether the financial commitments in the 2017 budgets were new employment, but the administration's jobs in those institutions, i.e. to provide funding for the election campaign. Obviously, the law that we passed and the law that is in force and based on whom citizens or all of Bosnia and Herzegovina's pockets are being taken was not meant for a new mile of highway, but this is exactly what it is. And when we talked about the people's said hoarding of budget holes to entities priority, here's what I was talking about can be vividly and because VAT is certainly this significant source of financial resources that came into entity and cantonal budgets through an increase in fuel price and thus helped to bring this fiscal year or this pre-election period to a peaceful end and to get into elections and to somehow provide new funding for the election campaign of those who are at this point in power in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For this reason, it would be correct by the authorities to enter part of the story of the suspension of this legislative project, they have fulfilled their task and have no need at all for future authorities to create a way... of funds to build new road infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26331	Thank you. Mr. Backović here, this is a continuation of the session and you've already had one discussion in the first part of the session, so this is the second discussion and that's why I can't give you a word on the discussion. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26332	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26333	I'm sorry, that's the rules. I'd love to. We don't, we don't have any more charges to discuss. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Proposal for a deposit insurance law in BiH (I.Z. – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-1027/18, since 18.05.2018. (first reading), shortened procedure The bill was submitted with the P.Z.E.I. label. and a request for a shortened legislative procedure. The legislative sector delivered its opinion 24.05.2018. The House College has appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget as competent to consider the bill. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 19.06.2018. Consistency of Proposal 3 of the laws with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system has been established. The Finance and Budget Commission delivered its opinion on 20.06.2018. The principles of the bill are supported. I'm opening a debate. Discussion, Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26335	Thank the chairman. So, I want to say hello to everyone in the O.R., because I'm reporting for the first time, and I want successful work and the end of this session. What is important for this Law is that it is also one of the reform laws that the Fiscal Council, respectively, has directed towards the International Monetary Fund and, under paragraph 37, has set out that this Law will be adopted by the end of 2018. This Law was, therefore, in a set of excise laws and I think it was also unfairly neglected. So, a set of excise laws went according to some urgent procedures and so on, but this law was, therefore, a law that was put aside somewhere. What's important, so I personally think this is one of the laws that this country needs and that the Law has defined in many ways many horrors that have not been regulated. What's the big deal here? So it's important that banks commit to secure their deposits. He defined, therefore, and which are deposits, a deposit of 50,000 marks along with interest is a deposit that this law regulates. The benefits of this law were best felt by citizens of Republika Srpska when it comes to the Bobar Bank and Bank of Serbia, so within a record period, obligations were met, meaning secured deposits to citizens when it comes to the law. So the question of this Law, in my opinion, is not at all controversial, for the simple reason that it defines all those things that are not in previous laws or previous laws, or that were suspicious, or suspicious. This law defines even those things that, who don't have the right to deposit. So, something that has been neglected so far has now been defined, therefore, and one term that is very rarely mentioned, so an income deposit. The future deposit, therefore, is defined by all deposits that are in the bank of one citizen, one person or one economic operator, on 50,000 marks and that is what is very important. It defines, therefore, the non-residents, and defines the minors, so it defines everything that was not clear enough in the previous laws. For that reason, I think this is a law that needs to be supported, and at least I don't think it's in the jurisdiction of anyone. Because we, I heard, or I read the comments that jurisdiction is being transferred. So, this law, I'd like to see a member of the jurisdiction by which they are transferred. This, the Deposit Agency has existed before with its powers, there has been a Banking Agency with its powers, so these two laws continue, the Law on the Entity Banking Agency and the Deposit Act, therefore, are still not the opposite, but are even more compatible and I think this is something that needs to be supported. Thank you very much. Here's what happens if there's anything else...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26336	Thank you. Discussion, Dušanka Majkić. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26337	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests. 4 This has finally come to the turn of the last set of laws on banks for which the leadership of this country and entities signed the International Monetary Fund. And for a long time, we've been in a lot of disdain over other laws, and that law is in the same position. There was a transfer of competence of the first version of this Act, and this transfer of competence concerned that it was intended for the Agency to monitor the operations of the Member States continuously, and supervision was carried out on the basis of the quality standards prescribed by its Governing Board of the Agency. This Republika Srpska could not accept, because it was a direct intrusion into its jurisdiction and after that correction of the new bill no longer contains that possibility, it remained an entity's jurisdiction and therefore it also got consent from our side. What are his greatest values, why do we think we should support this bill? The first news is that foreign banks will no longer be able to raise money from the country as they have done so far. So we're aware of what was going on, given that all our banks were mostly foreign to us, all the money was coming out of the country, so the domestic deposits went out of the country. Where will the money end? In a fund to be formed, it's the first major newspaper. The second thing, that money will be able to reconstruct the banks when the banks get into trouble, and now we haven't had that kind of opportunity. So we have a fund to be used to save banks, not primarily to pay off deposits, as we've done so far. So he's trying to save the bank. Secondly, the law benefits all natural and legal persons, meaning savings and businesses in the case of a financial breakdown of banks and they get a large share of their money. So that's another extra security we haven't had so far. Who makes the decision on where the money will be used? It brings the Deposit Insurance Agency's Management Board, consisting of the Governor of the Central Bank, the finance minister and the BiH Treasury, entity finance ministers or those tasked by it, members of the Management Board may also be representatives of entity banking agencies but without the right to vote. The deposit insurance agency, its primary task is to provide adequate deposits for natural and legal persons in banks, then issue and withdraw membership certificates, invest funds that form a fund for the insurance of credits in the event of termination of bank work and participation in the reconstruction of banks. So, there are a few important things we haven't had so far, and this law can fix these things in the financial sector of banking. There are a few things that I think should work on them and that the law didn't cover them, and I wish the minister had that in mind. First, I think it is necessary to supplement the provisions on the appointment of the Director of the Deposit Insurance Agency and the Directors of the branches on the basis of the implementation of the public competition in the manner provided for by the Law on Ministrys and Names in the Council of Ministers and other appointments, and to define the conditions for their name of the novelty. We don't have a word about how we choose and who our people can apply for a contest to choose these personalities. It is also foreseen that the Deposit Insurance Agency should report to someone, according to this one, it is now not reporting to anyone. As the Central Bank submits a report to the Parliamentary Assembly, it is the order to submit such an important agency. So that's the thing. There are a few more, allowing funds to be used to invest in securities of value and a few things that I think might be an improvement in this law. Thus, if this Law is to be experienced Your procedure, so I'm in favour of upholding the principles of the law. [[the speaker was warned on time]] The question is, are we going to have time to get another reading, and that means that in that case, the Law could end... I don't believe he'll come into that position to get a second reading and eventually pass the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26338	Thank you. 5 Discussion, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26339	I thank the chairman. First of all, I regret to say that I don't already know which time we're getting the same law that we've referred to here a number of criticisms without changing the point or the point, and it's about a law that's very badly translated from English, which is obviously not written in these institutions. Find me a law in Bosnia and Herzegovina in which a member writes, and I am surprised that then SNSD colleagues support it – the state is Bosnia and Herzegovina. If it's a state or a state community, I'm asking my colleagues from the SNSD. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I mean, don't argue, I don't know what SDSD leader Milorad Dodik will say about this. So you have totally senseless definitions in the law. The second point, Article 23(1), points (b) and (c), point (2) shall be fully transferred to the Agency, entities for banking to this Agency. The third thing, which speaks of a very bad translation from the English language, the composition of the Management Board, is said to have five members, the Central Bank Governor, the finance minister and the BiH vault or persons who are authorized by the Execution are members of the Management Board. They can't be members of the board of directors' exofficiencies, they can be governor and finance minister. This is about a bad English translation. Furthermore, it is said that there are five members, so we have two execs, there are three left, and then in the position (4) says – The Management Board can appoint, the Central Bank Management Board can appoint one member, and the other two members name entity finance ministers. What if the Management Board, since it is given the will to "can name", if the Central Bank Management Board does not appoint, so we have 2:2, how are we going to make decisions there? And not to say that this Law gives both criminal and civil and legal impunity, which is unseen, means that... legal immunity to someone for the abuses they commit, which is a damage that can result from citizens and the state, an unprecedented material damage. So this is a very bad law and whoever translated it better translate it into a spirit with our language, so next time, let him guide it. As far as we're concerned, this law will have no support because it's very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26341	Thank you. Discussion, Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26342	Dear chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, finance ministers. I want to welcome the director of the agency to a colleague of the Nevjestić who, I think, has come here a dozen times to explain or to resolve any inconsistencies in the Law. Thank you, Director, for being here. But this is the full irresponsibility of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly representative council. 6 If we had adopted the first and second readings at the level of the task, we would have adopted this Law and not politically outwitted and possibly brought Bosnia and Herzegovina's financial sector into trouble. I have to say that there were several calls that this agency successfully solved and by the old law, for a time I was a member of the Management Board when secured deposits were paid in two banks in Republika Srpska and before that, I think, in one bank in the Federation. And much more developed countries, when banks or system banks fail, have major problems, and this has been done without great stress, and all the depositors have been compensated in a lawfully limited amount. This has nothing to do with the arrangement of the International Monetary Fund formally, but it has to do with it because the authorities have promised to adopt this Law and to adopt amendments to the Banks Act, and therefore cannot be monitored in banking by international standards without being followed by the Deposit Insurance Agency. And if this country honestly thinks it is going the European way and becoming a member of the European Union, then it must also respect those international standards in the area of banking. If Bosnia and Herzegovina stays in that sector beyond those standards we will have problems adopting not to adopt this Law. That's why I think if today's representative council wants to be at the height of the task, this is according to the shortened procedure, that you need to connect the first and second readings and finally adopt this Law. All those who have some suggestions are not prohibited from writing amendments at the next session. But let's do a good one, for me a good one, and a serious one. This has been discussed since I was a finance minister, and this is what my colleague Bevanda knows, and there are at least adjustments in this Law compared to all other laws that are part of the arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. And again, this is not done for the International Monetary Fund but for the safety of depositors, citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And come on, so my call is if there are no more serious objections than this political squawk transfer, no transfer of jurisdiction, so now some big concern, you understand, and when the Deposit Insurance Agency paid depositors in Republika Srpska, then it wasn't a transfer of jurisdiction. So, I ask today if we are at the height of the task let us adopt this Law in the first and second readings, that is my suggestion if there is a political mood. If we want to compete further, we work outside the interests of the citizens they have, and we have read almost what it is, what are the deposits of saving citizens in banks and in the Federation and in Republika Srpska. I reiterate the absolute irresponsibility of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. So, according to system-based legal projects, we've always dealt with politics, and today I feel like we're getting into that sphere. And I say once again my proposal is to combine first and second readings, to adopt this Law and finally, we have no problem, therefore, to apply international standards as we apply them in banking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26343	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26344	I thank the chairman. I see that the transfers of competence have become political squawks, not unitaryisation and centralisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, evolution in the position of colleagues. We have no objection to the transfer of jurisdiction, but in accordance with the Constitution, let the National Assembly 2/3 say that it supports this Law. Here we have soon a session of the National Assembly, August 14, no rush, and here I am now saying that my colleagues, among other things, will be looking for an extension of the agenda and for this law to be a point. And if the National Assembly of 2/3 says that this is okay, there's no problem. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26345	Thank you. Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26346	I'm stupid to be the one to talk about this thing with Aleksandar Pandurević, with all the respect of every MP in this House of Representatives. This is a profession. This is what Aleksandra Pandurević doesn't understand. That's what I have to say. And let us once not be doctors of general practice, let us respect sometimes and profession and, behold, let it be sought to delay the adoption of this law, I don't know where the Serbian Democratic Party began trading now when it fell to two out of six. So, loses, everything loses its meaning slowly. And I've been in these institutions for 20 years, and I have to tell you that there's never been less energy for reform and for projects, never less, and there's been some progress, about the success of this country. If this is how the Parliamentary Assembly continues, it holds the institution's shut-down key, believe me. And let's get out of that one kid. Okay, let's talk about whether the transmission isn't a transmission, let's get people to do what's useful. We will remain in discussion with the Serbian Democratic Party and in time ahead of us, but I ask others why they become slaves to the same story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26347	Thank you. Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26348	The Honorable Chairman. So, if the SDS considers this to be a transfer of competence, and it is the original jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it should launch a proposal to amend the BiH Constitution at this session. So this is just manipulation... The original jurisdiction is the monetary policy of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina including this Law which is part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26349	Thank you. We don't have any more charges to discuss. Let's go to point three, not point four, Ad. 4. Before the draft amending law, there was no addition of the Law on the flag of BiH – Proposer: MP Saša Magazinović, number: 01-02-1-1206/18, since 16.05.2018. (first reading), shortened procedure The proposal for a law has been submitted in a procedure with a request for review under the urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure of the 61st session, held on 17.05.2018, did not accept an emergency procedure request, it was decided to consider the draft law in accordance with the provisions governing the shortened procedure. The House College has been appointed by the Constitutional Legal Commission as competent to consider the draft law. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 19.06.2018. The Commission established the consistency of the draft law with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system and supported the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Discussion, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26351	Dear Chairmans and deputies, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I welcome you all. And, here, I will save time for all of us, since we've already discussed this law when we talked about whether it will be an emergency procedure or the one we've defined ourselves for. I will just remind myself that the current Law, which was first imposed in 1998, was then confirmed and amended twice by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in 2001 and 2004, clearly prescribed the appearance and dimensions of the flag, as well as the criminal provisions. The Act's annex also requires the flag to be pointed out in a horizontal position, it is never clear how the flag is placed in a vertical position, thinking that the legislator would probably think that we should all know the lexiological rules. Once again, I repeat what I said at the previous session, mainly when it comes to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the flag stands out correctly, but not defining that way in the Law alone gives people freedom to make some of their conclusions, some of their logic, and then the fact that there are many places, and even by institutions mostly at lower levels of government situations where the flag is placed upside down. The Association of Citizens, the Association of Heraldic Society of Boson made one draft, people of the profession went one step further so they not only treated the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also cited examples from the region, made this bill that went into the procedure. I thank you for understanding the members of the Constitutional Commission, thank you for adopting this Law, and I believe that this is not a crucial law for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but important for a single image of Bosnia and Herzegovina, since it is rare that institutions at different levels are also calling themselves ignorant of this area. No one has to know that, not everyone has to know everything, but if that's the case, then let's define it in the law itself. And, here, the chairman's back is the right flag. In one sentence, it was added to further define the law. Here, I'm gonna stop here and I don't think we have much of a need for a wider debate since we've already done it once.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26352	Thank you. Discussion, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26353	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, distinguished guests, fellow MPs. 9 A few sentences concerning the symbols, namely the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In fact, it is good to describe the question of the flag itself in more detail, and this flag is imposed, and otherwise the flags themselves contain a certain kind of emotion and I think it is necessary to say a few sentences in general about this Law and in general when it comes to symbols in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so, when it comes to emergency procedures, we have considered whether we will consider whether we will take an emergency procedure or in a regular procedure. I am grateful to the MPs for accepting a shortened procedure which is practically the first, so second reading and this is an opportunity for a few more things to be resolved as part of the issue of symbols in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I recommend that when it comes to the very formulations to use them subsequently for what is in Official Messenger 19/1 which he himself mentioned, Official Messenger No 23/04. Namely, in a member, let's say, 3rd, the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina is, etc., so that you can adjust your contents in accordance with the other text, so that here where you write the national flag stands the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina..., etc., etc.,... the basic text and I believe that you will be able to accept that fact. What I would also like to say, and regarding the symbols in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the few states that also had a dispute before the Constitutional Court over the flag of Republika Srpska. Given the current political discussions on symbolism in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representations and everything else, I expect to define the issue of symbols in the House of Representatives' premises, i.e. the House of Representatives' Hall and the House of People's Hall as part of the debate. I believe that the flag of the entity, i.e. the flag of Republika Srpska, the Federation, the Brcko District, such as in other countries where the provinces are present, where the regions are present, etc., and this would in itself indicate that Bosnia and Herzegovina is composed of two entities and three constituent peoples and in an adequate manner presented in the House of Representatives. We come from the Republika Srpska electoral unit, and as such, I think there is no reason not to require that there is a flag of Republika Srpska in this room that has passed everything, including those procedures. The only dispute in the world that was led against, when it comes to symbols, was the symbol of the flag of Republika Srpska, coat of arms and anthem. The coat of arms and anthem has been disputed, a completely different anthem has been brought to Republika Srpska and an emblem that is different, and the flag of Republika Srpska at the BiH Constitutional Court as such is legal and legitimate. Since it is legal and legitimate, and we come from Republika Srpska, it is perfectly legal and legitimate that the flag of Republika Srpska stands here, and not only in this hall, but also in the House of Peoples. It should be, first of all, good for all those who advocate, first of all, legality, legitimacy, and I believe that this kind of initiative is something that will support all, that there are no disputes between Bosnia and Herzegovina that it is like this or that, it is as defined by the Dayton Agreement, composed of two entities, three constitutive peoples, has the Brcko District, and as such it should also be presented in the representative institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I therefore call on my colleagues to support this kind of initiative here in these rooms and in the rooms of the House of Peoples, there are flags to be presented, among other things, to the Republic of Serbia, the Federation, the Brcko District. All this contentiousness when it comes to symbols, I call on colleagues who are political representatives where they change and bring you symbols to approach it, but what is not disputed, and all the procedures in Bosnia and Herzegovina have passed, including the BiH Constitutional Court, to subsequently refer to it in such a way. I believe that this initiative will have the support of all, because it will not be disputed either Bosnia and Herzegovina, and at least it will not be disputed Republika Srpska as an integral part of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I believe that this will be a message from those who tomorrow represent the way they see Bosnia and Herzegovina in the future. It's high time we put things in real terms, the way they are, and I believe this kind of initiative will find its place, since we're talking about principles now. We can solve this, ultimately, by concluding or deciding the House of Representatives, and thus this issue can be resolved. 10 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26354	Thank you. Mensura Beganović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26355	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. I know this may not be the time for this law, we have a lot of laws, but if we have a long-standing problem with the vertical flaging of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then it's really time to fix it. However, I am sorry that the proposer in Article 5a (2) has made an oversight or failure, I do not know how, that, in fact, by this attitude, if such an axis of tan, we legalize the setting of the flag in a vertical position as it should not be, and that is to be a symbol of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is this triangle that is a symbol of the geographical appearance of Bosnia and Herzegovina, upside down, and so on the subject is written about how the rust is upside down, how we have surrendered, etc., etc. So I proposed one amendment, I delivered it 20 or 30 days ago, I don't know either, because this is the third session that prolongs the discussion of this law, in which I completely changed attitude (2) and defined it to, will not be used by a vexillological rule for placing a flag in a vertical position that cannot be applied on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are other states where the symbols on the flag are such that the flag cannot, by simple rotation from horizontal to vertical position in the direction of clock motion, be converted into the appropriate appearance of the flag. For example, let's say, Montenegro, look. In this case, the rule cannot be applied and the flag for the vertical position attached to the mast must be specifically produced. One more thing, here is an opportunity to correct, and that is to define, when what you're putting on the spear, that it must not be horizontally, but must be cut against the horizon by at least 45 degrees, because we will again have the same case, that the flag from horizontal turns to vertical appearance, which is wrong, in our case is not even enforceable. So that I don't create a bigger confusion, I'll read it to make that position look (2). Therefore, Article 5a) in the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the flag should read as follows – the mast of the horizontal flag may be cut, but not more than 45 degrees, because in the event of a complete shooting of the horizontal flag, an unauthorized effect is obtained. The Bosnia and Herzegovina's vertical flag is prepared specifically by providing in a vertical position a picture that corresponds with the horizontal flag and with the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In order to avoid confusion, I have drawn in this amendment a sketch of what it looks like and what happens if we leave this position (2) in the form of how the promoter gave it, so I pray that, here, the amendment is shared with the MPs, if we put together a random discussion in the first and second readings today, to adopt it in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26356	The amendment phase is in the second reading, but I didn't want to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26357	I'm sorry, we put together today... about one law, so if that happens here, I'd ask that today and this amendment be taken into account. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26358	Okay, thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26359	There is time to the amendment phase so that everyone will be able to write what they think, and colleague Beganović is one of the many who have their own opinions on how the flag stands out correctly and I also had this opinion until the people who have the profession sat down to explain it to me, and even to ask me not to point out that little flag upside down in my office. And I think it would be good, so it's not an accident on, let's say, in front of the OHR building that imposed this flag, the flag is reported exactly as it is in the bill's proposal. It is not by chance for my colleague, Beganović, to be in the state institutions of all, an informal instruction he has, which has since '98. It has, shows how the flag stands out and that's how we stand out. It is no coincidence that in all international sports events the flag is highlighted just as it says in the law. But here, if it makes you feel any better, I was exactly the same as you and wrongly, so here I confess my mistake as an MP in the state parliament, mislining the flag, here on the desk in the office. But it has a waist, and it has a subjective opinion, and I'd like us to focus a little bit more on what the waist says, so if you need the opinion of the one who created the flag, and you have the opportunity to find the attitudes of those who were working on creating the flag just... And right now, here, this debate of ours is an additional reason. Which is why the law needs to be passed. [[the speaker is warned on time]] If we agree that a 45 degree flag is placed everywhere, let it be written and all set it the same, but what we have today is very ugly.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26360	Thank you. Salko Sokolović, correcting the wrong quote. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26361	Thank you, Chairman. Correction of the false allegations to Mr. Borislav Bojić because he said in his statement that Bosnia and Herzegovina is made up of entities. I don't think we have the need, here, at these points of the agenda to raise such questions, we're telling the truth, we're already solving the problem how and how to set the flag. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a unique space, and within it they exist within their borders of municipalities, cantons and entities, and this is defined by the Dayton Peace Agreement. Therefore, to say that Bosnia and Herzegovina is either a community or it is made up of entities or, tomorrow, someone will say, from the canton, I don't think it's necessary and should respect this country and find, here, a concrete solution to this problem that we're talking about today, and how and how to position the flag, and to be all kind of satisfied. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26362	12 Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26363	Thank you. As for the proposal, the initiative or, I don't know exactly what it was, Mr. Borislav Bojić, uh, I would, above all, like to expose the entity flags to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I think it is necessary to read first the text of the Law as it is now, before such initiatives are offered, because the Law on the flag of BiH currently states, i.e. the obligation to apply the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, among other things, for the sake of the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, etc., etc., and prescribes all situations where the flag's emphasis is mandatory, and then very clearly says - in all cases from the previous position, which includes this Parliamentary assembly, other flags from Bosnia and Herzegovina will not stand out together with the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, the law made it very clear that in buildings, including the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the second stop from Bosnia and Herzegovina will not stand out together with the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And such an initiative not only has no place, it's completely uninformed. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26364	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26365	Thank you. The state that is mine, and I hope yours, has a constitution. The Constitution, called the Dayton Peace Agreement, and within which the Constitution is also defined an internal arrangement, internal relations and temporary institutions until the final implementation of the complete Dayton Peace Agreement. And I would ask you as chairman and chairman, for you change, that in the future you impose, the word imposed, at that moment you exclude those who say so. What we say is legally imposed. It's an official symbol of my country. It's something that represents here and beyond the borders of my country the symbol of my country. The fact that we, the previous composition of this Parliament, are incompetent or politically insolent and do not want them to pass something or some laws, regulations and so on, it does not relieve us of the obligation that what is legal is not fully respected. And you can't talk about forced. It was published in the Official Journal and it's official. If this continues soon, we will have everything imposed, imposed by Parliament, imposed by the High Representative, it is only legal that The authorities within the entity, or there will be little more tyrants, impose on the people, and that will be to keep quiet and give them dry bread and games. [[the speaker is warned on time]] We're getting more and more games and fun, and less and more lives and more outflows of people just because of these things. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26366	Thank you. Mensura Beganović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26367	I need to replicate to my colleagues, Magazinović. I agree, I respect the profession and what the profession prescribes makes sense, but here's the logic in front of the profession. I have to admit, when you look at what happens when you rotate the horizontal flag in a vertical 90 degree, we get what's upside down. The vexillological rule, too, has exceptions, I am talking here about that the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina is an exception to that rule and that it should be defined differently in the law, so I have made an amendment that defines it to the end. The flag producer for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is placed in Bosnia and Herzegovina very often, are not producers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Someone there in China is perfectly whatever that triangle means, and it is very important to us, it is a geographical symbol of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we can't turn it upside down, it's always gotta be turned around so it's longer, or whether it's the hypotenuse left, on the left side, or the stars next to that, whether it's a horizontal or vertical version of the flag. I don't see what's going on here, what further we can consult when it's logically very simple to solve this problem. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26368	Thank you. Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26369	The chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. I get the feeling that we're always a few months or two before the elections trying to delegate topics that increase political temperature. For four years, I think it was enough to pay attention to this problem. The issue of symbols is not irrelevant in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but at this point it is not important, except to add excess political energy regardless of who is discussing it. And when we look at Bosnia and Herzegovina, those who dispute and say, I don't think that my colleague Bojić slowed the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina in his proposal, it didn't occur to him, but my people, where we live, so don't we understand that Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law is not a unique political space? It was neither a single economic space nor yet, and that is why harmonisation of laws from the economic sphere is required, in order to ensure the same conditions for business people working in Republika Srpska or working in the Federation of BiH. I guess that's clear to all of us. And if I were you... I'd accept this proposal. Let's say once what we are and who we are. It's important for me not to slow down the border, and if the internal arrangement is going to be experiencing changes, it will, in which direction it will evaluate, it doesn't know. And if we are not able to conduct a serious debate, take the local communities in which they use symbols, cantons, counties, entities, therefore, we need to arrange areas. This area is not going to be settled, so today I'm going to save energy, not go too far into politics, even though the issue of symbols is both, but I think this is a reasonable solution. Why does it bother us that we have a flag of environments followed by two entities and a Brcko? Why would anyone mind when it's the essence of Dejton, electoral legislation? And now we think that the stories, when we tell Bosnia and Herzegovina is a unique political space, we think that we will make life easier for the citizens? And in order to get... And that was the promise of this call, about economic issues, not before the elections to argue further. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26370	14 Borislav Bojić, the correction of the wrong allegations, I apologize, Mirsad Đonlagić, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Deputy Chairman. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues. Well, this looks kind of weird to me. We started here to discuss the flag, how it should be positioned. Those who didn't ask the flag, they don't know, which is the problem, it's really a very serious problem, and I think we need to free that debate from all of the other things, the character of the state, whether the state, isn't a state, a single space, an ununited space, composed of two entities, whatever you want, but it's contaminating an idea, to define the correct flag setting. And I call on you to, behold, at the end of our term, not be consistent and principled that in discussing a problem we load a thousand problems and we cannot solve any of the problems that we have put to ourselves as a need to talk about it. Let's concentrate on that if we want to pass that law as it is proposed, to define the position of the flag. I, to tell you straight to the thirst, every time the match of the Bosnia and Herzegovina team, is a serious problem, no one knows how this flag should be set, the Internet is consulted, there can be, as it were, allowed, not allowed, therefore, there is no clearly defined position of the flag. I invite all of us to be cooperative and concrete and to be really as focused as possible on the question as to how it is defined and how it is set up here in front of us, and not to expand the debate now and, as counterpart Špirić says, we now go into history and go back and complicate things, complicated things. That to me, my impression is that we don't really want to discuss whether the flag should be placed in the spirit of proposition, rules, professions and sciences, whatever you want. It's really one very serious thing and I think we should be very specific and very short. That's it. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26372	Thank you. Borislav Bojić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26373	I'll try very briefly and specifically. So, even at the end of my mind, it's either to challenge anything. I will just read to you a fellow member of the Constitution who says – Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of two entities, consisting or composed of me it is identical, but it consists, it is written in the Constitution, I used the wording of the Constitution. Secondly, here we are discussing an esteemed colleague of principles, so we are talking about principles, and when the flag is said, it is a symbol. Simobile itself is an emotion, and it should represent constituent peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's very difficult in this symbol to recognize you. I do not trouble the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it did not occur to me, nor did I ask for the flag of Republika Srpska to be placed in front of the building or on the building, counterpart Arnaut, but where we were elected representatives from Republika Srpska, here in the rooms of the House of Representatives, where we are sitting. There should be the flag of Republika Srpska, the flag of the Federation, the Brcko District, etc., here, in this room, because that clearly presents a problem for you. It should also stand in the House of Peoples, a modest requirement that says, there is no dispute between Bosnia and Herzegovina, but there is no dispute in the Republika Srpska either. It's a correct proposal, an extremely correct proposal. So, not even on my mind, it didn't occur to me to comment... If 15 we were to do so, then we would start with... the King's Company, and we would talk about how the nations are recognized there, where at the throne temple of King's Company on one side there are three two-headed eagles, and on the other side three hidden or lilies as they say, all nations would look for their symbols in heraldic or history and that would be presented on the symbols of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I didn't get into that part. So, I've come only from the fact that this is Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with the constitutions, which consists of two entities and these components in symbolic terms in the House of Representatives and in the House of Peoples should be represented in an adequate manner. What's the problem? This will not challenge Bosnia and Herzegovina, but some who dispute Republika Srpska will not dispute the Republic of Serbia and have nothing to talk about when Nice and rightly done here in this room. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Here, that's it, I think I've made it clear to the end. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26374	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26375	The Honorable Chairman. We have on the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the flag relating to two segments. One is the position of the flag, and the other is the criminal provisions. And if counterpart Bojić wants to talk about other things, he can propose legislation at any time. But what he's talking about today is not on the agenda and it's not part of this law, but I think I'm thinking about what this is all about and it's true that the election campaign is close, but I want to remind you of the next thing. We've been having a few last sessions, not to say a few months, stretching out two agenda points that make up one session, and then there are sessions in the sequels. If this Law had been discussed when proposed, it would not have been burdened with a pre-election campaign. So he was not proposed yesterday, but simply not here the law cannot come to the agenda because of the pace this Parliament has. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26376	Thank you. Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26377	Let me just say it for a second. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the flag, and only one segment is wanted, it must also be in the title. If only the position of the flag is subject, then the amendments to the law, therefore, to the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the position of the flag. So when people lead all the way to nonsense, but when the flag is mentioned, it takes all the segments and that's why I am in favour of this or going into the regular procedure and respecting this. We from Republika Srpska come under the flag of Republika Srpska to the BiH Parliament. Not why the problem is now. Under Election Law, it's people like that, and that's why I said this adds to the political temperature of nonsense, and then we give up this story, or everyone will tell their story, and we won't come to a solution. That's why I said, excessive political temperatures, but the flag law implies everything about flags, from the looks of it, is it adopted, is it imposed, is it emotional, etc. Thank you very much. 16 SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26378	Thank you. Borislav Bojić, correcting the wrong allegations. It says here there's a third, but the secretary tells me it's a second, because it's something wrong once... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26379	... The Rules of Procedure, so I don't want much and I really don't intend to. I think this kind of message from the House of Representatives is going to be exactly the political atmosphere that has been talked about here in the state that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs, and should not be denied by Bosnia and Herzegovina, and should not be denied by the Republic of Srspka and the message should go away from here of this species that I have suggested and it does not bother anyone. These people are perfectly normal and completely rational and without any problems, and this needs both of them to accept each other and the third. The fact that someone doesn't want to talk about it in itself says that he has no intention, first of all, he just wants to go through what he thinks is right. It would be good if it were good for all those sitting in this room. There is no reason to deny Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor deny it, but there is no reason not to present Republika Srpska in this room, I do not speak, repeat, I know how to pass the flag of Republika Srpska to be brought here in front of that one. She's legal, can she be found in stadiums, say, like all over the Federation? Hardly, I won't talk about it, but what I can talk about, can be us who are reasonable people and who need to send a reasonable and rational message, let people find a solution that will, above all, send a message to both Republika Srpska and all of Bosnia and Herzegovina that things are the way they are. This is Bosnia and Herzegovina, which consists of two entities and is symbolically presented in both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. Here, that was the essence of what I suggested and nothing else. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26380	Thank you. Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26381	Thank you, Chairman. Reading the agenda and this formulation, it's about first reading, so we're discussing the principle. I understand what the proposal is and, of course, there are different attitudes when it comes to it. We don't want to definitely touch anyone's emotions, no one's intention this time, but we want to look at in one objective way exactly what the flag means, what the identity means, what the symbols mean, and that simply very precisely and clearly, we say that any way that there is a statement of the law in the first reading, I guess by the session, by September 4, there will be plenty of room for a certain kind of amendment phase, etc. In the final position, we will not give up on the official institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina such as the House of Representatives Hall and other halls, the House of Nations, etc., along with the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the flag of Republika Srpska, the Federation, the Brcko District, etc. I don't think anyone eliminates anyone, no one does, I'd say, no offense to any kind of emotion, but I have to say that we want to be visible symbols of Republika Srpska here and that will be the subject of all of our future political debates when it comes to symbols, anything else. I want to point out today when you enter the Council of the People of Republika Srpska, there is a flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't know how it is, properly or incorrectly, turned, but there is. In the 17th National Assembly of Republika Srpska, there is a stop in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I see no reason why there would be no flag of Republika Srpska here. It is our political right, constitutional law, we have absolutely no ambition of any other kind, but you must understand that they exist, some of the structures of politics that challenge the Republic of Serbia, are sitting in the BiH Parliament. We will not give up our right to demand that in the official premises, the halls of the Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and some other institutions be visible. In addition to the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the prominent and flag of Republika Srpska respecting, I suppose, and an entity called the Federation and the Brcko District which I also believe should be visible in all these places. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26382	Thank you. Nermina Kapetanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26383	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think the proposaler's intention was quite correct and clear. I totally figured it out. Speakers, part of the Republika Srpska speaker, simply calling for the need... of the atmosphere and the water spilling on the oil in a politically high pre-election cap, have said a number of qualifications for which I do not see a place. I didn't hear Mr. Magazinović, Mrs. Mensura, or anyone to challenge the Republika Srpska flag at all, but there are other things. We too find some things annoying from the Federation, e.g. No interview from Republika Srpska's chairman, the prime minister's office, has been done without the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina in its background. Secondly, when you enter Republika Srpska, you cannot conclude that you have entered if you enter from Croatia to conclude that you have entered Bosnia Hercegovina, by absolutely nothing. It is said welcome to Republika Srpska, it does not say welcome to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Without intending to irritate you absolutely, I think the same arches must be. Niko of us respects the existence of Republika Srpska at all, nor is it possible because it is guaranteed by the Dayton Peace Agreement. Manipulation of expressions that Bosnia and Herzegovina's community of states, according to President Dodik, is often the president of the smaller bh entity, is not the community of states. Republika Srpska has never been a state or will ever be a state. And I mean, it's a good intention of Mr. Magazinović, and even colleagues who are affirmative... I understand what Mrs. Beganović was saying, I think the good intention has been turned back into politics which is just like us. Personally, I think this text has to be done, it would be very good to do it, and it's very strange how flags are placed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, what everything is done with the flag, flags fall And this sentence will end, in a border canton with a ZE-Do Canton, it is very difficult to conclude that you are in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you always think you are in Croatia. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So then a child, say, 10 years old asks if this is what we're going to the sea, because he doesn't see the flags of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but he does. see the flags of Croatia. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, there's been a completely wrong debate, and I think that this, in the amendment phase, needs to be done better. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26384	Thank you. Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26385	I'd like to refer to a part of the exhibition, Mrs. Kapetano Vic. I appreciate that you had some kind of good intentions, but I would like to remind you that the constitutional jurisdiction of Republika Srpska, and this Republika Srpska, in a quality way, is that it has its law on the symbols of Republika Srpska and all that has been done when it comes to the Republika Srpska flag, its symbols and anthem, was done in accordance with the applicable law and the Constitution of Republika Srpska. I would like to point out to all those present that there was a ruling by the Constitutional Court of BiH in 2014 when an anthem and flag change was sought, i.e. to hymns and flags of Republika Srpska, i.e. the Anthem and the coat of arms of Republika Srpska. Both Republika Srpska and its institutions then, I think, in 2015, in which all political structures were participated, made a decision also in line with the law and recommendations, i.e. the ruling of the Constitutional Court of BiH in 2014 articulated everything that no symbol of Republika Srpska today offends any people living in Republika Srpska. The Constitutional Court's decision has been fully implemented. It was not easy for us, but we did so in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with our political commitment, and today Republika Srpska shows all its symbols in accordance with the Constitution, in a dignified way, in accordance with, in the end, with all those elements that stood in the ruling of the BiH Constitutional Court in 2014. Please, we have the right to ask for our identity, and we identify ourselves with the flag of Republika Srpska, to be present in BiH institutions, here in this room. It's nothing that could produce any other qualifications. It's our right. Did other political structures in the second part of Bosnia and Herzegovina develop this need for the Federation to have it I don't know, whether they needed to develop much more Bosnia and Herzegovina and together and... in this domain and not..., I really don't know, but don't deny us the right to talk about it just when the story of the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina opened. I think it's our legitimate right to comply. with the Constitution and all other acts, we advocate this issue here and we are completely transparently saying that we will not give up the fact that there will be a flag of Republika Srpska in this room in the future. [[the speaker is warned on time]] We don't mind the Federation flag. our right. [[the speaker is warned on time]] SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26386	Thank you, Lazar Prodanović, for correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26387	Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Nermini Kapetanović. So, I have no problem discussing the bill's proposal, I think it best explained the problem of this amendment to the law by a respected colleague, uh, Mensura Beganović. But there's one thing I have to say. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina's highest legislative body should respect the constitutional decree. Neither is Republika Srpska RS nor is it a smaller bh entity, it is a Republika Srpska entity in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Don't let us, and then, continuously, so I can understand, neither will the media qualification of anything in Bosnia and Herzegovina change, nor will we go to the citizens based on these special epithets that we give to names within Bosnia and Herzegovina. And then don't be surprised if we say BiH, if we say the community of the state, or the state union of two entities... _________(?) 19 [[no microphone turned on]] Ma, so what I think would be fair to respect constitutional names, that it is Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH, that canton is not 1,2,3,5 or 10,... their exact name. In that sense, we would show that we respect even the basic vu we have chosen in this country. I think we should have enough sensitivity to the attitudes of anything. How is it possible, then, to start a story about the use of the flag or the traits, if this is how they are referred to as qualifications. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26389	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26390	I thank the chairman. Well, I don't know now why now, all of a sudden, a few months before the election, this kind of struggle to get entity flags into this room. Here, and the Rules of Procedure adopted in 2014 by votes, among other things, all of these parties said in Article 194. – The national anthem is intonated and the coat of arms and flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina stand out in the conference halls of the House and the rooms of the Members' clubs. We had, for a year, this Commission for Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedures in the past and this year, and I have not heard a single proposal from any club, and all the clubs had a representative in this Commission to amend the Rules of Procedure, not a single proposal from any club to introduce entity flags, or to amend this member of the Rules of Procedure which says that the flag of state stands out here, to change the way the entity flags are introduced. And all of a sudden now these suggestions. Therefore, when this Rules of Procedure was won, you did not have these proposals in 2014, when the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure were made, and only now do you highlight them, and I remind you that I have never seen a proposal that would amend the provisions of the BiH flag law that says that no entity, or other flags from Bosnia and Herzegovina, stand out with the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26391	Thank you. Nemirana Kapetanović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26392	Dear counterpart Prodanović, for one second, I had no intention of denying the existence of Republika Srpska by expressing the fact that it was a territorially small entity than the Federation. I am not slow at all, I am not trying to end the Dayton Peace Accords, but you should understand that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who love the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina are deeply bothered by the denial that comes from your political party, which says that Bosnia and Herzegovina does not exist at all and that it is a community of two states, Republika Srpska, that the Republic of Serbia is a state. Please don't tell me the president of your political party didn't say that 20. He said in every interview, and it's very unclear why he's running for elections, but that's the second one, for a country he doesn't believe in and who he claims doesn't exist. I had no intention at all, therefore, to deny the existence of Republika Srpska, the fact that it had its symbols, its signs, but we were significantly away from what was the fundamental intensity of the promoter. I objectively think that this bill should be completed, not defined in the way it should be fully defined, I think it should be done and it was not a good time to go at this time with this proposal. It's a shame Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't even have an anthem, I ask who's to blame for it too. And there are more things that should not be opened in such a sensitive political period. And my intention wasn't to insult you or any of my colleagues from Republika Srpska or any of the peas in any of Bosnia and Herzegovina's ŠEFIK
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26393	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26394	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This rapture, you've allowed a debate that's really outside the box, uh, the Rules of Procedure, and I hope you won't take away my word since I'm going to speak similarly, uh, about what my predecessors were talking about. This debate showed how devastated Bosnia and Herzegovina is. We abandoned it by politicians in this country by their relationship to both the country and the people and the work that we were supposed to do in the previous four years or in the previous eight, or 15, or 20. And she was devastated by criminals, and we looked at it, or we didn't see it, or we couldn't organize a country to stop it. When the story is about the flag, here's the flag, whose law is passed by a high representative. In Republika Srpska, we have a temporary solution, which happens when I was in the National Assembly, and in the Federation we have no solution at all. So that's the real truth. And since I have traveled all over the country, I have entered many municipalities and municipalities in both Republika Srpska and the Federation, and we all swear to a secular state, but when you enter these municipalities you see that you are at least in some secular space, that it is quite different. My colleague, Beganović, has now put me in a dilemma, I had the intention to support these amendments and the additions of the law, and now I really don't know, really when you're rotating the flag then you're pummeling the state, or what it would be like to have on the flag, like some countries, some objects, animals, etc., then it would look real. I think we could have handled this with some kind of instruction, or some public cap on television, that we wouldn't get involved right now at this point, so I think we could. But I also think that in this country, if we want all the citizens in this country, in all of its space, we need to have a law or framework law on symbols and cities, and municipalities, and municipalities and everything that can't be contained, and in such a way try to create an ambience in every municipality and municipality that people who enter it, who exercise the most of their rights, feel comfortable. So I think that, here, so maybe we should make changes to the law so people don't put up a flag or something, but I think we could have settled this with some kind of public campaign. This House was supposed to have some kind of budget to get to know at least those who have an obligation to highlight the flag that it is properly highlighted. I don't think we need any kind of fight at this point, I don't understand it at all, but I know that when you touch the symbols in the Balkans, then it turns out to be a whore, a crowd, and at this point it's the least 21 we need, because I'm afraid if we continue with these fights, and even about this, we won't have anyone to point out the flags. And when it comes to borders, I don't think we should discuss it because it must not be a topic in this House either. And so I'm asking my fellow MPs, but here's what I see is that, uh, we're going to bring this atmosphere down to... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26395	Thank you. Staša Košarac, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26396	I volunteered for the discussion because I don't have another business option, and I don't want to abuse another way. I don't think there was any time for this debate. It was to be expected that when the question of symbols was opened that we would come out with a very clear and precise attitude and I think and I think that if there were some sort of possibility that we weren't going to say this, that it would be the best thing to do. It is true that the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives so specified by the 2014 amendment, but in 2014 they were present in the hall and those who were able to initiate amendments to the Law on..., so they did not. And please don't insult us further by saying that the use of our flag of Republika Srpska should be... just Rules of Procedure, please don't do this anymore, don't do it because it's not correct. There are models that will change the Rules of Procedure, and I am convinced that there will be a structure from Republika Srpska clearly defined, integrated which will insist, whatever political parties came from, that will insist on changes to the Rules of Procedure and the moans, and necessity, and obligations and political attitude to be symbols of Republika Srpska in this room because this is our fundamental constitutional right. We will not give it up, and today we announce that it will be one of our key tasks in the coming period after the October elections, convinced that the MPs coming from Republika Srpska, from Republika Srpska's electoral unit for the common level, will be unique in this, and that, regardless of what political parties, we will share the same values and go towards that path, because we have the right to do so. Could we have done this sooner? Yes, but we believe that it is high time that all political differences were respected in a political context, that respect and respect for what is legitimate and legal, what exists. And I would not talk about it as Mrs. Kapetanović said about what Republika Srpska is, I would like to remind that Republika Srpska was a negotiator in both the Washington and the Dayton Agreement, having its own representatives. Republika Srpska had its territory and everything else, its institutions, the population. These are the elements of the state and we do not have that problem to say, as we do not want to underestimate the essential interests of the then Republic, or the Federation of BiH represented by some other or today's Federation and Brcko District, etc. We don't have that need, and we'll never, ever, ever do that. When it comes to cities and municipalities, I would like to say that there has been an intensification that this has changed, and that the institutions of Republika Srpska have also acted in accordance with the relevant decisions of the respective constitutional courts. I don't think we at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina can specify the area and say what it can, what it can't, there are local assemblies that are in accordance with the Election Law, in which the representatives of all three constituent nations, representatives of all political parties are positioned in line with the election law, and I think that the decision is in accordance with both the 22 laws and the constitution, that it is the jurisdiction of local communities and local administrations. And you can't try to force again something that can't go through, that this level, the common level, imposes solutions on local levels. I think we're gonna lose time without achieving anything. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26397	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26398	I thank the chairman. counterpart Magazinović probably unwittingly opened a very interesting topic. I'm listening to today's discussions come to the conclusion that we really need a whole new flag law. We also need to do it a little differently at the entity level. Why am I saying this? I don't see why anyone in this country would have a questionable one legal feature, including entity flags. And I must say that the entity flag of Republika Srpska, for example, was introduced to the BiH presidency when Mr Ivanic came there, until then it was not there. And I don't see anyone at risk. There's a flag of Republika Srpska in our club, and I don't see it endangering anyone, and it bothers anyone. However, there are still some issues here that need to be resolved, and that is the general emphasis and flag of other states. It's sad that some people here have a problem with some features, etc., and nobody's looking back on why we don't regulate the flag of other states by legal violation. This is well done in Croatia, for example, there is a ban on highlighting the flags of other countries, so let's say it is criminally punishable. And recently, in a bar, a Srbin man put the flag on Serbia, means in his bar, and he was punished. It was done in Montenegro as well. In Serbia, it is precisely arranged that the flag of the foreign state can be highlighted, with the flag of Serbia exclusively. Here you can unpunish the flags of other countries where it comes to mind, even the ISIL flag, is not an offence. I therefore think that we should deal thoroughly with this law and pass a law that will regulate the general emphasis and characteristics of other countries in this country. I think it's a misdemeanor now, but we're not taking care of it. You know, somewhere it's embarrassing and embarrassing to see the prominent flags of both Bosnia and Herzegovina and entity. There is a man up in Romania who stabbed the flag of Republika Srpska in the barn that was torn up, torn up, is not punishable. If we had a proper legal system, the host would pay a fine because it's a humiliation of the flag. You have as many places as you want not to take care that the wind, the rain, the storm, tear up the flags, no matter which, in this country, and no one reacts and no one gets punished. So we must as an institution and as a state a little bit more take into account the respect of our characteristics in general, so I'm talking about all the features in this country, because sometimes we seem to respect someone else more than she does here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26399	Thank you. Lazar Prodanović, discussion. Isolate.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26400	Mr. Chairman. 23 The flags are important features of identity as well as coat of arms and anthem in all states. I had a chance as a young man to be fascinated by what it's like in Switzerland, which is a Švajcarci confederate with pride, so it's wearing these flags, but it has the features of cantons, cantonal flags, and on every license plate you have the mark of Switzerland and canton, so, if you're looking at it. In the United States, there is no office, no job in the House of Representatives, no senator that has no flag of the federal state to which it belongs. I wanted, therefore, just that these are important issues that are not exactly the right time to discuss pre-election activities because we differ in important things. And I wanted to take advantage of another, another, one, incorrect quote by my esteemed colleague, Pandurević. It is not true, Mr. Radmanović is in his cabinet, I know that you weren't in his cabinet perhaps, but personally, so I saw all eight years that Republika Srpska's flag was in that cabinet. Because others who do not belong, are not MPs from Republika Srpska, can confirm here at this session. .../not to be spread/... I even have to tell you because I've been in politics for a long time and Živko Radišić had a flag of Republika Srpska in his cabinet and I know that his condition was, I'm not saying... it was a long time ago in '98. year, that it is a condition for him to talk about Bosnia and Herzegovina if the debate on Bosnia and Herzegovina is in line with the BiH Constitution,... Republika Srpska entity in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26401	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Report on the work of the BiH Appeal Office for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-1258/18, of 22.05.2018. The House College has appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget as competent to consider the report. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on 30.06.2018. The Commission accepted the report with the above-mentioned conclusion from the Report. I'm opening a debate. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26403	I called in this way just to see if we had anyone from the office here first.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26404	There is.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26405	Okay, then nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26406	So, discussion, MP Predrag Kožul. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26407	Good afternoon, everyone. I answered, here in a way, on behalf of the Committee on Finance and Budget to clarify this conclusion of the Commission. In fact, when you look at what we have at the agenda, you'll see that we have a report from the Board of Appeals. The component of this Report is point 7. where two conclusions are made. As already read, the Committee accepted at its meeting the Report of the Office for the Review of Appeals but without Conclusion No. 2, to translate what the chairman read from the Report, so just after Conclusion No. 1. It is important to note that they would know very clearly what we are adopting here today, everyone here in Parliament, and to sort of explain why the Committee has ruled out conclusion number 2 which the Board of Appeal proposed in its Report. In fact, on my proposal as chairman, the Committee agreed and adopted this Report without this conclusion 2. I was personally motivated for two reasons to put that conclusion number two, uh, sort of out of adoption. To clarify who failed to finish reading this, it is proposed that Parliament, this Paraliamentary Assembly, this House, task the Council of Ministers to urgently secure additional funds from the current reserve in order to fill a certain part of the work in the Office for the Review of Appeals. It is not the request of the Office to consider complaints completely without a basis if we look at the scope of the Office's work, etc., but here are the two reasons I have motivated, under number one, because this House, this House, this Parliament has already shown some understanding, understanding of the scope of work and problems in the Office for Discussing Appeals, and it seems to me to me, on the proposal of my colleague Bojić, we have brought one amendment to the Law concerning the Office for Discussing Appeals which has already requested intervention of the current reserve within the existing budget. So we showed... so it wasn't really real that once again within this year we're going to go to the current reserve to, here, improve the material conditions of the Board of Appeal. The second reason was, you can read it from the report itself, from a few tables in the report. If you see a table showing us the size of the Office's work to discuss complaints and its branches, you will see that in the office, the Office of Appeals Office in Mostar has about as many items as these two other offices have in common, so Office in Sarajevo and Office in Banja Luka. And on the other hand you have one table that shows the number of employees, so you'll see that in Sarajevo's Board of Appeal you have 15 employees, in the Office for Discussing Appeals in Banja Luka 7 employees, and in the Office for Discussing Appeals in Mostar 8 employees. In some ways, one and the other things are determined by law, so the number of items is indeed fully defined by law, because all those items whose value is below 800,000 marks, and they come from the Federation area, go to Mostar, all those items are below 800,000 marks and come from Republika Srpska to Banja Luka, and all objects regardless of where they come from and over 800,000 marks of value go to Sarajevo. So that's really determined. The number of employees is somewhat determined by law, as defined in the law, so we have made changes, that the Office for the Review of Appeals in Sarajevo has 7 members of the Office, offices in Banja Luka and Mostar by 5 members of the office, but the number of staff employed is a question that needs to be aligned with the size of the job. So, I'll be here when I talk about the report from these two things suggest. People from the Office for the Review of Appeals suggest that they ensure as much as the law and its acts allow for one horizontal mobility of employees so that the scope of the work could be balanced, but that for the next year, when they seek additional financial resources for new employment, they clearly structure these recruitments that we know that they are going where they are going, where people fall off their feet from work so that, I say to the Council of Ministers and in the future assembly of Parliament, this request is adequately understood and accepted. Of course, in that part of it, we will also be suggesting that if the request is adequate, well-structured, within the budget, those funds that are requested this year will be put in place. And here's for these real and objective reasons within this year I think we've shown, uh, enough understanding and that's what it is. possibly and possibly. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Just enough to explain this attitude, but also some of the things in this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26408	Thank you. Discussion, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26409	Well, here, I must say, we have often mentioned the Law on Public Procurement, and especially the Office for Discussing Appeals, in many forums and in many places. It's one of the key issues, and I think a little who knows exactly what the situation is in that institution. When you put yourself in a relationship with the accepted and resolved desires, then you see that the relationship is good, that's 92%, the percentage of complaints solved, but when you look at the other things, everything else is problematic. And this is an institution that's practically left to itself. Insufficient budgets, for employees, I think, 30 people, have been hired 2.2 million marks. The second thing, therefore, is an insufficient number of employees, which is about 55% of what is predicted by the existing Regulation on site systematization. Thirdly, it's impossible to hire court workers because there's not enough financial resources. Further, inadequate business space and keeping documentation inappropriately. There is no website for the office to consider complaints. When you read it then you see that there is actually no condition normal for that office to throw out 92% of the result of the resolved complaints. Especially what falls into the eyes is the duration of the administrative dispute before the Court of BiH, which in most cases lasts for one to three years. Imagine a purchase waiting in a company for three years to see if the tender will succeed or not. What is going on and what is the obligation of the Public Procurement Agency in general has to do with the aspect of tracking things that are happening in these two public procurement institutions. What Parliament cannot be commended for, that no conclusions, Mr Kožul, have at least so far shown the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples have made almost identical decisions, but the Council of Ministers has no understanding of either the Office for the Review of Appeals, nor cares about what MPs and delegates of the Parliamentary Assembly conclude. This is a serious problem. How he will resolve it remains the next term, but that something will have to be done both at the Law and at the Office itself to consider complaints to see how to help some of these problems that are recorded to be corrected. Now here we are in front of next year's budget, and I propose to the office to consider complaints that they are well analyzed, because they haven't stated much what this should do to strengthen their efficiency yet. So, now is your chance if you fail to agree on how much this would be an optimal number of workers you should additionally receive and how much would be the budget for next year's Board of Appeal will be in trouble again, and so will all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26410	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26411	I thank the chairman. 26 It seems to me that both the legislative and executive powers underestimate the importance of this institution. It is a very important institution whose job, among other things, is to prevent the illegal withdrawal of money from the budget. Whether or not it does, I don't know, we don't know because the website doesn't work, we don't have solutions, and it's very important if there's an institution in this country whose transparency of work is important, it's this office and that for all solutions we have insight, not that we engage in speculation about how some solutions and some decisions are made and that we can all see nice and transparently. They say there's no money. I don't believe it, I'd like to know if the Council of Ministers has ever made a request for an exemption, I believe the minister would have found at least from the budget reserve, right, two, three thousand to do that platform. I believe that you would also find donors who would arrive, who work in public procurement, in tenders, etc., for small money, that's a thousand, two marks, is nothing more, and it gets a lot, it gets transparency of the work of a very, very important institution. The fact is that sometimes everything has been brought to absurdity and nonsense, because you have a statement, I know about cases, where the Office brings one solution, someone who conducts a tender procedure after that solution, realizes the contract, meanwhile someone has started a administrative dispute, but did not ask for a delay in the execution of the solution and eventually it gets a administrative dispute, and the tender already realised. So we have a situation like that. We have a huge, big problem that administrative disputes are very slow, they last from three to five, I've seen one all the way here, it seems to me, five years to run an administrative dispute. Furthermore, it is worrying that here I see in one table of judgments and decisions of the Court of Justice of BiH in 2017 more than half of them were respected in court, when it comes to the Sarajevo kancelarija which is just deciding on the biggest sums of money, Banja Luka is, for example, only 50% of the lawsuits, this is probably the third Mostar and Mostar is here somewhere at Banja Luka level. I have to tell you that these days, I've also been in the last session talking about this, a great deal of public attention has attracted a slow and you're coming up with an absurd situation, what's going on, and this is about the need to make a quality law on public procurement. I'm not going to say there's a problem here in the office, but the problem with the Public Procurement Act and the Office has so far had to initiate amendments to the law. What happened, we had a two-year-old road maintenance tender in District 1 Banja Luka, director of Puteva, assigned a job to a company that was 12 million more expensive than the other, doesn't mean a million, two, and since the site of CAPITAL.ba published this which was cheaper and whose offer was 14 million, the man says I make 4 million here. The tender commission cancels, the director reopens the tender and gives the 12 million more expensive again. The office cancels again. Third time director in the meantime... that same firm illegally maintains roads, two years, it charges fat, then the director gives them the job again for the third time. The appeal office for the third time doesn't respect the lawsuits, because they say someone there, the one who's 12 million cheaper didn't verify anything in the municipality with a quarter but a round seal, among other things. The court, a man sues, initiates an administrative dispute, the Court makes a decision and orders the execution of a resolution by the Office for Appeal to be suspended. Director Puteva, here are the photos that Žurnal published two days ago about this, continuing to work most normally. And no one in this country is responding because it's a criminal offense, you're realising a contract that the Court forbade you to implement, and as I see it, so I refer to the text "The Žurnal“, "The Žurnal“ has also announced that this solution has been annulled and brought to the Office of Appeals. And you know why he's pulling out that $12 million, that's what I was saying. Here I am finishing up, in the last session, you know where, there they are in East Sarajevo in private courtyards, that company came to East Sarajevo and the director of Puteva paved for the pre-election campaign private courtyards, two villages paved his way. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26412	Thank you. 27 Discussion, Salko Sakolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26413	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, here, I'll do quite a bit, because that part that I wanted to talk about, which is an analysis of the problem... mostly said by Mrs. Majkić, and pointed out the basic problems, although I'm going to point out one more time that in some way I would give the weight to the problem that the Office is currently having or the Office is considering complaints in BiH, given their, uh, let's say, some strong engagement is to solve the complaints that they have, so here they used, as far as I can see, through the report and extended working hours to get there in some way, those scheduled deadlines. And that's good. For this reason, I think that we should take them seriously and what is possible for the Parliamentary Assembly, which is to adopt certain conclusions and guide them to the Council of Ministers and ask for realisation, let us do here today and again and for this reason, although it is justified that what Mr Kožul spoke of as the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, chairing. Uh, I voted again for the conclusions that we still have to restart this initiative that we had before, not only us as the Finance and Budget Committee of the House of Representatives but it has done the same on several occasions, and the Commission for Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples, adopted conclusions and sent it to the Council of Ministers, i.e. to the relevant ministries. Not by analysing the insufficient budget framework in terms of the number of employees, because here we see that some of the efforts of people are able to arrive, to carry out certain obligations, uh, but by thinking about these means in a way that because of the lack of time, there are no judicial witches, that there is no website, that we do not have adequate space to install archives. I think it should be alarming because all of this together does now in the decision-making analysis a very important factor whether, on positive legal grounds, the Agency has completed a certain case because it may not have been able to engage a court expert, and then extended the period of solving certain problems. I'm not saying that and that number of employees in any case gives a solved problem, uh, one quality because, more employees will devote more time to solving a particular problem, enter into the scale of the problem. And in my opinion, a larger number of employees with assistance from those, and here we are talking about a court expert, will ultimately produce a result that may not go to the Court of BiH, will not be a dispute, etc. For this reason, I would like to remind us here, for those who have forgotten, that we here at the House of Representatives adopted conclusions on 19 July 2016 where we asked the Council of Ministers to provide these additional financial resources, to create a new systematization or to analyse the existing and thus provide adequate conditions for the work of the Office or Office of Appeals, but that did not happen. The same thing she did, I say, did to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, and it doesn't all say about us here, uh, so what we did was we ended up, it's saying something bad about the work of the Council of Ministers, because it didn't finish, it did its job simply, it ignored the position of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. And that is what is not good and what has been devoured through the four years of functioning of this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Council of Ministers in its work. So we weren't either the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples weren't any authority for the Council of Ministers. The authorities were, and I repeat that again, and I have been saying that so far, political parties and political leaders who impose solutions, direct the work of the Council of Ministers, and the legislative bodies that are essentially needed through, because this is parliamentary democracy, define processes, set the way and order the executive authority to realise. [[the speaker is warned on time]] She's doing it. Worked. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Here I apologize to the chairman, I hope that the future Parliament and the future Council of Ministers will think differently, but I invite us here colleagues and fellow Members, to re-adopt this conclusion, so that it remains a permanent obligation for all those who later come to these benches and to the benches of executive power. 28 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26414	Thank you. Discussion, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26415	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't want to cut into this report, I'd like to try ducking and try to focus a little bit on what's called using public funds and using the funds this country carries on its back, or credit means through a public procurement system. Because these are segments that are very important when it comes to informing citizens how their resources go and how the resources that they are burdened with in the future, or the burdened generations that are coming are something that we don't have here at all. You have only one thing that I would immediately reject this Report – how many sums are in the real dispute in complaints, has anyone stated, did you find it in the Report? How much in the process of appeal is the funds targeted from credit lines, how much from the budget? It's very important. Why does it matter? I'm going to give a few obvious examples, so they don't say I'm touching the ethnic-national, entity-based, I'm going to mix it up a little bit. Do the Tuzlac know they're paying for the Tuzla water supply credit? How is he assigned to the company that did this to them? These are credit funds, a water supply system has been built and do you know where that system is controlled, if every month, of course, the money doesn't go where it's supposed to go, from Budapest. So the Tuzlas can't control it, it's Zen's system. The Bosnian-Herzegovina companies are explicits rejected in form – these are the funds we received from foreigners. When you address those countries that gave these loans, it says – we have nothing to do with it, we have nothing to do with it, it says, yours assigns. The Brcko District example, an identical system, and today they don't have it finished, because the company that originally got a job from Austria after a 5 million-dollar advance went bankrupt in Austria. Watch out, a week after the advance payment, very interesting. You have a third case, it's a water purifier bridge, credit funds, take a complete procedure to assign that job. In Sarajevo, it was finished long ago, the job started a year and a half before Sarajevo, it's less four times than in Sarajevo, and it won't be finished until Bog knows when. You have the water supply of Banja Luka, I will be asked by many from where I know it, so I know an engineer and I do these jobs, I know it well, water supplying Banja Luka and Prijedor, credit funds are neither from the budget nor from, but credit. The justification, the domestic companies eventually gave up, was because they were impossible with horned bosts, whether they were foreign funds and that foreigners dictate to whom the job had to be given. Don't lie down, those companies that got these jobs, when the tenders are being reviewed, or they're taking part in the evaluation of the World Bank tender, no job has been given to those companies that I've got, or when the evaluation is being carried out in Brussels. But when the evaluation takes place in offices in Mostar, Banja Luka, Sarajevo, Tuzla, Bijeljina, these companies are getting and the explicits are refusing to apply, here's Nikola Špirić is here I think he'll know best what I'm going to say now, refuse to evaluate offers by FIDIK Niko of the ones I'm talking about right now in those offices have any idea or ever met with, that kind of evaluation, that offer, or those in this Board of Appeal. [[the speaker is warned on time]] That's what's saddest, that's what millions of citizens' funds spill away from somewhere. And we're actually magicians, says gone, where we don't know, evaporated. Blessed is a country where citizens' resources evaporate instead of being used for a better life for citizens. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And I'll be against it, because we're getting information on how much money it is, how much money it is, etc. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26416	Mr. Backović's past, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26417	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26418	Thank you. Nikola Špirić, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26419	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, it seems it's our own fault that to this extent we have offended this House of Representatives. There are important things being said about none of the ministers from the Council of Ministers, so on behalf of the Club, I'm asking for half an hour to secure your presence, otherwise this loses its meaning. We're talking to ourselves, we've read this and we know it. To whom does the representatives of this House actually address? So I'm asking for half an hour's break to ensure presence otherwise this is really insulting each and every one of us individually, including you in the College. I'm looking for a half-hour break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26420	Let me tell you, you're gonna get a good break, that the Proposer is not the Council of Ministers on this point..
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26421	It doesn't matter. Mladen
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26422	So...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26423	But, no, today's Parliament session...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26424	Half an hour's break. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats. Chief Jeffers... six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18. 18, we're gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26428	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Of course, I welcome you and everyone present in the O.R. About this report, of course, here are the predecessors who said a lot of things, and I would except for what the report is like it is, and which doesn't give us certain information primarily related to heights or amounts for which they are sued and there are judicial proceedings relating to public procurement, which is missing from this report, I would like to make a few turns as someone who in his business has co-operation first and with the Office for Consideration of Appeals, and also with the Public Procurement Agency, since here is the company or company from which I come is obliged to conduct all public procurement under the Public Procurement Act, so we're not released as some other companies. The report shows this, and what I would like to potential, and what we feel as users of these services, is that every year, year by year, we actually have more and more complaints or some procedural things about public procurement and more and more and more people are justified and much more unjustly complaining about the public procurement process itself, which ultimately leads to their significant slowdown. And it's no secret at all, I think it's written in the media about having a couple, and we know from our experience, that we have a few companies that specialize in, as I would say, obstruction of public procurement. One of them is the company from Bijeljina, which is written a lot, where people just apply for public procurement, so what they do, they sew through these kind of gaps that exist in the public procurement procedure itself. What I'd like and want, here and what I don't know, uh, and I don't know how it's reflected, we're in debt, or companies that are, under public procurement, other than the supply of goods and services, so they're obliged to increase from year to year and to conduct public procurements so-called. The E-office, where the Agency for Public Procurement is directly, means, is in charge of their implementation. And what I know, again from experience, is that we who use these services are very satisfied, so, with this kind of public procurement, not the classic one. And the question, here, I'm just afraid that this system isn't in any way vulnerable, so it causes us to get stuck and stuff like this. The next thing I'd like to potential, and the thing about it is, directly for the Board of Appeals, it's very often that we don't get an answer from the Board of Appeal within the scheduled time period. So, that answer is prolonged or late a few months, and what your colleagues have said about it, when you take on a court epilogue, it's very difficult to run a company and work at a firm where you have a supply that means you or slows down the process of production you have to wait six months or even sometimes more than a year. So this is a completely one, one area that, as I would say, is vulnerable where we have different approaches and different interests through public procurement and where we should do a little more, here, as through these proposals maybe even humanely strengthen, given the Law on Public Procurement, we seem to have tried to make changes to that Law two years ago. One of my experiences is that under the current Public Procurement Act, we can in no way buy quality. So you're always looking at the price, 31, and what's cheapest is the least expensive, and then we're very, very, very, very limited. And, therefore, from the Public Procurement Act to human resources and to the Agency of Public Procurement and the Office of Desire should carry out a certain fill-in, especially with people who understand certain things. Because it's very difficult, we often require some clarifications, so we write some special and special parts that don't everyone produce, we have to get them, then we offer someone, some substitutes that can't even be heads, crash public procurement, we can't find a solution. If we had people who understand these things, I believe it would be much easier. So, this system is currently very burdensome to the businessmen, especially, I say, who are obliged to carry out its public procurement procedures through the Public Procurement Act, and we should go in step with time, we should also make certain amendments and the Law, and ultimately, and staff may fill in and strengthen both the Agency and the Board of Appeals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26429	Thank you. So we've exhausted the discussion on the fifth point. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on the before the article of MP Senad Šepić to include a new item in the agenda of the 62nd meeting of the BiH Parliamentary House, which reads: Information from the Council of Ministers on concrete activities related to the protection of BiH's property in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and in the process of adopting the Law on State Property Management in the Republic of Croatia, issue: 01-50-1114/18, since 31.05.2018. The House College as a commission failed to reach agreement on a proposal by MEP Senad Šepić to supplement the 62nd session's agenda. You got the report, there's no debate here, we'll come forward later in the second round of voting. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions Commission, materials of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, issue: 01,02-34-1415/18, since 11/06/2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26433	I didn't know how to get back to you. I don't have any... Since the promoter is not here, and he is currently with the mayors of the municipalities that are burdened by a refugee wave, and he is one of those who is from that space, and it will only take a short while, on behalf of the Club, I am looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26434	Can we keep working, and then we'll get back to this?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26435	As far as I'm concerned, we can, but let's get back to this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26436	I think everyone, is there anyone against this proposal to keep working? _________(?) There isn't. If not, we'll return this point to... SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26438	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26439	Point nine, Ad. Nine. Information on the reasons for not implementing the initiative to determine the maximum amount of the margin of the distribution of oil and petroleum products – Proposer: MEP Senad Šepić, issue: 01-50-1-15-63/18, since 05.07.2018. We put this item on the first part of the session. I'm opening a debate. Discussion, Senad Šepić. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26441	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So this is a famous topic, and we've talked a lot about this, and when this story was about the adoption of the Excise Enlargement Act and then some kind of, I'd say, responsible relationship and responsible approach, an attempt to kind of rip out what's to rip out. We, as you know, the House of Representatives, here, adopted this initiative on 20 February and obliged the Council of Ministers and called on the entity governments to respond in this sense and respond to one such approach. There has never been a concrete answer from institutions, and what I would say is a key grudge and what is a key problem in this country, you can have geniuses sitting here, I can suggest whatever they want, you have the capacity, the Council of Ministers, the chairman, the main leaders in this country completely without ideas, completely without any creativity, without any, I would say, without any kind of responsibility and understanding of the situation and the situation in which we all as a society and as a state. I've written four open letters, you know how many times I've discussed this here in the Parliamentary Assembly. Whenever this is tried responsibly, it always comes back in some way that it's some kind of, as I would say, attempt to politicize a question, that it's for these or those reasons or intentions, and it's actually only one complete, as I would say, non-discovery, inability, irresponsibleness of the people who run the country. So, the Council of Ministers has had an obligation to give us an answer in this regard, to come before us and to say what it has done in this regard when it comes to the obligation imposed by this Parliament. We've never received a single sentence specific to this action before. You know, there have been some reactions through the media that have been saying that we live in a country that has a free market, that it's free to form prices, which is complete, as I would say, total manipulation and total deception, so, because the moment when the citizens, when the people, when the drivers stopped on the street at five o'clock and made that kind of pressure, then they solved the problem at least temporarily, apparently, from five to ten fenings, they reduced the price of fuel. So, my intensity is to create in this sense this kind of debate in which responsible people will be held, and people who rule the country are responsible, those who have executive authority, because when this Parliament proposes something, adopts and assigns institutions, then institutions should either do it or need to inform us why they did not do it. If they have some kind of problem, blockages, and if someone's holding them back, if someone doesn't give them what's good for the people in this country, they need to inform us in that sense about it. So this agenda point is exactly that way. Here, I see that the finance minister has come to us, if he, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, or someone, can give us that kind of information, can tell us what these next steps are in this sense to react, what it is obligation of the institutions and the state to do, so it would be, would be, would be, would be, would be some, would be some positive answer on that side. So this issue is too important in general in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm not going to go any further into how much what was the promises of the people who advocated, convincing us here that it's too important for the state, to get an increase in excise duties, how we get roads, how we get some new employment, we get someone, what's called, well-being. It's obvious that it was done, that my colleague Salko just spoke on another agenda point, it was done obviously with the intention of getting more funds into the budgets, to get through VAT funds that would eventually be spent more on these, as I would say, pre-election political stories. Today you have people who have no shame at all, first they deceived us when it came to the adoption of the Excise Act, today they're walking around Bosnia and Herzegovina and they're trying to convince us that what they were doing was in the interest of those people they've collected life, they've collected fuel, the general standard of life is collected, there's not a single metre, as it's called, the road. Now they're again responsible for some others who point to theirs, as I would say, 34 completely, completely, I won't say imbecileal, but those statements and those moves that they've done that ultimately have no fundamental result for the people of this country. So I would ask and ask the Council of Ministers specifically for information, action. Let us be told why we do not actually have concrete actions by the government, or the Council of Ministers of BiH, from February to this day, despite all these demands we have had so far in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26442	Thank you. So, Minister, the minister doesn't answer for a word. We don't have any more charges to argue with. I'm finishing point nine. We are going back to the eighth point because Proposer jasmin Emrić has arrived. Ad. 8. Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the reasons for the non-execution of the conclusion adopted at the 59th session of the House of Representatives of the Parlame of the Croatian National Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MEP Jas min Emrić, issue: 01-50-1-15-59/18, since 21.03.2018; The item is listed on the agenda in the first part of the session. I'm opening a debate. He answered the discussion, jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26444	I thank the esteemed chairman and all of you colleagues and colleagues for understanding that we delayed the interim debate and allowed me to explain very briefly the reasons why I proposed this item of the agenda. In some ways, we are familiar with these reasons for the BiH Council of Ministers' failure to conclude the BiH House of Representatives which requested information from the Council of Ministers from a joint session held on 7 July last year. The topic of this joint session of the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia should also be the intention of the Republic of Croatia to build a landfill of radioactive and nuclear waste at the location of Trgovina Gora. As a House of Representatives, we should have been informed of what was discussed at this joint session of the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the subject, which were the conclusions and what were the views of the Republic of Croatia regarding our opposition to establishing a centre for the disposal of radioactive waste, used sources and spent nuclear fuel near the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I do not see the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and I do not know whether the chairman of the Council of Ministers has authorised someone to state on behalf of the Council of Ministers the reasons for not having reached a conclusion, first of all, of the House of Representatives, and I, as an MP, am very interested in hearing the reasons why I am not being answered to the previously asked questions. A joint session was held a year ago, more precisely 384 days ago, and we, as a House, should have been introduced by the Council of Ministers on this very important subject, i.e. what is being guided in the sense that it is not allowed to establish a centre for the disposal of radioactive waste, used sources and spent nuclear fuel in the location of Trgovina gora near the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, in short, I will say that I am 35 executing the conclusion of a task force appointed by the Council of Ministers for the purpose of monitoring the situation and activities related to the possible construction of a disposal of radioactive waste at the location of Trgovska Gora, this conclusion has been made by our members of the working group who are in the House of Representatives and in the House of Peoples and committed to delivering a working group of information from a joint meeting. We adopted this conclusion on 30 June 2017, so we will be informed immediately before holding a joint session of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Vlada of the Repub of Croatia, with the intention that we will be informed in the shortest time period of time about what is the position and what talks are being held. Given that there was no concrete information in the media that something was discussed on the topic at the joint session a year ago, I asked the first parliamentary question in written form 21/09/2017 and asked the Council of Ministers the question. I was expecting an answer, I had patience, but I did not get an answer in writing, and in 31.01.2018, I decided to ask an oral parliamentary question from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. When I asked that question, the chairman of the Council of Ministers replied that he did not know about my issue in writing, and that he did not know why he did not answer, but that in the shortest time period he would deliver the question in writing. Again, my patience and expectation of this written response followed. I didn't get the same one, so I decided to propose to this distinguished House to adopt a conclusion that would be entrusted to the Council of Ministers to deliver information on the subject at the first next meeting of the House of Representatives. However, the House of Representatives (?), as you know, has not reached the conclusion of this distinguished House, so we have not received the information in question, and I am interested in what is the reason why we as MPs, MPs, in the House of Representatives cannot get the information they spoke about a year ago. This doesn't make any sense anymore. This is my insistence. It seems to me that she's so passively experiencing it as if it's demeaning me, and I'm being represented. [[the speaker is warned on time]] But I don't care, I don't care what kind of relationship the Council of Ministers has with us, the MPs, I'm more concerned about what the Council of Ministers has to do with I'm also worried about what the Council of Ministers has to do with this matter. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Gentlemen, in the Council of Ministers, with your unhappiness, your passivity. you... perspective of living in the part, in the north-west part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Do we care about waiting for some new activities in the Republic of Croatia...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26445	Mr. Emrić, time's up. jasmin
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26446	and be constantly under threat and pressure that what is really going to happen is what is the most serious intention, which is building a centre for the storage of radioactive and nuclear waste in our backyards. It's not far from here but in my backyard gentlemen at the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26447	A minute and a half, maybe... jasmin
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26448	And I'm asking for you to be the one to finally share, to provide us with information. If you haven't talked about anything, write – we haven't talked about it, we don't care about it, do what you know, and then we will continue to comply with our business and all other activities to run activities. Thank you very much. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26449	Mr. Emrić, we've really gone too far with time. Thank you. Discussion, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26450	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. This topic has been discussed several times in this House. We are obviously neglecting the consequences of a negligent relationship with storage and the preservation of something called radioactive waste. From what we consider the most banignant, it is medically radioactive waste, to what will happen near our border with the Republic of Croatia. Along Bosnia and Herzegovina, I've listed them here, and I've never received a single statement of any response or anything with warehouses exhausted by ionising fire alarms which, among other things, we sit, we have above our heads, count them, which have a duration and which must be replaced and then stored somewhere because it's radioactive sources. Such a reckless relationship can have inconceivable consequences. What my colleague was talking about, I tried to explore, and then I found that through..., i.e. the plum, tomorrow that water will pass through Banja Luka, must, that what is in Kaknju will pass through Bosnia, through Doboj, well, and who knows who consumes everything and baths in that water, we forget it. A warehouse near Mostar, now that I've explored, is completely forgotten, and it's on its way to Vrgorec. _________(?) ZAIM [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26451	ZAIM [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26452	Yes, it is, my, I see you're confirming me, and no one has any idea what's wrong with the mass of these ionizing transmitters and medical radioactive waste. It seems that we in this country are just ready to politicize, ready to be ethnically determined, but that's why we are very ready for these things that mean life, to forget and to question the health of citizens. None of those who do, and people who are in medicine sitting here, have said at any time why there has been a sudden increase in malignancies. And now that it's taken... NERMINA 37 is, yes, a small town, compared to the '90s. Year 2016 eight times bigger. Where that came from, and there was one of the largest warehouses of those ionizing after the phase, they say, exploitation or semi-degradation, stored elements that have a radioactive fact. I will fully support my colleague Emrić, and someone will have to answer what is happening to us on this subject to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26454	Thank you. The discussion of Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26455	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, you see, and this item of the agenda is almost identical, I would say, I would like to say, in my intention, the identical interest of fellow Emrić, in what I was just saying about unrealising what we here adopt in Parliament by the government, by the executive authority. Now we can go back, so we can talk about how additionally problematic this issue is, because it concerns people's real health and life, but that kind of, as I would say, relationships, even, in this matter, what counterpart Zaim Backović said there is no, no ethnic, inter alia, pretentious non-cooperation, here are all municipalities and UN-San canton and municipalities in the space of Republika Srpska's entity, all of them are united from that above in terms of asking the state and state institutions to do their part of the job and to protect them. You have no answer, so you can talk here, you can make any decisions, conclusions, you can have cries of whatever you want, you have just one group of people who doesn't have the capacity and there's no, as I would say, there's no understanding where we are as a state and as a society, and that's why we're, here's the situation where we are. In addition to this question, it was identical to the question of those border crossings up at the UN-San canton, remember we've been talking about it for years. Here, and three years after those first initiatives, that question still hasn't been solved. You know how, like, today the Krajišnik solves it? By the highest number now, when they go away, they return less and come home to their homes. Since 2017 for the New Year compared to 2016 for the New Year is almost 40% less crossing over the crossing of home. So people say -- we don't even have to come home for New Year's Eve to our family, parents, we can't look at that kind of problem and horror anymore at those border crossings. You have initiative here, you have ideas here, you have solutions here, solutions offered that, let's say, people in Parliament offer, let's agree, this Parliament adopts it. You have the full, I'd say, impotentity of the people who run the executive power, so the Council of Ministers, the government, who don't know, naked, so prepared naked, after that they don't know how to give it. There are interstate relations, there are directives, there are international documents, it's all on our side, just someone who has this kind of mandate, so the minister, it can't do it individually, go up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or talk to the European Commission, etc., so it can stand these initiatives like we do, but it's an educational role to protect the interests of people in this country, so the government has to work, it has to do the BiH Presidency, it's their job. So, that kind of, I would say, changes, pro-actively g of this relationship, one more responsible approach, so here, even though this is, as I would say, the end of this mandate of this government, but we all have to figure it out, we all have to understand that without one, as I would say, responsible, capable people, who in the governments are going to bring out what we're discussing here in the Parament, and the next term is going to be like this, you know. So, so I fully understand, I support what my fellow predecessors have been saying, but don't just let it stay that we told ourselves today, here, as I was just talking about those excises, there's no answer, there's no feedback. Sometimes you ask yourself if it makes any more sense, I mean, drown your tongue, and you don't have some, so, as if simply on the other hand there are some nettles in your eyes, people don't want to listen to you, they don't want to see you, they don't want to feel that kind of problem that you as a representative of people and a representative of the people here in Parliament are trying to bring out. So, I would ask that there be some kind of, if there is no oral reaction today, there must be at least written information the next day, in the next period that we will all get when it comes to this action, that is, the unrealisation of what the Parlment of BiH adopts and asks the executive authority to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26456	Thank you. Discussion, Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go. SEMSUDIN
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26457	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests. Namely, this issue is too important to address the regional issue, to address the issue of position or opposition, to address the issue at the very least only of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because this is a matter of health for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the issues of the future of our children in these areas, and I think that this Parliament may not be the first instance, the institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina that should deal with this issue too well. According to constitutional powers, this issue should deal with our Presidency and several Council of Ministers in operational terms, because this is a matter of relations between the two countries, this is a matter of relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission, or the European Union, and this is a question of all issues, because it is obvious that our neighbours, neighbouring countries, are doing what they want not to ask Bosnia and Herzegovina. They are working near the border, affecting our health, affecting the future of this country, and I think that the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina finally needs to do the job it has, a constitution defined. I therefore congratulate my colleague Emrić on the tenacity and insistence that this issue is actually resolved because we are all quite busy with the pre-election campaign now and it is not good, it is not good timing when this issue is being considered, but it should be insisted that the Council of Ministers finally tell the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina what it has done in this matter as well as, here, the migrant crisis. The BiH presidency is competent because it is an external policy, as is the case with the construction of the Peljega Bridge, the Kinez should start this business, our Presidency is silent, etc. Therefore, there are many burning and large questions for which, behold, the Presidency with silence, not to say approve of further activities. So I say congratulations to my colleague Emrić on the endurance of this issue, and I certainly support this conclusion and this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26458	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the argument by item eight. Point nine, we've already concluded. 39 Before we move to item 10, we suggest that we vote on the unification of the debate on points 10 to 27, with a view to giving consent to the ratification of the agreement. Prepare to vote. For 30, v. 1, abstention 2. There's a general and entity majority. I'm uniting the debate by points 10 to 27. Ad. Ten. - Ad. 27. Giving consent to ratification of the agreement Are there any reports of discussion? Nikola Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26460	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, no matter what the debate is, I'd like two agreements to comment on, put out some thought. So I understand what the procedure is about international agreements and how it's actually happening, but I also know that rarely when I go into the lab or, let me say, a more serious debate about these agreements, than we count that when certain filters have passed, it's all right and it's in the interest of both Bosnia and Herzegovina and, let me say, all of us together. However, I have objections to two agreements, and on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, both were kind of initialled by Mr Adil Osmanović. One is, therefore, the Agreement on Education, Higher Education and Scientific Research between the Council of Ministers and the Government of the State of Qatar, and that, for example, in Article 2 of that Agreement. It is said that the parties in the framework of common interest to develop the effectiveness of the general education system in both countries will give priority to cooperation on topics in the following areas – school administration and management, under the 3rd standards of curricula and programmes, and under the 8th evaluation in education. I'm not sure if this can be done in this way and I don't know what the interest is that with, if you want, the physically remote state of Qatar, therefore, we have this kind of contractual obligation, therefore, to talk about school administrations and management, I don't know what you're thinking. First of all, it's a very distraught topic in us, and you know that there are intelligence in counties and entities. And then the standard curricula and the programmes, which are common touch points, so that in this kind of collaboration with the esteemed state we can co-operate, and then the evaluation in education, I guess it relates to progress or I don't know what else. The second agreement that talks about young people, also with the same state in Article 3 of that Treaty, is said to be about young people, meaning, cooperation in the field of exchange, as precisely as it is called, therefore, in the fields of youth between, exchange and cooperation in the field of youth, so the first point says, by coordinating attitudes at international conferences and forums. So, some of our youth associations, I don't know now who's going to explain it to us at all, should have an association similar to or the same young Katara have common views at international conferences and forums. Which, when, what, then, does this mean, what are common views, in which areas, what kind of cooperation are these? So, I don't understand this and because of these misunderstandings, if there's no one to explain it, I'm asking in the vote to vote separately on at least these two agreements, because I have no intention of doing this in a way that, as far as I'm concerned, support these agreements. So, in the vote, I have now, here, accepted the debate, but in the vote, I ask that these two agreements be voted separately. 40 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26461	You said 14, dot 14, and which is it? Nikola Lovrinović [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26463	Just to remind my colleague Lovrinović, we here, are asked to give consent to ratification, and this requires the BiH Presidency. The BiH presidency unanimously, with the votes of all three members, adopted an act requiring us to agree on ratification, so that I am now vaguely aware that there is a conflict here within certain parties or simply a waste of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26464	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26465	Well, here, colleague Arnaut said one introduction to what I wanted to say, but I must note that my colleague Lovrinović has this kind of a selective performance when it comes to contracts, especially when it comes to closing contracts with Muslim countries. So, take it, you'll see that that's how it is, don't get into that kind of thinking phase in this House, then we won't adopt any contracts. Here you go, check yourself out, take the contracts that you've had an objection to, why you've had an objection, and you'll come to that conclusion yourself. I wish in this country education was as high as in Qatar, go see how many American universities there are, how people are educated, etc., etc. Don't, I think it's gone too far, anyway consult with your president before you step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26466	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26467	Thank you, then, to both colleagues. I could say that then you stand for something special for Muslim countries, as well as for me, so I can say that you specifically advocate cooperation with Muslim countries, if you're going to turn a saw like that. But it's not, I told Mr Ahmetović that this country is far away from us physically and I don't know which, therefore, are what kind of cooperation they are, I've asked someone to give an answer. To have fellow Osmanović come or... 41 Mr. Minister also said, what is the type of co-operation with the country of Qatar in the school administration and management, which is a form of co-operation in the standards of curricula and programmes with Katar. We have neighbouring countries, maybe Germany, Austria, here we don't have to talk about what you're targeting, lobbying, but so far closer to everything, so we don't have that kind of cooperation, I haven't seen that or the evaluation and education. So, here I am looking for clarification, and there is no one to give, or cooperation is to young people and taking common positions at international conferences, so I would like to know at least one of that attitude together that we can have or two or three, or to explain to me what it really means. And every time my colleague Arnaut warns me about this and every time and you also warn me, so, that's... and I said it and I know it, so I guess here I'm giving consent, I don't know what's going on in front of us if we don't raise our hand for it. So that's my position regardless of what you said, and it's not my first time being told by a colleague Ahmetović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26468	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26469	Well, I have to say, you know, there's a lot here, as I'd say, of some prejudice when it comes to the education system. It is well known in these countries whose education systems and principles dominate. These are the most qualitative educational Western systems that play a dominant role in the establishment, organisation and implementation of this educational system. But I still allow my colleague Lovrinović to be concerned and that is his legitimate and legal right, but I want to say one thing, none of this international agreement derivates the Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the level of state, entity, or canton in particular. If someone comes to one, some details of the co-operation that canton is responsible, then the laws of cantonal that regulate the education system will have to be respected. None, no possibility of imposing anything on the canton or here's an entity or at the end of the state that doesn't want it, or any educational segment in that country is possible. Therefore, I see no reason for fear, but yet, here's the thing, the fear expressed by Mr. Lovrinović, my colleague Lovrinović, is the same legitimate and justifiable and I have nothing against it. And if he's unhappy with it, let him vote against it and please, it's nice, but no room for such things here. He wouldn't want to put me in the wrong context, because it's someone like that, under quotes, or whatever, without quotes, a Muslim country. Only I know these education systems, it's a thing that I'm sovereignly aware of and so I don't need anyone to explain it to me and... the thing is like I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26470	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26471	I understand the full concern of my colleague Lovrinović, but I would ask when entering this kind that if you see nothing, you see the structure of students, say, in Qatar. So where did 4,000 Australians come from, where did they come from at school? How come New Zealand students, how come 42 American students? This isn't about, this is about something completely different, and that's why, in accordance with what the Presidency certainly searched very well, I would ask that this kind of discussion that has a connotation towards something that's wrong, let's not forget that the diploma was acquired in Qatar, and we already have them here, done throughout the world, but not only in Qatar, in the whole world, valid, ours are not. And if we're going to go to something called progress, especially in education, especially, we need to understand that our prejudices make us have what we have today. These prejudices lead to our own ignorance that we are ready to eliminate something that can have very positive effects. And that sentence they said a long time ago; I am not afraid of work; I fear the ignorance of those who work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26472	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26473	I have said that there are therefore records from the session and you can have insight into them, what you have said and what agreements you have disputed, find for two terms in this House as long as I was or one and a half, whether I am on that matrix where you say anything in this House. But I'm afraid the prejudices you have, that it's too late to fix it, or maybe it's just impossible. So I think, don't, don't bring us into the matrix to bring all the agreements, everything, this country has agreements with all the countries, and it should have agreements with all the countries, and with Austria, and Germany, and everything that isn't this, this shouldn't be a closed country. Even though you were once educated when it was that Russian system, on that matrix, so you can't move further away from what Staljin or possibly his heirs don't think. So that's it, that's incurable. So, here, so I won't go any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26474	Thank you. Mr. Backović, you've already had a debate, so I can't give you a word another time. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26475	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26476	No, no, before that, you had a discussion, according to the Service records, you had a debate, and then you blamed the allegations, so now the debate again. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26477	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26478	You think it wasn't like that? I'm asking the Service to verify the accuracy of the claim that this is the first debate. Here we go. We'll check it out. No problem. Mr. Backović, after checking, what's the name of that system, after checking you really have the right to debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26479	Thank you. It's very strange this system of ours, it turns out I've had three discussions. - Oh, my God. - Oh,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26480	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26481	Here it is already started, Mr. Backović's debate has already begun.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26482	I'll be here...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26483	Come on, but you're not registered, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26484	... since the Foreign Affairs Commission has done three other agreements this morning, to check the possibility that these three emergency session agreements should be organised in five minutes and we can end up there, because it can be very easy for the next session not to be held, because it is already falling at the time of the campaign,...a great chance of not being held. The damage would be, three agreements, one of which is exclusively important for the Federation, it is drinking water, the other concerns Republika Srpska and not only the Republika Srpska but is related to the bridge in Croatia and the third is related to Elektroprivreda. So, I think it would be a sin to leave it waiting for the next term, and these are donor... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26486	Well, it's a college thing, so we discussed it this morning, first it's not the next session at the time of the election campaign. That the election campaign starts on October 7th because the 7th vote...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26487	It's a long shot...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26488	44 so, uh, it doesn't belong in, and let me tell you nowhere does it say that it can't even be at the time of the election campaign. And we didn't accept, there was no agreement on the College of All three members to do as you suggest, and that's why it's not scheduled. Mr. Backović, come in. Discussion, Mr. Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26489	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be very brief here, why I voted against being discussed in a package of these consents, for the simple reason we've mixed both pears and apples. From what is financial to what is aid, to the third that the agreements on scientific, cultural, technical, such and such co-operation, and we should now in this discussion add discussions on all kinds of sweet..., bitter vegetables and so on, which is impossible. And I don't think it's correct of you in college, which you squeeze into one point what can't be discussed together. Here's like this agreement with Katar, and the second is credit, the third is the agreement with the Czech Republic, the fourth is non-refundable funds for the Nevessins, it's fifth, it's completely different topics. Why are you doing this to us? We are preparing for Parliament's sessions and I should be talking about all the topics in five minutes, that's impossible. The way you do this makes the citizens not to be informed what this is all about and it's not fair. At least now I have to talk about this credit debt and about the Czech Republic, which has no touch point and I should put it all in one discussion. How is that possible? The way you guys manage to pull this through is a maestro, and I congratulate you, so now we can't say anything anymore. And I, not because I disagree, but because I don't agree with the method that I can say about every point I think, against the whole package, because I didn't say anything, I'm going to vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26490	Okay, thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26491	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, colleagues Ahmetović and my colleague Backović, I thank them for trying to explain and clarify the provisions of this Agreement, however, failed. So, I, I'm sorry that my colleague Ahmetović had the impression of my matrix, and so he could see that if he thought of someone as Staljin, that I had my own, my own head. Mr Backović, I do not need to know what is in Qatar and what is the education there, who is studying, what is studying, and I did not ask you for an explanation, with all due respect, from fellow Ahmetović, but from the minister, therefore, who led this procedure to explain to me what it means with the State of Qatar or with any state that we have, we are giving priority on topics in the following areas such as administration and management in educational institutions. What does that have to do with anything at all, so to be in this agreement, I've been waiting for it from him, not who studies them, how many graduates, maybe I know, maybe I don't know, maybe it's not even important for this story in, but how we have that kind of desire, cooperation when it comes to administrations and school leadership. He says school administrations and leadership. What does that even mean? You didn't explain it to me. You tried to explain something else. So, I thank you, but that's not what I was looking for. 45 The second thing, in the second agreement, which you haven’t even touched, when it comes to young people, I asked how will coordination of positions in international conferences and forums agree between our youth, which coffees, what are common views with any state, not with Katar? He came here before me this Agreement and I commented on him. I asked for an explanation, no explanation, I ask that this be voted separately, I have my own opinion on this, and I don't think that this, so I wasn't talking about the whole agreement, I was just talking about some parts of these agreements. What doesn't, what someone in the procedure has accepted, asked, saw that it's good, I'm not getting into it, this is my attitude, this has come here, this is what we're talking about here, the point of the agenda is just like you said yourself. I thank you, but you haven't been able to convince me, so I'm staying on my side to vote on this separately.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26492	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26493	I'm sorry to call again, but since I'm absolutely incorrect, I have to take this, I'm sorry. First one information, go online and check, the Republic of Croatia has an identical signed agreement with Katar, identical, to help a little, identical, signed. And secondly, management doesn't mean that you're going to apply it, but that you're going to try to find something that suits you so you can embrace the standards that the world has, and we obviously won't. It's not the same management as at Sokoc University or at the University of Travnik and Knights, it's not that kind of administration, it's a little wider, a little wider, and we need to understand that we need to expand our people's perspectives, it's not students who are from 50 to worse, because they need diplomas to get jobs and get the opportunity to manage these people. These are people who are young and who look at their perspective. It's time to stop lifting the hand brake and destroying the lives of young people in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26494	Thank you, Staša Košarac, for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26495	Thank you, Chairman. Given that we are all here today, and also our business opportunity to be able to seek an emergency session, I suggest, if possible, to you as a College, that an extended college be appointed to define that, after the end of this session, we will have a debate on these three important agreements, which were on the Commission today, or to do it in some other way, but let us do it today when we are all present. I'm sure there's going to be a session and a fourth, but here's a chance we can do it, because we're already done with this session, we've only got a vote, that we can do it now, or then we're going to start procedure in a few days to hold an emergency session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26496	So I'm concluding a debate on these agenda points. I suggest to vote, is it enough for 15 or 20 minutes, until 3:15, let's say 3:15 to come to the vote? At 3:15 p.m. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats to begin the vote. So we're voting on the 63rd session of the House of Representatives. We vote first on point 2. – MPs' request: Aleksandra Pandurević, Mladen Bosić, Nenad Lalić and Momčilo Novaković to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No. 01-02-1-1453/18, of 18.06.2018. We're voting on the bill. For eight... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26500	I'm sorry, there's something wrong here. We've voted and there's no... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26501	Wait till I check it out. Come on, look... SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26502	He's right. This is an important thing. Let's see what's... Isaković says he didn't vote at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26503	And I did vote. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26504	All right, let's do it again, fix the system, and that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26505	Is the monitor working? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's working. Let's do it again. So we repeat the vote at 2. For 11, versus 21, abstention 1. There's no general majority. Let's go to point 3. – Proposal for a deposit insurance law in BiH (I.) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-1027/18, since 18.05.2018. (first reading), shortened procedure. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. For 24, against two, abstentions seven. There's a general and entity majority. The law was passed in the first reading. Moving to point 4. – Before the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the flag of BiH – Proposer: MP Saša Magazinović, number: 01-02-1-1206/18, since 16.05.2018. (first reading), shortened procedure. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. For 17, versus 14, abstention 2. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Chief Dzefovich, we're leaving now.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26512	Read Hankin. Let's see.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26513	You want me to read what? _________(?) Yeah. The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly mandates the Council of Ministers to draw up and submit information from a joint session of the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, held on 07 July 2017, following talks and conclusions regarding: 1. By building the Peljega Bridge, the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina's consent. 2. Return of property of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This is a proposal for a conclusion. I'm putting the draft conclusion to the vote. For 22, v. 8, abstention 6. The general majority exists, there is no entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26515	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26516	Later. 50 means point 9. – Information on the reasons for the unrealisation of the initiative to determine the maximum amount of the oil and oil distributor margin – Proposer: MEP Senad Šepić, issue: 01-50-1-15-63/18, since 05.07.2018. So I don't know what we'd vote on here because we don't have information. So we're not voting on point 9. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We're voting right now on a proposal to take points of 10. ...________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26524	The first vote is 10 to 20. If there's a package, there's no need to vote any further. They're texting you here all the way...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26525	Where does it say? SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26526	It says, if we adopt the vote on the proposal, so... BORIJANA
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26527	Okay, I mean, it all comes down to the same, so you know what the situation is. ... I will put the other two members of the College to vote on Nikola Lovrinović's proposal to vote on all points except these two points that he cited. If the proposal fails, we will vote on a proposal to vote on all points in the package. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26528	There's... I'm not up for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26529	Please, I'm in charge of the session. I'm voting on Mr. Nikola Lovrinović's proposal. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26530	We won't support... anything. If this goes through, we won't support any more agreements. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26531	So, in 10, versus 22, abstentions 4 there's no general majority. Now we're voting on whether we're going to vote in a package on all the other points. For 28, v. 3, abstentions 5. The general and entity majority exist. So we've adopted ratification of all agreements. Now that you... SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26532	No, we haven't adopted, we're voting in the package.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26533	And we vote in the package, I'm sorry, okay. We vote now on ratification of the agreement, me morandum and contracts in the package. For 31, v. 1, abstention 4. The general and entity majority exist. So we've adopted ratification of all agreements, memos and contracts. This concludes this session. We have a proposal for the Kolegijum that, for the sake of three agreements that came in the meantime and that went through the procedure on the commission to organise a special session right now only from those three points of the agenda. So we wouldn't wait for the next session, I don't think there's anything controversial about it. We're going to a new session now.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26534	Five minutes off just...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-26-1.u26535	So the service says we're gonna have to wait five minutes for the technique to fit for the new session. Session completed at 3:35 p.m.
