ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26726	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats to begin the session. I am opening the 9th emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House, as well as representatives of the media, were invited to the meeting. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The cabinet of the chairman's council of ministers has been informed that the chairman is unable to attend today's session, and that Edin Dilberović, director of the BiH European Integration Agency, will attend. BiH Finance and Treasury Minister Vjekoslav Bevanda delivered a notice that due to earlier commitments he will not be able to participate in the session, Foreign Ministry has been notified that Minister Igor Crnadak will not be able to attend the session due to earlier commitments. The absence was justified by MPs: Monika Tomić, Diana Zelenika, Milica Marković, Staša Košarac, Damir Arnaut, Nenad Lalić, Predrag Kožul, Senad Šepić, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Valjalica, Hanka Vajzović and Mensura Beganović. Mrs. Kapetanović announced a delay. According to the Service, 20 MPs attend the session. I insist that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. The 9th emergency session of the House was convened in accordance with Article 68. Rules of Procedure with one item of the agenda as indicated to you in the invitation, and at the request of MPs Saša Magazinović, Denis Bećirović, Sadik Ahmetović, Senad Šepić, Mirsad Đonlagić, Fehim Škaljić, Mirsad Isaković, Damir Arnaut, Jasmin Emrić and Damir Bećirović. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. I find the 9th emergency session of the House has the following: Agenda 1. European Commission Interim Report 2018, issue: 01,02-06-1004/18 of 18. 04. 2018 (requestors for an emergency session of MPs: Saša Magazinović, Denis Bećirović, Sadik Ahmetović, Senad Šepić, Mirsad Đonlagić, Fehim Škaljić, Mirsad Isaković, Damir Arnaut, jasmin Emrić and Damir Bećirović). 2 The interim report you received. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador... what happened now? Mr. Emrić, did you give up? jasmin
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26728	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26729	So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26730	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Since the chairman of the Council of Ministers is not present, and as we have heard, there is a director present who can give us an adequate explanation according to this Interim Report, I think it would be appropriate that before we open the debate on this agenda, the Director should contact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26731	Thank you. Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26732	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests. I think that if in this way we discuss all the points at special sessions, that actually this Parliament, I don't know what this Parliament's purpose is. If the Council of Ministers, in fact those ministries this report predominantly refers to do not attend the session, I do not know who this Parliament is talking to. If this Parliament does not want to assume its powers, not to assess the report, the report cannot be changed, it is what it is, but to take its stand against the authorities it controls, then I think this session is immaterial. And that's why I think it should be postponed until the chairman is present, and until he's in full formation of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26733	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26734	Well, I think, unlike fellow Špirić, that this deserves a special, or urgent session, but I also think this deserves the presence of the entire Council of Ministers at the session, because what we have is the work of the Council of Ministers. It would be a good idea to see these intrinsic things that aren't realized, how many there are, six, where Parliament is here, where the Council of Ministers are here and where the other institutions are there, and this is drawn, uh, through these conclusions on the Report. 3 But to deserve urgency, therefore, after ten years, Bosnia and Herzegovina was in front of some countries that are now in candidate status ten years ago. We are in this extraordinary report... with Kosovo, if this is not an emergency, and everyone has signed there, in the European Union all the leaders have signed this initiative, as they have already called it and, as far as I know, that the country's main foreign policy goal is to join the European Union. I think that this deserves urgency, I think that the chairman of the Council of Ministers and all ministers here must be present and we must go in order where we have scheduled and see if we can help the Council of Ministers, and ourselves to speed up Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress towards the European Union. This is not the attitude towards the signatories of this initiative by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, this relationship towards the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its main foreign policy goal and purpose is, in principle, the Council of Ministers. That is why I think this presence is, therefore, mandatory, that it may be necessary to take some time off and that the College provides both ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, or that one of the chairmans of the Council of Ministers of their deputy powers to speak on this topic before the BiH Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26735	So the information is that he is the chairman of the Council of Ministers in Slovenia, but he appointed a representative who should also speak on behalf of the Council of Ministers, Mr Dilberović. Let me remind you, that we are discussing the European Commission's report... SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26736	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26737	The European Commission is the one whose report we are discussing. Normally, we did not invite representatives of the European Commission, perhaps we should have called here a representative of the European Commission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but... __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please don't... If you want, come in. So that's what's called the agenda point, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Progress Report. Mirsad Isaković, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26739	I thank the chairman. In my opinion, this is a very important point, which is why it's been given emergency session status and this initiative is wanted, is it, by emergency procedure. Here is the Commission's report, the European Commission's report, therefore, the Interim Report for 2018, but on our work and work of the Council of Ministers. Just a few days before this report, the Council of Ministers submitted its report, which is completely contrary to what the Council of Europe has delivered here. If we add to this the seriousness of the situation that we have had two letters from the International Monetary Fund where problems have been precisely identified, what has not happened, what has not been done and what has not been done, we get 4 situations that the Council of Ministers has had a report for one state, and these two institutions, meaning that the European Commission Interim Report and the International Monetary Fund that has given its Opinion on Bosnia and Herzegovina have a completely different report, on the other state, and not on Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, for these reasons, I think it is very important that they be representatives of the Council of Ministers and that they be all prime ministers, because all ministries are represented here, and even all levels of government. For these reasons, I think it is necessary and, in my view, I may be incorrect, but it is really incorrect that the Council of Ministers, chairman of the Council of Ministers and Deputys, will not be present at such a session, which is of paramount importance, is it, for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you, here, I suggest, of course and that the members of the Bureau should have been because this is also a matter of foreign policy for which the members of the Bureau are responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26740	Thank you. Mirsad Đonlagić, a correction to the wrong allegations. Please don't discuss under the correction of the false allegations at this stage, because I haven't heard that...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26741	Do you warn me or those who used to speak?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26742	No, no. I tell everyone in general.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26743	And all right, all right, all right. I can't accept the fact that we're wondering why it's like this. Well, first of all, this Parliament and all of us sitting in benches so far have not shown enough respect and self-respect for ourselves. First, it is unacceptable for Mr Wigemark to hand over this report, which is extremely important for Bosnia and Hercegovinum, to hand it over to the College without representatives in the House of Representatives having any information on this matter. I don't understand why it was done so mysteriously, especially, we were present here, a break was made for this report to be submitted. That report could have been submitted in this room. This is number one, under number two, very important and very important that we are discussing this because the issue of Euro-Atlantic integration is a particularly important issue. A significant issue, too, is that all those who come to Bosnia and Herzegovina and their political stances humiliate this country and challenge Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also in the region certainly political earthquakes that my country has far-reaching consequences. Therefore, I believe that this session today is extremely important and that everyone should be present, because we asked that this session, among other things, be scheduled, but who is to respect our request when we do not respect ourselves. This is totally inadmissible that those who are relevant and who need to come here are not present at this session today. Regardless of what's urgent, it's extraordinary because the situation is such that it's exactly the kind of character this session requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26744	May I ask what the wrong quote refers to? 5
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26745	Because there was a dilemma whether to hold or not this session, with presence or absence, I want to say why I don't think people come to the Bureau sessions. I wanted that quote fixed.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26746	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Borjan Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26747	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, all the distinguished guests at the session, I warmly welcome you all. Well, at the beginning of the debate, I really thought she would go the other way, to discuss the European Commission's progress report on Bosnia and Herzegovina. I answered to correct the wrong allegations, here, colleagues I don't know, Đonlagić, and some colleagues who spoke, among other things, about how the Izvjšće was presented to the College, and that the MPs had nothing. So, I'm saying that as a member of the College, I received a presentation, so the European Report is also at this meeting that took place in that break presented the Report, a summary of the Report. So, all that we've got today, because I've been interested in this session, and we haven't received an absolute report because the report has been delivered, a lot of reports, the chairman of both of the Houses that went to the European Integration Directorate for Translation, and I think we could only get it this morning and read it. So, please, let's be serious. Surely this is an important topic to discuss, and I, too, agree and I am ready to see what we can do, but today to adhere to the agenda points, which is, as the signatories put here, the European Commission's Progress Report. So we don't bring in, not to direct, because we really show something else then, not what counterpart Ahmetović just said, that it's important for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that it's not... If that is not the case, and if this is the position of both this Parliament and this Council of Ministers, I think anyone who is responsible and who can approach these commitments today will be fully serious and responsible to discuss this document in order to ensure the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its European path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26748	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26749	Gentlemen chairman. So this session was scheduled three days ago. It is called a special or emergency session, is that right, with the agenda point – Report on the European Commission's progress report or not progress on the European path. The lack of the chairman and most members of the Council of Ministers is, in fact, talking about their relationship with the problem and the challenge. In each normal country, when a special session of Parliament is scheduled, ministers and government presidents are returning to the country to discuss the issue at hand in the agenda. I am telling you that this speaks of the full indifference of all, and of this Parliament which will not take on itself 6 prerogatives which it has to discipline the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers towards Parliament and according to the point of the agenda that is serious. I respect the agenda and we're ready to talk about it, but I think we're wasting our time without the Council of Ministers. So in each, I repeat, the normal prime minister country and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the ministers return to the country when a trial session of Parliament is scheduled and none of these conversators where they went will mind, but will say this is a serious state. What he's showing, there are some delegates there, the MPs talk, we have our own way. Well, if you have it, that's why your report is what it is. And I'd like to, if the College agrees, take a half-hour break, see if this session is going to work today or if we're going to schedule it in three days to honor the Council of Ministers to be present, otherwise it's losing its meaning, believe me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26750	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26751	I disagree with counterpart Špirić's allegations that this shows their relationship to European integration, I am closer to assessing that this shows their impotence and political bankruptcy in this process. On the other hand, I agree with my fellow Špirić, also others, that it is unserious to discuss this process without having anyone to ask. I appreciate the Honorable Director, but I don't think he's the one who should accept all the dissatisfaction of Parliament that clearly exists, with the work of the Council of Ministers and this, by running this process as a whole. We do not have a person here that we can ask, and that we have a credible answer on the coordination mechanism, about what was done to supplement the SAA Committee, why the answers to questions from the questionnaire have been a secret for a long time, why is this a non-transparent and non-inclusive process that does not involve Parliament, why have the messages received in Strasbourg recently, to present a new strategy as they are? There is no Mr. Zvizdić here to ask him what he meant in the tenth month of 2016 when he said he was following the MAP in spring or summer, there is no one here to ask him how to make his promise of candidate status first in the spring of '17, then in the fall of '17. It didn't come true. There is no question to ask him how the level of implementation of the Reform Agenda in three, four days has risen by 30% in various statements without doing anything in that article. There is no Čović who is the champion of optimism to ask him what about the 5th month 2017 promises of candidate status at the end of the year, then candidate status at the beginning of this year, so what about the statements from '16. that there are no obstacles to further progress, then back in '17. that we are getting very nearly candidate status, that the European path is unstoppable, that next year we will be candidates, even in '16. That's it. So, I think if Parliament wasn't involved by now, if we should get at least a chance to get answers to some questions today when we saw that this was one The soap of... well, the bubble of soap, which unfortunately those who are power, exploded before the elections and showed their impotence. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26752	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Sadik Ahmetović. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26753	Well to you, I threw it out of place, so I apologize. We can't fail, as you said, Mr. Bosić, that this is, should come Wigemark and submit the report to us here. So, we're being submitted to the progress of our institutions. So we made a commitment to do some things to gain candidate status. From what I see we have done nothing, even if you look and why this urgency, in the summary of the report the first sentence is electoral legislation. We have elections in five months, what will happen in October if we do not change the electoral legislation. Whether it will be a candidate for Kosovo, and we will continue to watch about how the leaders, one on one side, east, one on the southwest, the third on the loose, don't know where he is either. It's our reality, we're entering a very awkward time for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the report it stands. We have had outsmarts about the Electoral Law, and we have not solved the problem that the European Union requires us to be, and who we want to be, members of the European Union. We don't have statesmen who are willing to take this country forward and that's the problem because they think about the election result in October, and the country where it will be afterwards, nobody cares. So I think this is our report, our institutions report, and it's lined up by segments, let's see how far we've come in line. The chairman doesn't know who the powers are, says where we are in these processes, what has been done, who has failed, whether Parliament, whether they are individuals, whether the state, whether the Council of Ministers is etc. So, that's, that's what we're doing today. You should have. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26754	Thank you. Just to let you know that the agenda item has been rewritten as the proposing has put it without any interventions, and it reads: The European Commission's provisional report. I speak only formally, it is clear that there is a desire to discuss the Interim Report, but it is formally like this. And second, that the European Commission's representation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is being called and this time it has been called for the session. Correction of the wrong quote, Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26755	Chairman, I understand that you have scheduled a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I suggest a half-hour break at which a session of the Extended College will be held, so, College of Representatives, with club presidents. The minimum conditions for holding this session have not been met today for two reasons. First, only five minutes ago we received this translation of the Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, the meeting is not attended by key actors who would have answered key questions from the Report and here is not the purpose of discussing the Report. But let's see what the Action Plan of the Council of Ministers, its Deputy Ministers, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is, with full respect for the presence of three ministers here, the Director of the Directorate and one Deputy Minister, and that, in order for the College to declare the views of the House of Representatives from the obligations under this Report, including the chairman of the Joint Committee on European Integration, I propose that we take a break, hold a meeting, that we do not hold such a debate with the proposals of conclusions to address the House and to make it clear. No problem is that the session is held in seven days that would have its effects on what this Council of Ministers has done or almost nothing to improve the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of the European path, or the way to candidate status. Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26756	Well, you see, there was a possibility that this would go through all the committees of parliament and be put at the next session in the regular procedure and then discuss it after a certain time frame. There's been an emergency procedure request here, and according to the Rules of Procedure, the session has to be scheduled within three days, and now we have this situation. If one suggests that the session should not be held or postponed, he must make such a proposal, and eventually the House will have to declare such a proposal. Deputy Chairman Džaferović. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26757	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. The College has acted on the request of more than five MPs, the chairman of the dom has acted, we have agreed with the others in the College, and today we have here a session of tea, as proposed by the promoter. I share the opinion of all those who say that the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a priority on the European path above all the priorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in that, I think, there is no dilemma in this House. Also, I think that for this kind of debate it is necessary to rule out any politicisation. I will not answer to anyone today, I will not look back on the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina's European road in December 2014 and today, we will talk about this when we need to talk. I think the objectives of this session, which is as initiated as it is, is to see why Bosnia and Herzegovina is lagging behind, why the report is like this and what we need to do as Parliament to help the Council of Ministers and all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina to speed up our European path. That is why the way out of this situation is next, and that is why we are delivering this Report to the Commission for European Integration, that the Commission should review the Report and that this is the first point of the next House of Representatives session to be called to by the chairman and all members of the Council of Ministers, and then in an open debate, we see what we can do to improve this process. So, I propose that we conclude today, therefore, this session, by reaching the conclusion that the Commission's report, the European Commission's report, is delivered to the competent Commission for European Integration, that the first item of the agenda of the next session be this topic and that all those who need to be present at this session be ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-24-0.u26758	I would, since all the debaters have doubted the possibility of holding this session from the point of view of the chairman's Council of Ministers and other members of the Council of Ministers, would put this proposal to the vote by Deputy Chairman Džaferović. Please prepare to vote. For 18, against four, abstentions nine. There is no entity majority in the Federation of BiH. [[/College consent.]] We're going to vote in the second round right now. 9 For 18, v. 4, abstention 9. There's a general and entity majority. This ended the session and concluded that the material should be sent to the Commission for European Integration and put this point at the next regular session of the House of Representatives. Thank you. Have a nice day. Session completed at 11 and 40 o'clock.
