ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22553	Dear MPs and MPs, please take your seats to proceed with the session's work. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, continue the 55th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, which was interrupted on 17 January 2018. The session was called on to continue: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The delays were announced by representatives: colleague, Deputy Mladen Bosić, representative Asim Sarajlić, representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vražalica and representative Željko Komšić. Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak delivered a notice that he would not be able to attend the session. From the cabinet of the BiH Minister of Human Rights and Refugees Semihe Borovac, we have been informed that the minister will be late for the session. According to the service data, 29 representatives are present at this time. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. I note that we interrupted the session after the debate was held on item 8, which is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments of the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina: Representatives Amir Fazlić, Nermina Kapetanović, Šefik Džaferović, Safer Demirović, Hazim Rančić, Asim Sarajlić and Šemsudin Mehmedović, Law No: 01-02-1-2686/17, since 15.11.2017. (first reading) So we move on to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Persons Reporting Corruption in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Aleksandra Pandurević, Borjana Krišto and Mirsad Isaković, Law No: 01-02-1-2687/17, of 15.11.2017. (first reading) The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 17.11.2017, establishing that the proposal for a law is in line with Article 105 of the Treaty. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The House College shall be responsible for considering the draft law by the Constitutional Commission. The Constitutional Commission delivered Opinion 21.12.2017. The commission found that the bill was in line with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system, and supported the principles of the bill. 2 I'm opening a debate. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22555	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm gonna be very brief, I just want to say that this isn't about any fundamental changes, it's about more technical changes. For two years we have had this Law and during its application there have been certain abuses and shortcomings, let's say... the situation that someone has alarm status even if they die, because you have no legal assumption and you don't know how to solve this problem. So it's just some technical corrections of the Law that have been shown during the application, so far the application of the Law needed to be improved a little bit and technically harmonised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22556	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving to point 10, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a deposit insurance law in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2713/17, of 24.11.2017, shortened procedure, with Opinion of the Finance and Budget Committee The BiH Council of Ministers delivered an act withdrawing the bill from the procedure on 04.01.2018, so we will remove this item from the agenda. We're moving on to point 11,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22558	She's retired.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22559	It was withdrawn, I just read it to you, it was withdrawn and taken off at the request of the Council of Ministers. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Report on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 – applicant: BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-16-1-1596/17, of 03.07.2017. The House College has appointed the Committee for Finance and Budget to consider the Report. The Commission delivered Opinion 13.10.2017. The commission didn't accept the report. 3 I'm opening a debate. Representative jasmin Emrić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22561	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I only signed up for a reason to draw attention to the fact that in 2018 we are discussing the execution of the budget for 2016. I don't see the point at all in this, and I don't know why the College didn't bother to at least in 2017 to get this report when, when all the assumptions were made that it could be discussed. We adopted the 2018 Budget and now I see no use having some big discussion and discussion about the implementation of the budget for 2016. So here I would draw attention to the timely discussion of budget documents because it is important for the projection of income and expenditure because it is important for us MPs to be able to monitor the creation of Budget in time for next year, and at such a pace that we have information with a delay of two years on the execution of Budget I think we are just wasting time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22562	Thank you. Representative Fehim Škaljić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22563	Good afternoon to the Bureau, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. I'm joining my colleague Emrić. It's just not information. It's a report. It's a document. From '16. In '18. When we have it, it doesn't make sense to discuss it, and when others see it, they say – these people really don't want to be on the European path. Nowhere does the European way allow 2016. Report on the execution of the budget in front of Parliament in January 2018. If I were you, I wouldn't let him put himself on the agenda. This is to play the role of Parliament and confirm the irresponsibility of all of us to be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22564	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 12, Ad. 12. Report on the financial audit of the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget for 2016 – applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01,02-16-1-2013/17, dated 08.08.2017. The BiH institutions' audit office submitted this report together with the Annual Audit Report on main findings and recommendations for 2016. The responsible Committee for Finance and Budgets separately considered these two materials. Opinion on the 2016 Financial Audit Report 4 Implementations The 2016 budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions was delivered on 27.10.2017. The Commission unanimously accepted the report and adopted the following conclusions. I'm asking you, since you've received in your materials conclusions, should I read the conclusions here? Did you want me to read the conclusions? Don't you need it? Okay. I'm opening a debate on point 12. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 13, Ad. 13. Annual audit report on the main findings and recommendations for 2016 – applicant: BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01,02-16-1-2013/17, from 08.08.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22567	I thank the chairman. I'll be very brief. So we have audit reports periodically, both financial and impact audits, and these audit reports have a purpose. Therefore, the opinion of the auditors should point out the shortcomings of the institutions to be audited. But what's interesting is that a series of five institutions, this one, have recommendations, but nothing works on that basis. The summary report made by the review is a new document that provides one quality in which it is clearly stated, so all thousands and some remarks are set out in several, therefore, joint remarks, or recommendations and should be harmonised. Some recommendations are really objective, and some are subjective. Here, let's say, when it comes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there are both objective and subjective circumstances. Of course, we think there are more subjective but the Law on Foreign Affairs has not been passed, and it is not only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also this Parliament and the Presidency. What I particularly want to point out is the fact that the Council of Ministers did not consider these audit reports until last year and that for the first time last year these audit reports... and that they did not give their opinion on it, they just accepted it. So this is something that I think is very important, and that we should accept. I thank the revision in one new way, one new approach, one new methodology of drawing up these audit reports, and I hope that, uh, institutions that had a negative opinion with the emphasis on the case, they were six or seven, as I recall, this time giving their opinion, or coming out here before Parliament, that was one of the conclusions, I think, the Commission for Finance and Budget, and that it will explain why it is, and give a deadline when it will solve these problems. Here, thank you, I just so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22568	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22569	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, so once a year comes the revision. First of all, I have to say, here's the review this time she's done a big job. This is the first year, i.e. 2016, the first year when new review standards were applied, and they relate to compliance with the law and legal regulations when, in addition to the revision, the financial audit that we have already learned well, we have the first time and this revision of compliance that the audit has declared for each individual institution. So, it covers 74 institutions and the revision made 544 recommendations in 2016, which says that growth, trend, means... the growth trend of recommendations, which means that we are falling discipline in the work of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What does that mean? What is the situation, in fact, according to individual opinions of the revision? Well, here, we only have 23 institutions or only 3.66% of budgets, budget executions are institutions that get a purely positive opinion. It's very small in comparison, so the years go by so we're getting more and more trouble with that amount of pure positive opinions. Second, positive opinions with a distraction of 40 institutions. Of these 40 institutions, 21 say, the institution has a problem with public procurement. So, the question is whether these are positive opinions, regardless of what positive opinions are with distractions, when someone is in trouble with public procurement, all kinds of problems are then kalemi. And as things really stand, you can only see when you look at, when it comes to, a positive opinion with a distraction. Only one institution has a problem on its financial reports, and the harmonisation with the laws and regulations of 15.11 or 31 institutions. So 31 institutions have not aligned their business with the legal system and the laws that regulate its work. ...financial reports and coherence have problems with eight institutions and all together, so that group is 40 institutions. Now, when it comes to thinking with the reserve, it's particularly dramatic this opinion with the reserve because last time we had four institutions, we now have 10 with the reserve. I have to say, first of all, 6 that an institution, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, has come out of this bad society. It came out of that bad society and it came out, but that's why others signed up. The Ministry of Defence has been a permanent follower for years, the Foreign Ministry, the Directorate for Direct Taxation. But what about the entire Security Sector, it's in this segment, what happened to our security that all agencies and the Ministry of Security, and the Coordination Directorate, and the SIPA and the Border Police have entered the group of audit reports with the reserve. These are all large budget users and it should be a signal, it should be a signal to the Finance and Budget Commission and the Defence Commission, because they are the ones who should follow, and to all of us individually, that something needs to be done on this plan. Your reserve group includes both the judiciary and the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and the D.A.'s Office. Therefore, out of those 10 institutions that have received an opinion with reserve nine, there are problems with public procurement. It has become a question of all issues – public procurement. Niko one can say that it works well if it isn't, there's no regulated public procurement system, and we see that institutions don't do much to make it better in that part of things. What is important is to further say what are the main remarks – weaknesses and shortcomings in the procurement process, but also internal audit and compliance of the Internal Regulation an organisation with valid decisions. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Is it five minutes? Well, you didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22570	We're continuing the session, it's said advanced.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22571	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22572	Thank you very much. Representative Fehim Škaljić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22573	... 80 points of the revision agenda. One impression – the revision is getting better, and Parliament is on fire. The revision improves its working methods, and we remain on the same, discussing the spending of public funds, and the position of this Parliament as legislator does not produce any acts. Who will have direct consequences about any of our views on these 80 points of the agenda? We'll discuss it, we'll turn this esteemed House into a talking room so that our final attitude can be taken to the knowledge. To take in knowledge is to flee responsibility and not to assume that role which is to the supervisory authority such as Parliament on behalf of the citizens... Why don't we change the approach in our rules to change that, why are we running away from the responsibility of those who spend public funds if... institutions whose work we tell them is good and... not improving, we can't say those measures of responsibility. It doesn't have to be direct, but we have formed a Council of Ministers, we can give the Council of Ministers a directive or not support, we can give a warrant or recall it, but we can't be indelicate in front of the citizens and irresponsible that 80 points of the agenda today are voted out here in an approach to knowledge. I won't vote that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22574	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go, counsel. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22575	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. Well, here, I would also like to say that the way we've been working on a longer period of time has put us in a position to discuss very important documents in a hurry, discuss with a delay and discuss after the adoption of important documents for 2018, notably Budget, this one, and that we haven't done an analysis of the business of the institutions in the previous year. That is why, here, why here today, both colleagues and fellow MPs, probably because of the timing we had, is, and the way we worked, or are reluctant today to talk on this topic or simply do not need to, uh, report that we say a few very important things that were a problem in the last year when it came to the execution of the Budget, and what was a problem for the Office of Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I want to say here when it comes to reviewing that, despite having a positive trend, certain negative phenomena resurface and they represent a problem in functioning, and they are essentially the reason why certain institutions have such an assessment when it comes to the financial report but also when it comes to the impact, such as the problems present today in public procurement processes or inadequate prevention and the fight against corruption and crime, then the regulation of fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I want to say a few examples. Here, yesterday, when it comes to the public procurement process at the Finance and Budget Commission, we discussed one, one report or we analyzed the Office's review report, and it concerns the impact exactly on the basis of this, uh, success of the procurement process itself. Can you just calm these stories down a little bit?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22576	I'm trying so lightly, but here, I'm asking MPs and MPs not to comment, so they don't interfere with a colleague in the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22577	... my colleagues, this is a very important topic and we should talk about it. So, yesterday, when you hear from the Commission for Finance and Budget, that is, when you analyse the impact report, you realize that certain institutions in this country are waiting for the final contract on public procurement to expire, and only after the end are they asking about new public procurements, and in the meantime, with the same supplier, they sign contract annexes, which is illegal of the Public Procurement Act. And that opens up a space of corruption and crime. So we need to talk about it, and apparently many colleagues and colleagues either don't want to or, in a way, put it aside. These are essential problems when it comes to the work of institutions, it comes from that segment of public procurement. Or, here, if you have read the financial report in detail then you will see that despite the fact that in the previous year we applied and asked the institutions to cut travel costs, to cut mobile and fixed phones and to use official cars, there was an increase of 1.6666,000 KM, so I will note that travel costs are higher by 6.83%, that mobile phone expenses, this is about the institution of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, increased by 6 per cent, expenditure on official vehicles by 9 per cent, etc. And here's what we could talk about and talk about, but here, and you've cut us some slack this time. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And, here, through certain conclusions regarding this topic that we are talking about today, we will try in an independent, club Independent Block to highlight and try through the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly to assign the Council of Ministers, i.e. institutions to work in one, this, more responsible way in the coming period. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22578	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, debate. Here you go, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22579	Dear Chairman, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. Since this is the third one, as I recall, the continuation of this session, and it seems immaterial that within one session we find nearly 70 agenda points related to the audit office's report. I don't see the possibility that any of the MPs and with the best of intentions, I suppose we're all in that position, can discuss this report in a good way. That is why I think it would be good, and in this sense, I propose that we pass this session formally today, and that a special session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is scheduled for reports that have serious objections to the Office for Audit, particularly which have a negative report from the Office for Audit. That would... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] But there is, so there's no negative but there's a reserve. It would... show that we from the House of Representatives and MPs are ready to discuss the comments of the Office of Audit because it is an evolutionary process, not a game... so that we look forward to having or not... and to see where there is evolution in the application of measures, where there is no and in that sense the House of Representatives goes with conclusions on this type of report. The ones where they are positive, which are positive reports for institutions almost and there's nothing to argue about, unless someone has other arguments, but for those where they have serious objections and suggestions, I think at least the College should have made a decision to split the reports into two sets, one where there are no objections and suggestions, the other where there are. And where it's not going to go as a part of the agenda, and where we're going to devote ourselves to having a special session. And that would show that we're ready... to work. Today, we will leave, I suppose, this debate, discuss 70 points as if we had not discussed and the processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina will go the way they go without the influence of us from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22581	Thank you. Representative, colleague, deputy Šefik Džaferović, debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22582	Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. For me, the debate on these documents has always been in order, if we can rank the debate here in the House of Representatives, the most important topics this House and otherwise the Parliamentary Assembly should discuss. The institution's audit office on the financial audit of 9 institutions has, therefore, been an institution that has been a new institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system for some 15-16 years, and I think Bosnia and Herzegovina has taken significant steps on this plan. What we discussed so far when it came to review, we discussed the character of the audit itself. We know it's not an institution that reports anyone, it's an institution that determines the facts, and those who deal with law enforcement need, acting according to their findings, to enforce the laws as the law and the Constitution obliges them. And that's the thing we discussed once, we can't ask the Office to review any additional intelligence now, it's against international standards. And so much for the Audit Office. Now let's see how all this is considered together, how all this is reflected in the framework of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think we've exhausted all the mechanisms and given all the answers to all the questions that come up. I also belong to those who believe that the House of Representatives should discuss these reports more closely, if they should be divided into groups of these reports according to the type of assessment, because I think it is in the interest of both these institutions and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think our Finance and Budget Committee has made a good report, that it has done a good review of the situation. What is missing in the report debate is a different relationship between both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's representative and the House of Peoples, but there is also a missing relationship regarding the analysis of what the audit found to be a problem. I think that we occasionally, quarterlyally, without these audit reports need all the questions that the review has put into question both at the BiH Council of Ministers and at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I think that would be the right answer to this question. And, therefore, I belong to those who feel that we shouldn't just go through this, no matter how long the session lasts, which is her third follow-up. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22583	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22584	I agree with Mr Džaferović only in that this is the most important topic, but you did not say that this is the situation and that Parliament is not dealing with audit reports in this way that it is the sole responsibility of ourselves. Parliament is the first partner of the review, for nothing is 73 audit reports if it springs like this as it just happened here... half of what it is, I thought it was important to say. The MP's been talking about 70 for five minutes, and I don't know how many reports. It's for nothing, that's how we show our relationship. There is no repair of the situation until Parliament brings each of these institutions in and asks why it behaves like that. Are we ready for that? Or we're only willing to talk about it if it's someone else, if ours is speechless. What kind of responsibility have we set in motion? This is a question I've often asked, not just now, but very often I've asked, responsibility for public work. It's gotta be somebody's answer. Someone's got to be replaced for it. We have terrible things in the audit reports. The audit sits, here, the last time she sits, she loses all day, we have no respect for that job that they do, and we haven't done anything to change these things. When we are ready, then, what fellow Špirić has suggested, we are dealing with one day, let's go if we can't institution by institution let's just do one day's thinking with the reserve. Let's see why the other audit houses give a negative opinion, why our office doesn't give. What are these relations that two revisan houses, meaning entity without pardon share negative opinions, and our revision barely So we have a lot to talk about when we're ready for it. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 10
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22585	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Isaković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22586	Thank you. The correction of the wrong allegation refers to Mr. Džaferović's discussion. What I want to say with the support of everything you've said, of course my colleagues, but there's something missing here, so we don't have the Council of Ministers' opinion. It is very important for me to have the Council of Ministers give their opinion on all these audit reports, to know what it is, what it refers to. So, if you noticed that in this report there is no such thing. And what is very important is that the Commission has made a few points which, which have also suggested that one that is negatively thought about that programme to remove these shortcomings and that this Parliament is discussing it here, you know, and I think we already have such conclusions, but that these conclusions must be implemented. In my opinion, then, we must have the Council of Ministers' opinion on all these conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22587	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22588	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Well, here, I understand what Mr. Džaferović was talking about when it came to the situation on which the review made certain remarks, this is, reports are available to the public and institutions that can analyze further, however, and when we are here we have certain competences. I just couldn't say it, but again, that the Council of Ministers adopted the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015-2018, the Action Plan was done, the institutions adapted it to their business, but then we have a situation in which the audit says, and through the revision it confirms that public procurement processes, employment, the most risky processes leading to corruption and fraud. Who is responsible for the strategy, if it has adapted through the institution to its business, to start a process like this when it sees it? Here, when it comes to public procurement, so if it is found that it is not on time, first no public procurement is planned, second one is not in time to start a new process, the contract with the old supplier has been concluded, which is why the Public Procurement Agency has not responded, or in the extreme case of the Board of Appeal? We need to talk about these things. And that is why the Council of Ministers should be able to work together with the institutions that have these strategic action plans to fight corruption and crime. Since those strategic plans were adopted, we don't have any cases. And so this is an ideal business, but when we read the papers, when we have official institutions' documents independent of this case when it comes to state review, then we see that, that It's a completely different situation. [[the speaker is warned on time]] That's why we should be a little more active in this debate and looking for solutions to fight corruption and crime that is present. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you. I'm sorry. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22589	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22590	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, I commend all my colleagues and colleagues, all present in the hall, since I'm reporting for the first time. So, I've been asked by a few colleagues to report for, here, a supplement, that is, correcting an incorrect quote, I'd rather say a supplement, for example. Mrs. Majkić. Indeed, as I have seen in the debates so far, it has only gone to the core of the story, therefore, on the audit reports and made constructive proposals, as well as Mr Špirić, as well as Mr Džaferović. So, I'd just say this if we were sometimes sadomasochistically in the mood, so we're making rules about how we behave here, we're making time, we're cutting points, so we can work and beyond these sessions, we can make proposals for conclusions, initiatives, decisions, here on this Parliament, and we can suggest them, and just get up and say that there are 70, 80 points and that I won't discuss it, so we can discuss here five days, who's defending us. So, is anyone defending us? So this is what we regulate and don't let us spray ash here when we create our own work. We can work, here, as far as I'm concerned, in the five extensions of this session or the sessions, we can share some of the audit findings, as Mr Špirić is, we can do whatever we want, so we're the ones who create it. But it seems to me that just the colleagues who have not prepared themselves have not read, and of course they cannot participate, then use this as a polygon and here they think that Parliament is not doing this, that it is too little, that it is too short, that it is not how and I don't know what. So, by each point, we can propose the various types of documents that the Rules of Procedure provides, and we are not clear, so why are we wasting this kind of time instead of focusing on the subject and that the one who has prepared to talk, to propose, to ask, to offer, etc. So that's all I wanted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22591	I thank Representative jasmin Emrić, the correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22592	I thank the chairman. To supplement the discussion...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22593	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22594	to supplement the discussions of colleagues and colleagues who discussed these points of the agenda, in a way that said that the Office of Audit established and gave 544 recommendations. Each recommendation has its own weight and responsibility and it is the Council of Ministers' obligation to implement recommendations, as well as the institution of this country to implement these recommendations, and our role of Parliament is to follow the implementation of these recommendations, so let us say to the Council of Ministers - gentlemen, you are responsible, because you are not doing anything or little doing to implement these recommendations. And the greatest responsibility, gentlemen, is in those who are in power in 12 of this country, because these are your personnel, you should tell them – please, remove these shortcomings, implement these recommendations within the given deadlines. And then we'll have a far better and fancy and every other situation in our institutions. So, the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, the role of Parliament is in the control of the implementation of these recommendations, it is all clearly divided. We have very well-prepared and quality recommendations for years, not just for 2016, but I think it's high time to face those recommendations not being implemented by those who are competent to conduct them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22595	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22596	I'll take it for a while. My colleague Niko was telling no one to argue and he's basically right, but I wanted to say that it would be reasonable for this Parliament to be aware of the responsibility of a special set of reports to have a report with a review, thereby giving meaning to the Audit Office and opening a fundamental story of what is missing. People at a time when we talk, when resolutions are made outside Bosnia and Herzegovina about Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose attitudes we generally agree with, and we do nothing, are seen here from the audit reports. It is no accident that all of these, especially all of these police agencies and judicial institutions, have the highest recommendation of the Audit Office. Are we gonna talk about this or not? If I don't mind having 130 points, we'll finish them in an hour and a half, but it's not a discussion of the report and the recommendations of the Audit Office. So I recommended with the best intention of having a debate today on those where there is no revision, and that a special session, we certainly work twice a month or once, have a fundamental debate. These recommendations may be good, they will help, not perhaps, they are certainly with the best intentions, but let's see what we as Parliament may need to change the legislative frameworks, we can do to help these institutions, not to accuse them. We get these signals from outside through the recommendations and the Council of Europe and Brisel and the State Department, etc., but we won't hear it. That was my intention, to conduct a fundamental debate on institutions that had received an opinion with a reserve. Let's take them off today, nothing's gonna happen, and if we have a first-point session or if we just had that point, I'm about to just have that point and see what the role of Parliament is. Encourage these recommendations to help these institutions. [[the speaker is warned on time]] We have been talking about the Public Procurement Act for years, not only at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, from local communities, entities, everyone has a problem, maybe there's something wrong with the law. Let's get people to talk, here's the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22597	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22598	Thank you. In the meantime, there were several false allegations, so I'm going to try to correct, just the previous question, so I'm going to have time, and we're here on 9th point material screens, and we're sitting, and I don't know why the points we discussed have been lifted, we haven't finished this session yet. 13 So we have the 9th as if it were a new session, and I think it's important that we have the material from the entire session, I don't know why our election laws are down, maybe someone wants to read it before the vote again, so they can see how they're going to vote. So, this is a technical matter and I ask you to fix it for us. And as for what counterparts Špirić and Lovrinović were talking about, so this is the third attempt to finish this session or the third follow-up, however you wish. I think the goal is to, most of it, not end this session today. Why? Because if we finish and exhaust the agenda we will have to vote on election laws and will likely fall the electoral laws of both HDZ and SDA at the moment when Mr Izetbegović, Čović and Ivanić in Brussels negotiate precisely on these electoral laws. And I don't think most of them are going to let this session end and that as long as they're in Brussels, they get the information that it all fell into the water. But it would be good and correct that these principled discussions, as important as the revision is, is not the first time that the revision is on the agenda, and so far it has been, so something I haven't seen that my colleague Lovrinović has been so committed to having a thorough discussion. I'm the first one for it, but can you just tell us if the goal is to finish the session today or if it doesn't end, are we going to open 56th or not? After all, it is correct for us sitting here, as well as for the journalists who follow.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22599	I appreciate it. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22600	Thank you very much. Well, I don't know what I'd call this, colleagues and colleagues, since it's not really about the wrong assumption, namely some of the ideas that came out of the debate here so far, and I don't really have anything, so I don't care if we're going to discuss all the points today, one group of institutions, etc. I want to say that it seems that we in Parliament have come to our senses because we have never debated this way before. So all of these colleagues who are now proposing these are, or some of them, in Parliament, and we've never had suggestions this way, so we're dividing by groups, we're discussing one group, we're talking about another group. And it's a good thing that we came to Parliament, here, all of a sudden to reason, means that every report has to be detailed to study. Of course, I'm not going to say that the way he talked about, I don't think it's like Mr. Magazinović said, that it has some intention that the session doesn't end, but it would be good if we ended up really in one serious tone. We got reports here, if we're gonna change anything in these reports, I'm in favour of having a discussion for days and days and I don't mind. If some of my colleagues have any idea how to implement these recommendations, and I'm going to respect that, and I think that's what we deserve to discuss until we solve all the problems they're writing here. But gentlemen, almost all of these problems have been here for 10 years, too, when others were in power, and now that they're in power, I don't know. So I would beg the College to direct the debate in some way. [[The speaker warns on time]] If we have a proposal from fellow Špirić, then give it, he has a completely different relationship with the debate, so if we adopt this at the end of the session it's pointless, so we should make a statement about this. If we're about to share, let's take a break and share, and I don't know, I don't mind, but I'm not into it. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22601	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go, counsel. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22602	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. We've heard this is an important topic, but if it's an important topic, don't take away our right to talk more or less about this important subject, is it, how you shortened this to 5 minutes and so largely, extensively in the agenda when it comes to revisions? I don't mind if I see this audit report that we have a hundred points like this, but what's the key question here is -- why isn't there any negative reports? I'm sure there are negative reports in Scandinavia. According to these audit reports, our situation is perfect, there is no crime, there is no corruption, there is nothing wrong with public procurement, there is nothing wrong with employment, and every day, every day, every day, every day, every citizen in this country's money is being stolen. And it's become so free that no one else in this country is afraid of anything anymore, because, here's how we see it and the auditors aren't going to do their thing, the prosecutors aren't going to do their thing, and we have a country that's threatening to, and we are, by all accounts, one of the most corrupt countries in the region. If we open up now the corruption issues that should be raised here when it comes to public procurement, and that leads to negative reports. So do you want me to bring you lists of people who are employed, and who are, in the institutions in this country, with whom they are related, how they are employed, without competition, etc., etc. So you want me to bring it to you next time? Well, it's not possible that no one can be admitted outside Sarajevo in the border police force, so how are they all morons outside Sarajevo who can't be admitted to one of the police agencies? Well, that's the key issues, that's, that's what threatens freedom and justice in this country, and you're one of the institutions that needs to do it and come here and there's not a single negative report and I need to praise you, is there? No, we won't, I won't praise you, I won't praise you because you're not independent, because you're afraid of those you're making audits, you're afraid of your positions, and then you won't write what they are, which is the actual state there in all the agencies. Well, this is about money from these citizens and you're in charge of saying how it's spent. And you wrote that everything was fine, you wrote that everything was fine. I'd like you to say otherwise, so come out and say otherwise. There's not a single negative report, so it's like we're Sweden or Norway. Well, that's, that's facts, which we don't talk about. If we talk like this and if we have this approach, then we're going to need to have a discussion and 15 minutes or 20, we're going to need this broken down into some group of reports, and if it's all right like this, so we can, in five minutes, we can end it, there's no corruption, there's no crime, everything's in competition, it's all in procedures, and we're almost as close as Sweden or Norway, and here's what month we're going to be a member of the European Union. That's what your reports say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22603	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22604	I thank the chairman. I really do need to stand in the defence of the audit office regarding what the distinguished colleague Ahmetović was saying. I don't doubt their independence at all, and if there is any professional institution, it's them. So you're not going to say, here's if there's political influence, we see that it's not a great audit report from the Ministry of Defense, that counterpart Vrankić just found himself critical of it, here we all know in the last term a man sat here with us. It's not a fellow Ahmetović's problem with the audits, the problem is in the laws, you know, the problem is that we have a bad law on public procurement, so it's quite possible to set up a tender and a job in accordance with the 15 Act and we all know it, but you don't have any proof that some legal provisions have been violated, and the Office of Audit works in accordance with the laws. And you're right when you say about employment, but you know, we have this problem that's being done again according to the law, which means we don't have a good State Service Act and, here, I've been watching the State Service Act that your club has proposed, which is even worse, gives even greater authority to the State Service Office that does that, which pre-records the commission, instead of narrowing down their powers, you're giving them even more powers to enlarge those lists in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22605	Thank you. Representative Mensura Beganović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22606	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. As for the findings of the Audit Office, or the work of the Audit Office, I am, in some ways, happy to have these audit reports in front of us from which we see the true state of affairs, because from other documents it is very difficult to see us as advocates. But then I'll go back to the quality of those reports and what I expected after several audit reports, and now I'll just point out a few things that matter to this one, which I've seen in this audit report, and they're repeated year after year. So, the problem is draining budget resources into processes, court processes, so work-legal relations are at 5.4 million marks and the audit report is demanding to withdraw, I wonder why it does not ask to raise the question of the responsibility of those who caused this, this situation. The second much more alarming situation is related to judicial proceedings, whether the lawsuits that Bosnia and Herzegovina, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina should in some ways, in the worst case, lose them, amounting to around 1,360,000,000 KM. These are well-known processes relating to the claims of the Štrabag, the Elektrolordship of Slovenia, etc., where I wonder again whether the audit finding should have been such as to raise the issue of responsibility, to raise the question of the responsibility of those who led to such a devastating result. So, the findings of the audit are really focused on the causes of numerous court disputes and the reasons why Bosnia and Herzegovina loses them in international and domestic courts, and from the lower and even to the Constitutional Court, is something I expected to be in this report. The other thing I'd like to mention is the non-engagement of the credit funds and the fee we pay for it. For this report, it is pointed out that we have about three billion unused credit funds that we pay about 10%, so about three millionths of a fi. Why we haven't realised these loans, is this just about the Public Procurement Act, which is the problem in our public procurement procedures, is something that needs to be analyzed and through the results of the audit reports. And what is most interesting to me and most important to me in the whole story from 2014 to 2016, when we look at the audit reports, and today it is 2018, they get through the same things, they get through the same things. Here, I'll make a few points. There's one that I know for a fact that not even a day today has been realized, which is the management of the taken-off goods in customs proceedings. This is one finding from 2014 when eight reports were made with the reserve, given with the Reserve of the Taxation Directorate, and we, as the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, had the opportunity to discuss the same problem with representatives of the Directorate for Direct Taxation about the same matter some two months ago, if I am not mistaken, where no 16 issues have been resolved today. A similar situation is with public administration reform, so the results of the public administration reform that have been given as observations in the 2014 findings are not much better. And the third thing I want to point out, and there are eight of them here, not to read them all now, is the efficiency of FIPA to attract foreign investment. So why do we have the same negative, same negative findings from 2014 to 2016, and none of these institutions got the final negative findings of the Audit Office? And on page 27 of this review report on the main findings of the 2016 recommendations, you have a finding, which I fully agree with, the Council of Ministers, therefore, either has no developed mechanisms or has no capacity to act in accordance with the audit requirements in its individual institutions to which this applies. So, I'm not just unhappy with finding the revision in the sense that they didn't give any negative reports to any institution, but with the work of institutions, which in any case is something that we should consider to support the proposal that all those reports that got the negative results, the finding with the reserve, are we to single out in a separate group that should really be discussed at a separate session. So in this sense, I support the proposal of Mr. Nikola Špirić, a colleague of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22607	Thank you very much. Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22608	Thank you very much. So, short for my colleague Pandurević. So she has a need to defend this kind of audit attitude towards financial business institutions, she probably has some reasons. If the problem is also in the laws of these people who run, uh, institutions need to suggest where the legal problem is and what should be changed so that they can do this kind of work better. And, therefore, as an MP, I stand at the disposal of these people to help us, not to have the condition that we have, and we say that we're going to write reports that we're going to say that everything is okay, because God's laws don't allow us to do anything different. And when the second kind of her comment is about the proposal that the Independent bloc has in parliamentary procedure, and about amending the Law on State Service, I don't understand what a colleague is talking about, she probably didn't read the Law or understand the essence of what we have at the moment, so according to the legal solutions and what our intensity really is. Under the current State Service Act, it has been allowed for the manager to take whoever he wants from the list of successful candidates, not to be first-ranked. What we now propose in this first step and demand is necessarily the best candidate, the first-ranked one who will, therefore, be accepted. By, of course, when we open this kind of story and move on, we did not purposely do so in this very first proposal, that in a broader context we do not get some larger kind of people who will be against us here in the Parliamentary Assembly, but that, of course, we will also look for a change in the way that commissions are formed, in which way it is done and in what sense we can, therefore, improve this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22609	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22610	Thank you. Ma, I believe, dear colleague Šepiću, that you do know what I'm talking about, at least from the time you did part of the executive government, the details of which I won't give, but your bill, which is exactly what you need to change the way the commissions are formed, not that the handfuls at the State Service Agency of three people who play by the notes of the other three men give the opportunity to set up them. It's always the first thing they want, and if they don't, I don't want to talk about corruption buying jobs in this country, please don't, so we all know that jobs in this country are being bought. And who do they buy from? Of those who sit on those committees. And now you're giving them unlimited power that even their mistakes can't be corrected and corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22611	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22612	Thank you, Chairman. Well, in a way, a replica to all those who criticize the work of the Office for Audition, I, not Bog, would have given them nothing to know what is going on and what is the degree of corruption and crime, at least people get to know us about it. Here's specifically when it comes to these judicial disputes, so people have defined 5.5 million this year, planned for the next 8.5 million, and said that the damage based on the unfounded deprivement of freedom, the compensation for the conclusion of the contract on public procurement, the compensation on the basis of the damages produced for the issue of CEMT permits, the illegal termination of employment relations, and all the taxation stated. Well, then said, that this is the cause, that the reason for the lack of responsibility and non-domestic relationship against public funds and then found that there is no mechanism for determining responsibility for the damage done to the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What else did the office or the audit office need to do? The rest should be done by this Parliament, the Council of Ministers and to establish this system of responsibility and to eliminate the influence of policy and political leaders to protect certain people, the heads of certain institutions dealing with such actions. Someone has to answer if Bosnia and Herzegovina in Washington loses that billion and a half, or a hundred million, or what a colleague was talking about earlier. So, the audit office has informed us that there are problems, it's up to us to remove them in some particular story, and not just in some way this year is just a force and just go over this thing and welcome the next one. Financial reports. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22613	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, we have representative Mirsad Isaković, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22614	I'm sorry, I'm not used to answering again, but this really feels like we're going in circles, this one. I simply want to propose what is with a positive opinion that we are discussing it together and to resolve it as is proposed and revised. However, these 10 institutions that have a negative opinion and with the emphasis on the subject I would suggest, given that this is a very serious matter and that even in these discussions we have serious problems, that this be a special item of the agenda at some next session to work effectively in terms of not discussing, I don't know, 80 points of the agenda has a positive opinion, I don't know what to discuss. But if we have a negative opinion of 10 institutions that were obliged to deliver even a written report on the elimination of these objections, then that we are discussing this and that these institutions come here to Parliament and expose their programme of exit from such a situation. Thank you very much, here's the deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22615	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22616	It's not a colleague's dot, it's a decimal point. There are things we haven't even touched, one of the main things about the audit reports is that the prosecution will act on them. At a number of meetings where we were listening to this story, the Prosecutor's Office stated itself and actually qualified the audit reports as impossible to act, because they were created in a certain form that in no way could allow the prosecution to work on them. So we have not achieved as Parliament a key condition that the link of the audit – the prosecution, and then with our help to start changing things. Until that moment, all stories are in vain. All the audit reports went first, so now they're going with the reserve, there's no negatives, so that's easier. What's the D.A.'s office doing? Who's doing the audit, who's even... watching? We didn't touch that very essence of the audit work. Well, whenever we want to, and that'll be when we're seriously involved in this business, it'll probably get bigger.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22617	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22618	Well, people, I've been listening to this all along and I've been trying to explain to myself the difference between these reports and the previous reports, so they've produced this kind of debate, and the previous ones never have. I didn't answer that, I called to say that it's not true that this Parliament has done nothing when it comes to the prosecution's relationship with the audit reports. Several times, I don't know how many times now, we've come to the conclusion in this House that all these reports are delivered to the D.A. and that the prosecution is acting on these recommendations. Just because the D.A. didn't act doesn't mean it's our fault we didn't give the D.A.'s office a different warrant. What could Parliament have done except what he did? Here, I would like really colleagues who are discussing today to say what they have proposed, what they have proposed 10 years ago so far, and some 10 years sitting in this Parliament, what they have suggested differently from what they have proposed today, a recommendation proposed by the revision, and how they have proposed a different way of solving this problem. When I hear that, I'll understand and make sure that this debate leads to a solution. I am more than sure that the aim of this debate is not to correct the recommendations of a negative or bad finding in the reports but rather something else entirely. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22619	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go. A colleague of Dušanka's third correction, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22620	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome all my colleagues, present guests and gentlemen from the Council of Ministers. The revision includes financial audits of the workflow, as we would say... work during the year and legal audit, because everything I said – the workflow and the financial flow, is something that is supported or has a basis in legal basis in the work of all institutions, from ministries to what is at lower levels. Now, there's a toothpick in the audit reports. As the recommendations are said to be made, such recommendations are necessary and recommendations are essentially about everything that we are talking about here, all of this is a legal basis. A couple of fine examples, where we're sitting now, are built in the equipment of Končar and Bosa, call a public tender for spare parts and writes – 3 megabytes, 3, I don't know,... this one, so many gigabytes, so many, these are like spare parts, you can't write that you have Bosova equipment. There's an offer coming in from China that's incompatible and it can't be installed but it's cheaper and it matches the characteristics you've given. It's our Public Procurement Act. And then you spin around in circles because you can't, and it takes months and months. This is what I say apropo equipment for, say, operators in the telecommunications system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But don't lie to the devil, it's subject to essentially only one percent, so we've had a terrible problem going into technological recovery. I know of one tender that's been going on for two years, instead of Simmons's equipment, they all appear in a row, but they can't, they can't, they're Simens's, because it's in the first one, it should change everything. But that's obviously not interested in the revision to say that the problem is in the law. When it comes to employment, I fully agree with my colleagues. Freedom of opinion and evaluation of people's expertise is how we have a negative selection and selection of incompetent people. When that thing comes about young people leaving, then I'll talk to specific names. Two people were thus eliminated, had a full name and last name, and placed, one to the seventh, one to the ninth place in the evaluation. And don't lie to the devil one of them is today the director of the Department of Automation of Norway, here he couldn't have a reference job working out of that area. The second today in Pasadena is in the largest engineering company in the world, the largest, here was 11. It's hard for us to give it that way, because it's the kind of people who don't know what the profession is. There's only one thing in this country. It's only in a country where politics has entered blood vessels, in a country that has decided to destroy the future itself, and That's exactly what it's destroying itself through. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you, Madam Chairman. We're gonna have a lot more to talk about, and I said, I'm gonna say full names and names of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22621	Thank you. Staša Košarac's representative, the debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22622	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers and other guests. I think this is an important question, and above all... 20
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22623	I warn MP Zaim Backović not to interfere.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22624	First of all, I would refer to the Audit Service by expressing the view that I believe that you who work in the Audit Service have professional credibility and I believe that your previous work experience has indicated that you have not had any results on the work you would not have been in the Office of the Master Audit. Therefore, I think that question of credibility... the context should not be opened today at a House of Representatives session. When it comes to political independence and policy relations with you, as with others, it may be an open question, but if we are exhausted about it, we can go far on the dimensions of political pressures. What I'd like to say, and I'll look first of all, I'd say, on the reserve reports, that's where you should say, first of all, that you've shown some kind of professional credibility, because I guess it's not easy to come up with a negative opinion. When I say in my opinion with the reserve, first of all, that's what the jargon refers to as a negative opinion, that there are problems there. I must mention that in your report you stated that the opinion with the reserve refers to the Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities, the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange, the Ministry of Security of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the Ministry of Defence of BiH, the State Agency for Protection and Investigation of SIPA, the Border Police, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of BiH, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and the Directorate for Direct Taxation. In these 10 institutions at the common level, there are problems identified by the Chief Audit Service. If we were living in a normal society, it would be an alarm in our community because obviously those who are in charge of law enforcement sanction those who break the laws obviously have a certain kind of problem with applying positive legal rules. And here you need strong support from the House of Representatives for you doing the job. These institutions were supposed to be institutions, I would say, mirrors of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What do we have today? In public, we are all witnessing the fact that everyone is related to crime and corruption with an equally general concept of the Public Procurement Act. Today, when you ask a small child who's a criminal or who's in corruption, those who deal with a public procurement system say every child. It is a general concept in the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities of BiH, here stands - weaknesses and shortcomings in the process of public procurement, Ministry of Security – weaknesses and shortcomings in the process of public procurement, Prosecutor's Office of BiH – weaknesses and shortcomings in the process of public procurement, Ministry of Defence – weakness, no internal controls regarding... public procurement in the system of weakness and failures in the making up of tender documentation, State Agency for Investigation and Protection of BiH – shortcomings and weaknesses in the process of implementing public procurement procedures, Border police alike – shortcomings in the implementation of procurement procedures of official vehicles, Ministry of Foreign Affairs – decisions on principles for determining the internal organisation of the body, shortcomings and weaknesses in public procurement procedures, High Judicial and Prosecutorial advice – irregularities and shortcomings detected in the procurement process, the Directorate for indirect taxation – the lack of public organisation of procurement, shortcomings in the process of public procurement, etc. I think it is our responsibility here that we sit in Parliament to support the Service of the Master Audit, and not only to give support, but to see how these institutions, which have opinions with the Reserve, have a lot of irregularities in their work, to find adequate answers with other institutions as well. With that in mind, I think it would be very justified for these 10 reports to be separated from this. I also believe that Mr Špirić's proposal is one of the best examples in which 21 of us could do so in Parliament in an appropriate way. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And with that in mind of you, the chairman, I ask you to give this conclusion to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22625	Thank you. Representative Hanka Vajzović, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22626	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all present. In fact, I'd like to start in this review report, and I'd like to start from the findings or the indignity of my colleague, Škaljić, if we were to take this into account. It's really becoming a problem, and we don't even know what that means anymore. If we take the knowledge, so we read it, get acquainted with the material, and we can just cut ourselves, if we don't receive knowledge, or if we vote against it, then we'll pretend we haven't read it, or we don't care, so we don't have any objections to this. The audit report itself seems to have certain items and a pattern, so much is covered. And here I am, dealing with the Border Police, the report, a lot of it is quite correctly covered but remains and what has not actually been shown anywhere. I'm talking here about an answer that, which we got on some occasion to a fellow Arnaut where it may have remained in that border police station, and nowhere else is clearly different, the rest of the data from maybe tens of thousands of KM spent on some work lunches and dinners. When you read it, that answer that a colleague Arnaut got, you see, in fact, you can actually conclude that they don't have any work space at all, but they've been meeting somewhere to do jobs in three or four restaurants and so on all year round. But here, let's say it's not much money. This is where the audit report specifically pointed out, and again in other institutions, it pointed to this rolling stock that is practically spent during the year, here's the data, it seems to me a million, here, a million, three hundred and something to maintain. The same in 2016, and we are considering the report in early 2018, when it was, 64 new vehicles. How much for maintenance and in this category of specialized vehicles, and then we wonder if our law is controversial. It is or it isn't, but it's a disputed Council of Ministers who somehow let the agencies say that it's a specialized vehicle, let's say it's a director, if there's four wolves, a quad, and it's called specialized, or I don't already know who. The director and here, and again in other institutions, gives his consent, he prescribes that it will be the chief of staff for a 24-hour drive. That's our pain. And we have very, very high items here – for fuel, here, here, so come on, they've got a lot of official ones, but 113 vehicles don't have a border police mark, I think it's a figure, and it's assigned by order of directors to counselors, cabinet chiefs or I don't already know who. So, in our nation, we would say that the Kunto and the panto are available for 24 hours, if that's the director, on a 24-hour vehicle for the most private needs. I mean, there's no responsibility, there's audit reports from year to year, not to say that the question is skipped here, and we're going to discuss, here, independent bodies, among other things. And the problem of suspensions, payments, who's responsible when the state funds pay compensation to someone who's, is mobbing, isn't, if they get in court, and so much of that stuff. [[the speaker is warned on time]] This Svilaj, we now have the current, who's responsible, and it must have been in some audit reports that needed this or what someone did. That's how we're left with the problem. I support this proposal to specifically discuss these individual reports, and the question remains of our activity in this direction, that some things, especially in terms of fostering responsibility, support, are sought out by responsible people for the state they are. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22627	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22628	I thank the chairman. I warmly welcome all of you present in this hall. Well, here, I'm going to say that to me as a representative, as a member of the Committee on Finance and Budget, and even as chairman of this Committee, I'm really glad today that this item on the agenda, or this item on the agenda, is getting, I'd say, one well-deserved attention, and we've all found a little more attention and a little more attention than in the previous years. I would say that perhaps, in some ways, the concept of considering the audit reports offered to us this year by the Office for Audit, first the Committee, then the House, and then today, I would say, for the first time, we have the agenda point, which is the Annual Audit Report on the main findings and recommendations for 2016. Here, in some ways, we thank the Audit Office because it thus appreciated both time and opportunities, both time and each other, and enabled us to consider and see important things in the audit reports in a easier way. Within these main findings and recommendations in that section that we are most interested in is the financial revision they are sublimed in 24 points or subpoints, 24 major recommendations. Then we, as the Committee, as we have been in our previous years, but this time along with this item of the agenda, joined the Assembly's summary opinion. Within that Collection Opinion, please pay attention, there are 10 conclusions with one number of sub-conceives, so I'd say, there are almost 20 of them. They are due to the flow of time between the time when the commission worked and when this session, here, was held today, we were somewhat late. Some of these conclusions with their deadlines are somewhat inactive now. But they are not inaccurate and in the context of how more quality, more concrete and more effective consider audit reports, so special focus on those reports that are, which we have with the reserve. This is exactly where we are warning about these conclusions of the Commission, because the Committee has also put particular focus and in its conclusions on these 10 institutions, on these 10 audit reports. So to get out of this story when and how and in what way, individually or not individually, we will consider these other reports I will only read to you, very briefly, point 6.1 or subpoint 6.1 of these conclusions, where it says – 10 separate programmes of the actions referred to in the previous point 6 need to be published publicly by the end of February 2018 on the websites of each of these 10 institutions separately, and the reviews of these programmes within the same deadline to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So, if we adopt these conclusions, and I call on you to adopt them, and when and when we get these 10 separate programs, we are at our disposal how and how we relate to the... program, and if we get them and if we don't get them. Are we going to decide that through the Committee of the Programmes, whether the Committee or all of us will decide whether to consider these 10 at a separate session through separate points, so to speak, key programmes, they refer to those 10 institutions that are focused, which were the worst of 74 institutions and have an opinion with a reserve for this or for that reason. And then perhaps such a debate, based on these programmes, even if we are too late, is already deep in 2018, perhaps those institutions already removed some of these things in 2017, but taught by experience so far we know that they are not completely, makes sense and purpose. And it will be effective to perhaps in this way that the Parliamentary Assembly is considering separate individual worse audit reports, regardless of what they are from 2016, and to warn about the shortcomings and, in some way, to help the audit reports, discussions on both the Commission and the House on these reports, have a certain effect, as they do, as we all agreed here that the Office for Auditing through the past year has done this job which is financial discipline 23, however, I would say, raised to a significantly higher level in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina compared to the time 10, 12 or 15 years ago. And so, after we consider this point, here I see that there are no more reported, it seems to me that It's completely opportunized to put all the other points in the revision together into one, because we're inside this point, I'd say, I'd say, say what we have to say. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22629	Thank you very much. Anyway, here, thank you for these clarifications that I actually wanted to make after that, but in no way did I want to hurt any MPs to discuss. I'll repeat again we've only been on one single wheel and that's the Annual Report. Now I'm concluding a debate on that agenda point. Before we move to item 14. I propose a pooling of discussions on points 14 to 86 of the agenda, including point 86, since it is the reports of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the financial audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions for 2016. We are voting on a proposal to unite the debate on points 14 to 86.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22630	... I apologize,...the conclusion... will be the subject of a special session, so... with the reserve whatever they are, and that the report on these points to the other union, and that's okay. [[no microphone turned on]] If Parliament wants to deal with the essence of the audit, if we want to finish this in 5-10 minutes... So, I delivered the conclusion to the service and I'd like to make a statement about it. Whatever Parliament says, I won't be dramatic. So, I'm just asking you to... to make a statement on the conclusion, positively negative. If we come forward... there's a debate coming together about the remaining audits, if he gets a pass, if he doesn't get it, then we plead the way you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22631	Thank you. Your Honor, you haven't even listed here, we haven't even reached point 14. So we're now proposing that a joint debate be held first on points 14 to 86, then we can give your proposal a conclusion, you're not stating anything. So I'm asking you to give us a heads-up on this proposal right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22632	... So, I propose that a special debate be held on the audit reports where the Office for Audit has made recommendations, remarks and recommendations, and that negative reports be discussed at a special session. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22633	We don't have negative opinions. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22634	Okay, they're gone, possibly negative, we have recommendations. So you know exactly what the reports are. So, that you, to delay the debate on them and to hold the debate at a special session. These others can unite today. I think we understand that unless it's some gymnastics I wouldn't complain about participating in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22635	Please, we'll give your proposal a conclusion, but here, he wants to correct it because we can't give it this way, since it doesn't fit, uh, the state in which the audit institutions delivered it, so... A colleague, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22636	Well, you see, so I see here a good will to end this agenda as Parliament should. And I think it's okay for special attention to be given to reports that, which have an opinion with a reserve with a highlighted subject, that's what's called in this audit. It was called in Mr Špirić's proposal a negative report. So it's these...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22637	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22638	So, please, so these 10 institutions. I think it's okay. We need to send a message to all the institutions that have, and here I am using that term now, negative opinion, so this opinion with a reserve with an emphasis on finance, in the review, of the compliance, as it is written there in this report, that they know that it will be the subject of a special debate at Parliament's session. And that's one of the effects we're having. And I suggest, therefore, that you correct your proposal for a conclusion, not as it stands here with a negative opinion, but these 10 institutions that have the opinion of the Reserve Audit Office, as it is stated, 10 of these institutions to take them off the agenda, to discuss them as a special point at one of the next sessions, perhaps the first one, this one, the sessions, and that the other points that remain united and conduct a single debate on them. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22639	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Isaković, not respecting the established agenda. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22640	I'm sorry, I couldn't answer differently because I've already had two replicas, I just wanted a little clarification. This is exactly what I suggested in my discussion, and I said that what's positive is going on, today we're discussing, and these 10 that have a negative opinion, that's exactly what 25 conclusions and we've made. Therefore, I think that we are on the same line and that this should deserve the attention of this Parliament, that these 10 institutions are being debated entirely...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22641	Just so you know we didn't get anything written, your proposal conclusions... points.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22642	Here, if you can, we can make a statement like this. In the course of the discussion will be...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22643	It's not a problem. Can we, then, make a statement, because right now, we don't have any corrections, should we wait for the proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22644	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22645	There's a microphone, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22646	So, I propose that a special debate be held on 10 audit reports where the Office for Audits delivered an opinion with the reserve. Dot. So, uh... _________(?) With a distraction. With a distraction, that's what it says, okay, that's what the report says.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22648	With a prominent object.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22649	So, I suggest that, just a little people, listen, you're nervous, I don't see any reason to be nervous, you can vote whatever you want, so I suggest that there be a special debate on the 10 audit reports where the audit office has delivered an opinion with a reserve and a distraction, and the rest of us unite. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22650	Please just to be clear, we are at agenda points today, are you asking to be held at a special session or today to conduct a special debate, yes...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22651	No, no, no, I suggest we have a special debate at the next session. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22652	At the next session?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22653	Yeah, special.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22654	Please make a statement, we have representative Salko Sokolović, not keeping the established agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22655	Here, in the context...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22656	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22657	Just a little bit, please, in the context of what we're talking about right now. If we're going especially with the presence of these directors of institutions, then we can do it separately, and if they won't be present, we can do it today, only in a second step. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] If they, too, will be present, I think here is what I suggest to Mr Špirić that he, the one, must be the representatives of the institutions when we talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22659	Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22660	I just want to warn you of something technical, I really don't mind the suggestion, the next session is today, what are we going to change? [[Common discussion]] It's either a special session or the 57th.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22662	That's why I asked. Please, after all we've heard, give us a written one, here I'm giving you a five-minute break, write a written proposal to make it clear and so we know exactly when to be and with what presence, so that we know exactly what we're saying. Here's a five-minute break, please don't part ways. 27 Please note, after a brief break, we have received some suggestions of the conclusions that we had just discussed, in fact they are, in a way, similar, so I will, after which the College has held consultations, so listen carefully. We propose that a discussion be held at a special 57th session, meaning, not today, but at the next 57th session, a debate on audit reports in which the Office for Audits held an opinion with the reserve with a distraction. The meeting shall also ensure the presence of authorised representatives of the invited institutions. I suggest we make a statement on this proposal for a conclusion, and bring the rest of the points together in one debate. Please let us be clear about this proposal. Of the 38 present – 37 for, no problem, 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we adopted a proposal for a conclusion in order to discuss audit reports at the 57th session where the opinion with the reserve is with a distraction. In particular, at the meeting, ensure the presence of authorised representatives of the invited institutions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22667	We've spoken before, but here's a few sentences to say. So, the fact is that only 23 institutions received a positive opinion, mostly institutions that have smaller budgets, fewer employees, probably fewer public procurements and less, so they showed, therefore, that kind of business, because it is a positive opinion on both financial reports and coherence. So their financial statements are good, and they're acting according to the law, that's only 23 institutions or, I said, 3.66% of the total budget implementation. That part is constantly, we are getting shorter and part of the institutions from that first best part is moving into the second part, and the second is a positive opinion with a distraction, I said it is 40 institutions. What is our situation with regard to financial reports and compliance? Only one institution has recommendations and comments on financial reports that is 0.11%). Now, look, we have 31 institutions to comply with the laws and other regulations, so they've got a positive opinion, and we have observations about the revision of compliance, and institutions that have objections to both financial reports and compliance, that's eight institutions or about 9%. When I looked at it first, I thought maybe this should be the ones with the reserve, the ones with the financial reports and the compliance, and everything else down here with the reserve should be negative. And then that relationship would start to change. Now that the institution hears she's got an opinion with the reserve, it's ideal, I'm not the worst. Only once did Bosnia and Herzegovina, its Audit Office, give one negative opinion. It was a break-in and I have to tell you that it's raised so much publicity, it's never been talked about the audit like it was. Why this is no longer happening, and why some, eclative examples of 29 that talk about bad business, financially primarily, don't deserve a negative opinion, it's a job that we're going to have to deal with, but the audit knows well that we've been talking about it for a long time. There are things we need to change in the Audit Act. And in the end, we don't mention anything about a whole sector, which is an impact review, we didn't even mention it today. The audit aims to review the impact that Parliament and the Council of Ministers are not considering it at all. It's an entire area that nobody shows up, and we love here most that we don't have stories on the subject, and at the same time forget it. Take a look at the office's website for reviewing what impact audits were there. So all of these things that we're talking about are interesting because they draw our attention to someone, especially these, those who have opinions, with a positive opinion with a distraction. Of those 31 institutions that have coherence, let's say, or these eight that have both the coherence and the financial reports, 21 have shortcomings in public procurement. Now, you see, the review has rated some of the institutions with a reserve due to public procurement, and here is a positive opinion with a distraction. Where is this materiality threshold when reviewing it determines that I have never been able to understand, why it is once a basis for one opinion, and next time a basis for another opinion. Perhaps we should, perhaps our mistake is that we do not have a commission that will only deal with audit reports and thus enable them to do this job much better and much more, a commission that would deal with this whole year and send a report to Parliament, that is, towards both homes, and I think that these things would be much better. There's plenty of room to improve, for years I've been talking, regardless of never, when the audit reports are in question, I've never seen whether or not we were in power or not, it's something that's a fact that stands and can't be escaped from it no matter who the government is. That's what the review does and makes this great book that helps us prepare easily. It all makes us really step up. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It's up to us if we're gonna make it all the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22668	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on these agenda points. Moving to point 87, Ad. 87. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Electronic business in BiH institutions – establishment and application" – applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-2541/17, of 26.10.2017. The responsible Committee for Finance and Budgets delivered on 30.11.2017. Opinion on the report. The Commission unanimously accepted the report and adopted the conclusion and proposed its adoption to the House. The conclusion is: – The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers of BiH to report within 6 months the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the planned and undertaken activities to implement the Report's recommendations on the implementation of the impact review on the subject – "Electronic Business in BiH Institutions" and to get to know the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions about the activities undertaken. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 30 We move to point 88, Ad. 88. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: “The management of property and accommodation costs in the diplomatic and consular offices of BiH” – applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-2542/17, of 26.10.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22673	This is a correct strategy, but I am asked by it, and I want to take advantage of this item of the agenda, the Coordination Committee of Srbin from Mostar, to refer to you today this question, the honourable minister, and their question is, within the framework of the Regional Housing Programme for Care, which restores a number of return homes throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in the first phase of the project, 37 Serb households have been selected and selected in Mostar, however, for more than a year and a half, there has been no realisation of this project, and I have been asked by the Serb Coordination Association in Mostar to ask you this question and to tell us that 31 you are not yet realising these projects and when can expect their implementation? If you can, if you don't, you can answer me in writing next time, if you don't have information right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22674	Here's the minister I see signaling she'll answer next time. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate on this agenda point. So we're going to point 90, Ad. 90. Report on the management of refugees and foreigners under subsidiary protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 – applicant: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02,03-37-2187/17, dated 08.09.2017. The House College has appointed a Joint Commission for Human Rights to consider the Report. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on 06.12.2017. The report was adopted and delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 91, Ad. 91. Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2015, material of the Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01.02-16-1-2566/17, of 30.10.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22678	Thank you very much. As far as this report is concerned, we've had many initiatives in the past, and we've asked for one such broad information, and I'm saying that, in my opinion, this material is well done, but not only would this remain one set of information that we've received from various institutions, so in one report we have here in Parliament, I suggest that, with the acceptance of one such information, we accept two conclusions. The first is to call on the Representative House to oblige the Council of Ministers to comply with some earlier recommendations, and we have here a broader conference organised by the Council of Europe concerning freedom of the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where we have people dealing with these issues at the widest European level, so experts from these areas, which are one of the key things and instructions that it is necessary to pass a law on ownership of the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the second is the law on online media, given the time in which we live and how important it is to have that area arranged. And the special aspect of online media is the law on banning the use of hate speech in the media, especially in the portals. With that in mind, here, I invite you, I have these two conclusions written, I'm going to suggest we adopt them on this agenda point. And another thing that is particularly worrying, those who have read this report can see that Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2004 of the 160 countries that were then treated according to the Media Freedom Index, which every year has been continuously done by Reporters Without Borders, then Bosnia and Herzegovina of 167 countries was 21. So it can be said at the very top of this area in the world. When it comes to the region we were champions, we were in the region the best in terms of freedom of the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in 2004 it seemed that way. In 2016, out of 180 countries we are 68. So no other country in the world has fallen so quickly on this Index as is the case with Bosnia and Herzegovina. And my proposal is for the Council of Ministers to produce information in which this kind of question will be treated and proposed to us this programme of measures to see what actually affected Bosnia and Herzegovina, what is happening in our political and public discourse that we fall so rapidly on a list of such a freedom of the media index and, in that sense, make a proposal for measures to go back to that positive zone that we used to be in. So something particularly bad is happening when it comes to the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, freedom of speech, attacks on the media, attacks on journalists, pressures on various types, political pressures on journalists. With that in mind, therefore, we have an obligation as a state to respond, to see and to accept these messages that are being sent to us and international institutions that are dealing with us, I would say, to the end independent of this problem, and in that sense one such negative trend, which is happening in recent years, that we take it seriously, that we take it seriously, and that on the basis of some of these messages sent by international institutions, we make our proposal measures to return to that positive zone where we should objectively be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22679	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22680	Since it's about a point that should plead and give us the real state of freedom of the media I won't discuss much, I'm just going to say that within the existing system, we have the existing legal framework that we have. We can't do this in what they say, the atmosphere of the law or have anything better. In fact, the fact is that our media, except for a few of the honorable who claim to be independent, independent or already not know how to act, but they are very hard to survive, because this survival is about potential sponsors, and these potential sponsors, the vast majority are now once again bound to politics, so that these media freedoms flossules in Bosnia and Herzegovina are overstretched, i.e. they glow like those formerly owners of wooden similars used by children in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The media is tied to political parties, the media is undivided, the one who says they are not, he obviously wants to cheat, lie or deceive himself, the media is tied to the financials that are now involved in politics, so those who want to and would like to act independently, independently or freely, are completely within this material framework limited. Those who deal with the media, or those who are supposed to be researchers, and are serious about it, journalists, are tied to those who give them the opportunity to live. If they're not working on a dictatorship, then he's a journalist who can't live on his work. So I should, and I agree with Šepić, this report makes a little different, a little different, so that we get a real picture of what freedom of the media is in this country and whether it even has one. In Croatia, there is an entire rebellion because they fell three places, and we all remain silent because what was independent, independent, is shut down because it cannot be financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22681	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22682	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We here have the first findings in the report itself, I would say, dramatically if we look at what they refer to and how some of them describe the state of freedom of speech, i.e. the state of media freedom in Bosnia and Herzegovina. With regard to this Parliament, I would say, a different answer is expected from what we are giving today, or which is proposed here to be given today at Parliament. What's the different answer? A different answer is more concrete solutions, which we will not offer today. The Commission's report, our competent Commission, has two parts, one that says unanimously, means, adopts the Report and the other which says that within 45 days, a thematic session will be held with these issues, i.e. I assume all the findings mentioned here. If this thematic session is to be organised, and I would really like it to be organised, then the question is, does it make sense to adopt this report as it is today? And that is why I think that colleagues who have expressed one reserve according to the results of what we are going to do today are right and that the simple debate on this report should continue when the thematic session is held and at this thematic session this report should be some sort of introductory material. I am talking about the Commission's thematic session to which MPs will be invited, and I assume that then the results of that thematic session will be the subject of debate at Parliament. That way I think we'd come up with some concrete proposals that could give some results that this situation looks different than it is today. I fear that if this report is as it is now, without some concrete solutions and proposals by the Commission itself, which would support this Parliament will not lead to what was the motif of the promoter to put this issue on the agenda. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22683	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22684	Thank you. The basis of every society's democracy and every state is precisely free of speech and freedom of the independent and professional action of the media in that society and that state. It is my opinion that we must have a completely different treatment of this extremely important topic. I think it's a little inappropriate that this is our 92nd agenda today. I therefore propose that we do not plead today at the House of Representatives session and I would go further and I propose that we hold a special session today, not only of the Commission, but of a special thematic session of the BiH Parliamentary House with this topic. So we have this material, until that session we could get additional clarifications from the BiH Council of Ministers, the government of both Bosnian-Herzegovina entities so that we really have one complete discussion material. Why, among other things, do I suggest we organise this special thematic session? The reason for this, among other things, lies in the fact that, as far as we can see in the calendar of activities foreseen for the full February and March of the month, only one session in February and one House of Representatives is scheduled in March. So,. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] They got two, right? Okay, here's one in February, two in March, which is certainly no problem for us to organise a special session dedicated to media freedoms. Why should I do that? In the European Commission's report, Šepić and other MPs also spoke of it, and it is very clear that a worrying trend, a trend of political and financial pressure on the media, continues. Such findings by the European Commission deserve the deepest respect and a very serious debate on them, they are certainly not listed by chance. When you also read this report, you see that there have been dozens of death threats to journalists, various kinds of pressures, physical attacks, etc. Even physical attacks on media in certain parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina have not been shown by authorities in any way that can indirectly draw conclusions to encourage such activities. This must be stopped immediately in the interest of the protection of the rule of law and democracy in this country. I therefore reiterate and plead once again on this subject with these materials, with further clarifications from state and entity governments, that we should hold a special session of the state parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22686	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22687	Thank you, Madam Chairman. 35 So I'll try to be as short as possible. With a large part of Mr. Novaković's exposure, so you can also imagine with part of Mr. Bećirović's exposure, I agree, uh, and I support that. Why? Because we have material in front of us that I can't say is bad, but what we're talking about here is not the position of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry, for example. So, it did not, from these materials that it gave us through this report, make its own view of it all, that is, our attitude that we should build. That is why it may be necessary to give this or that additional debate about this, because it accepts this as the Report that it is, in fact, reflecting the opinion of some institutions, associations, foundations, the Council of Europe, the European Commission, so there is no position on this, there is no what the Minister thinks about what the Council of Ministers thinks, which we will ultimately build as our own position. Because I know you won't blame me, for example. Let's just say in one part of this report when it is said that it was mandatory to collect the opinions of our ministries, so the Ministry of Security, which, for example, says on page 14 that minority nations in Bosnia and Herzegovina are guaranteed media content on their public television service at least once a week. So, you know there's been a demand for the Croatian people for the channel for years, and I know you won't mind me saying that here, but there's no mention of it as a question, as a problem, as a request. Look, it's something that's much more important than the many facts mentioned here, if you use the reports of some you put here in this report. So, I'm on the trail of this, I don't know how we're going to formulate the conclusion, let's say Mr. Novaković, so here's what Mr. Bećirović joined, to make some special debate about this, to really be material, I can't say that he's bad, that's what the people who did it gave, presented it, you installed it, put it before the Council of Ministers, and to bring some kind of attitude about freedom of speech, that is, to see what that is. Now, on the committee, if I don't know any other way, here's where my colleagues are going to suggest the conclusion they're... speaking.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22688	Thank you. Representative Borislav Bojić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22689	I welcome the Honorable Presidency, ministers and distinguished guests. I will try to say a few things in which it is special, with particular emphasis on the debate on the Joint Commission, and on this subject which should certainly deserve special attention from parliamentarians. In this regard, let me remind you that on 9 March, a thematic session on freedom of expression and freedom of the media is already scheduled in this building, at 10 o'clock in Blue Hall. Namely, I am taking the opportunity to inform you that the successor of Dunja Mijatović Harlem Desir is an OSCE representative of the freedom of the media who announced his participation in this conference, not only him, but I believe that, among other things, the BH Journalists Association, the Director-General of the Communications Regulatory Agency, the spokesperson of the OSCE Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who is speaking and working on media issues, etc., then many others who have already shown interest in participating in this conference. Niko one is slowing down, and it is really necessary for MPs to participate in these kinds of thematic discussions, and it is our responsibility not to participate in these thematic sessions. Usually, the Joint Committee schedules a session and a few MPs arrive, and I must tell you that representatives of the NGO, international organisations and all others are zealously responding to this kind of call. So if only parliamentarians are going to talk on the subject of freedom of the media I don't think that's enough, it's also worth hearing about those who deal directly with these affairs, and that's exactly what 36 people face every day with problems in terms of media freedom, attack on journalists and anything else about this issue. So I am taking the opportunity to call on, of course, the representatives of the executive authority and all of you MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly to respond to this thematic session, not wanting at all to demean the question that this Parliament has a special session, but it would be good to hear everyone else who is not in this House, is it that we will mainly mark all our discussions with a political approach depending on which political parties we come from? I believe that there are still those who have, above all, the courage to speak freely about everything when, in order to deal with the NGO sector and when it comes to international organisations that are monitoring events in the area of freedom of the media and everything that is happening in this area. So here I took the opportunity to say that this report is good in its content, that I didn't hear any comments on the report itself, but on the need for further discussions to be opened. If we open them, not to be closed in this discussion room, but to have this discussion open to everyone else who is interested in saying on this subject, and they have something to say to both the press and the professional public and all the ones I mentioned at the beginning. Therefore, depending on what parliamentarians are going to define, I believe that a far greater response will be to debate with those who have serious problems when it comes to the functioning of any electronic or printed media. You'll get a chance to hear what they say about these issues, journalists and those who follow what's happening next to us in public, and it's about the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22690	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 93, Ad. 93. Information on foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in BiH – FIPA, issue: 01,02-22-2546/17, of 26.10.2017. The College of the House of Representatives has designated information by the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development. The Commission submitted its opinion on 20.12.2017. The commission accepted the information, referred to further procedures, and adopted the conclusions: 1. The House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to allocate funds to the BiH Foreign Investment Promotion Agency for the implementation of the "Invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina" campaign. 2. The House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to try to secure funds to encourage foreign investors. I'm opening a debate. Representative Đorđo Krčmar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22692	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. 37 The opinion of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development has presented the entire chronology of the Joint Commission's conclusion adopted at the 11th session in March of this year, up to the delivery of information on the situation in the area of foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina in parliamentary procedure. At its 15th session, held on 20.12.2017, in the presence of the Director of the Foreign Investment Promotion Agency, Mr. Milinić, discussed the above information. In this explanation on behalf of the Joint Commission, I can say that at the joint session, we had a very good debate, because the topic of life is both for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for its citizens, because we all understand what impact on the overall life in Bosnia and Herzegovina has on foreign direct investments, i.e. investment. Unfortunately, at least for the first time in this term, we have the opportunity to discuss this issue and this important topic. All members of the Joint Commission agreed that the Agency has prepared one quality information on this issue and deserves a debate at a session of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. Thus, we could learn from the information movements in the areas of foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that these developments in recent years are positive, but still not enough for a stronger momentum in the progress of the economy in our country. We have learned through a list of top 15 countries that have invested in Bosnia and Herzegovina so far that Austria is first with direct investments of 2.5 billion KM. In second place is neighbouring Croatia with 2,200,000, Serbia third with 2,100,000 KM. The issues and problems that have been apostrophe in this Information deserve the attention of all of us as legislators at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the session of the Joint Commission, we used the discussion and unanimously adopted two conclusions, which you have within the meaning of the Opinion, and we propose to the House of Representatives to adopt them. Given that the House of Representatives is a much wider body than the Commission, perhaps in today's debate we come to a common conclusion, conclusions that would help to improve the situation in the areas of foreign direct investment, because without a major momentum in this area, the desired progress in the development of the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be expected, and thus to increase the number of new jobs, which would certainly lead to the prevention of the outflow of young labour in other Bosnia and Herzegovina countries. I reiterate and suggest that, to Parliament, these two conclusions should be adopted, and... in order and in an explanation of how it is stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22693	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22694	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. I would like to introduce Mr Krčmar, since this is about the Commission's proposals for the Commission's presidency, and in what you have now had as a topic of discussion, of meeting us who are not part of this Commission, I would really ask you, you have taken on the role of Director or Director here more, I do not know exactly who is at the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and have discussed the essence of that report, which I will later discuss in the debate, but I would ask you as chairman of the Commission to explain to me why you have proposed these two conclusions. I am not from what we have, or two different texts that you have on the Commission and which we currently have here on the agenda, on the basis of which you are giving these conclusions to explain to us, so that we can get to know each other better and determine whether to support your conclusions or not. 38 On the other hand, I also ask you, because you say after a broader debate on your Commission, did you also touch on the subject that was earlier, as regards the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, where the Office for the Foreign Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina also says there is a lack of significant activities in establishing an effective system of financial management and control and shortcomings and weaknesses in the public procurement process. So, you, as chairman, need to tell us what it is, why you and what you're based on, these two conclusions, and in the segment of it, you're touching yourself that what you're proposing is this one financial injection to lead to significant employment or, I don't know, growth and you're saying that this is a positive trend in foreign investment. The diagram that was delivered to us in this report shows an amplitude of fall. So there's no positive effects, top 15 countries this is a copy-paisy for years of the same content, the same text and I'd be begging for services. to inform me, or inform me whether this is the 2016 or 2017 FIPA Report, and you are the chairman to inform me whether any of the authorised representatives are sitting in this room. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22695	Thank you. Representative Đorđo Krčmar, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22696	Dear colleagues here is a representative, Mr Milinić, FIPA, who will probably ask for a word to speak, so you will hear from him when it comes to, far beyond, this area. And as for youth employment and departure, if you listened well to what I said briefly in a summary context, it was that Bosnia and Herzegovina needed far more investment than previously. Thus, the arrival of a larger one means, investment, more funding, investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina would certainly be likely to take place, employment and a greater number of workers and the halting of labour drains from Bosnia and Herzegovina. These conclusions were proposed by the Commission, and here I would ask Mr Milinić himself, so that he should contact, which has far more information that he would, which would bring to this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22697	Thank you. Since we have opened perhaps an unnecessary correction of the wrong allegations, they were not corrections of the wrong allegations but of some enquiries, and we have a request from Director Gordan Milinić to report, so at this point we will give the first word to the director to address us, so we will continue our discussions and discussions, perhaps that will help in all of this. Here you go, Director.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22698	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers. That's right, I want to give further clarifications because indeed this information has lost its momentum. We did the Information in September of last year, the Agency had its internal data on a major increase in foreign investment, but we officially only handle data from the Central Bank of BiH. In this Information you only have data for the first three months of last year and there is an increase of 39 28.7% compared to the first three months of 2016. Furthermore, we got the data very quickly, we already had it but we didn't put it in these materials, from the Central Bank we got the data six months 2017 compared to six months 2016. The increase is 68%, it's an enormous increase in foreign investment. Then we get data for nine months processed by the Central Bank, nine months 2017 compared to nine months 2016 the increase is 60% and we have in nine months last year - 2017, 630.8 million foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina This is an increase that has not yet been recorded since the economic crisis of 2008. So nine months in 2017 is far the strongest in the last seven, eight years, ten years even, and the increase by nine months is 60%. This nine-month increase from the five-year average, I'm only talking nine months from the five-year average is 26.5%. So in 2017, it's completely different from all the years we've had in foreign investment. FIPA does not normally take those results, it is the result of the work of all of us who are working to improve foreign investment. First of all, we had excellent co-operation with the Foreign Ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and also with the Foreign Chamber and all chambers, and I must especially point out that we have managed to activate economic diplomacy. In 2016, no embassy organized any events in foreign investment, we succeeded in persistent arrangements, work, criticism, that last year seven, eight embassies organized investment forums, so last year we had investment forums in Great Britain, London, we had in Berlin, we had in Monaco, in Skopje, in Bucharest, in several other destinations across Europe, and the world. All that results. I don't want to brag about FIPA's work last year, but it's also recognized at the world level. At the meeting of the WAIPA Investment Organisation, we were elected to the Executive Board, i.e.... of these organizations. From Europe, only Bosnia and Herzegovina and Poland, two organisations, were elected during the period. We've even received new preliminary data from the Central Bank that in nine months it's already gone to 700 million, so we have 700 million in last year in those first nine months. We expect, we have our own internal data, but we expect official data from the Central Bank again for the whole 2017, we will have them somewhere in March. Our assessment, according to our data, is that foreign direct investment in 2017 will reach the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is 950 million. We figure we'll have between 800 and 950 million, that's our estimate in FIPA, and we'll see how the Central Bank handles it and what the Central Bank delivers to us. As far as these actions are concerned, I'd just say, "Invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina" we're not looking for any money for FIPA, we don't need that, we're asking the Council of Ministers to implement the "Invest in Bosnia and Information Shop" action. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I introduced our ministers to the FIPA director of Macedonia, who paid $1 million in 2013 to CNN for advertising and in 2014 had several billion in investments. We need to talk about the image of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the world, we need to be recognized and we need to tell foreign investors that there are no fears here, that their investments here are safe. I have already told you that in Italy, at the investment meetings of the Outreach campaign, which was organised by the World Bank, I was asked – are you free to walk in your cities? So we explained to them that it was more free to walk in Sarajevo, Mostar, Banja Luka than Berlin, Paris and Tokyo, or London, or Rome, because there is no terrorism in us. I explained to them that no one would shoot at them and that there would be no bombings, that no one would step on them with a car. We must tell the world, we must say that Bosnia and Herzegovina is open to foreign investments and that capital, their capital, is safe, is witnessed by investors now working in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 40 This second part that we talked about incentives, you all know that Serbia gives 7,000 euros for each new job, we are interested in both Bosnia and Herzegovina starting to give some incentives. The other day I was in the municipality of Stanari, who decided to give each new job 6,000 marks. The Municipality of Window said immediately when we led them an investor for the production of assembly houses they would give 500 marks for each new job. I think that at the state level, we should take some measures, in a way to stimulate investors, because everyone does, Croatia gives 3,000 euros per job, Macedonia gives 3,000 euros per job, Montenegro gives incentives in millions. The goal is to attract investment, you saw that Serbia is already at 2.5 billion euros, and that is the result of only giving 7,000 euros per job. Now, that's mostly what I wanted to explain to you, so there's a big difference with this report that you have in front of you, and so we don't discuss it the wrong way, these are the latest data we have. 2017 will surely be the most successful in the last ten years. When we count on what we signed in 2017, then it is one of the most successful in history, because we managed to sign the Termo power termoelektrana Kamengrad near sanski most, the concession holder is the company Lager Posuje, the investment is 1,020.000 marks and the realization is under way. We expect 200 million in Bosnia and Herzegovina from the investment already in March. So if we count and what was signed last year, then 2017 is really successful. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22699	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22700	Thank you very much. Here's what Mr. Director said, so I wonder how with all these arguments not going through, don't take this information to the House of Peoples, that's the first thing. Secondly, I have to say, I've had a fair amount of trouble, I've got a few papers, and I didn't know what to deal with, how to deal with, there's a document called - Information, which the Council of Ministers discussed on, somewhere in the tenth month and commissioned the Agency to deliver the information to us. I guess information to us that we suggest what to do next, and that's okay for us to get that information from time to time, that's an important piece of information. But some of it came to me in the post office of Mr. Director, who pointed out to the Parliamentary Assembly, but only to members of the House of Peoples' Colleges, and there is only one man who explains these great successes in the realization of this work so far. And then I started looking for these great successes, and then I realized that most of the data, which in that vast eight, nine-page report, is that these are data that the Agency is taking from the Central Bank. The central bank is often late with someone, for a reason with some data, so it's always that, there are different relationships between the Agency and the Central Bank. Now, it's unusual that the Central Bank says that this information that Mr. Director is 630 million marks, means 60% more compared to the previous, same period in 2016, does not say so. The agency says it's $260 million, and here I've copied it. Wait now, I stop, so is it possible that there's such a discrepancy between what we have in the report, or, here's what's written in, and what's written in the Central Bank's Information. Secondly, that's, so I'm talking about the official central bank portal.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22701	Please, sit down, sit down. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22702	So FIPA has a budget of 1.5 million marks, employs 28 employees, has nine board members, has regional offices in Banja Luka and Mostar. At the same time, the institution is not only working on direct foreign investment, as part of the Foreign Investment Department of the Foreign Trade and Foreign Investments Sector of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, we have a part that deals with this. With entity ministries, we also have a part that deals with foreign investment. What's out of the ordinary here? ... what I saw was that, for example, in the government of Republika Srpska, nine people work on all these jobs, here running..., processing legislation, proposing strategy, action plan, doing, and doing what they don't do, visiting 40 companies that have made a list of obstacles and solving them. And then I remembered and wondered, well, where is the list of obstacles, what is most interesting to us, where is the list of obstacles that are at stake for this country to have greater investments? And then looking further, I was trying to get information on what it really contains, what time it takes to register a company in entities, and what time is it to issue a building permit? And then I came up with some frat information, but it doesn't say anything here in this report, it doesn't have any information on this information. What does it all mean, after all, to bring the end? The contribution of such agencies everywhere in the world by foreign investment is 10 to 15%, many actors are working on foreign investment issues and cannot be attributed to fame, or here as it says in our intensive efforts we have succeeded, we have paved the way... In 2008 and the major global economic, financial crisis, we note such a significant increase. You don't have to brag until all the work is done. From this I think that Parliament can serve this information for nothing. And the information that needs to be helped, what the Commission is, it's just inconclusive because there's not one element on which to conclude this. I know it's good to have... a lot of money within the budget, but you should also know how these money is allocated and for what purpose. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22703	Thank you. Representative Borislav Bojić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22704	Since I have no intention of speaking on this subject, just to say, the question of foreign investment is certainly not just this agency, but the question of creating a general environment. And when it comes to this data from the Central Bank which, according to the colleagues, is late, and what we heard from the pay phone when it comes to the director of this Agency who says that this part of the data is not harmonised, it is certain that this information should be complemented by the content that the Director was talking about and as such may be primarily material for the Commission itself. I have no reason to have no confidence when it comes to our Commission in common, which I am sure has thoroughly discussed this issue and I am sure that it has far more facts and data than is seen from the presentation of a director that is not identical to what we now have in the Report, and there are reasons why there are certain kinds of differences. Therefore, my opinion would be that this information should be complemented by the relevant, accurate and precise facts that we will already, as the Director said, have in March and that such a kind of debate will certainly be continued in the Parliamentary Assembly itself, and, of course, in the competent Commission which, as far as I can see, did not bring this up by one member of the Commission, but by all the members of the Commission, I believe that they have considered this information better. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22705	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22706	...respected chairman. Well, here's what I'd like to tell you, it might be easier for me to discuss if the director hadn't put out, but with the trail of what I just got, I wish it hadn't been put on the table, this is an interview as far as I see the governor of the Central Bank, the interview and the Central Bank's report aren't the same, and that's why it could be a deviation from the data. He says here, this is a political assessment, so, apart from the growth of foreign reserves, increased collection of income from indirect taxes, increased exports, estimated to have been around 700 million direct foreign investments, according to the poll and employee growth. This is a political story, I'm interested in whether the Agency for Investment Support... can inform us, send information on how defacto investments are, and about investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, particularly portfolios of new investments. So, can we get our Agency's information that, of course, it can also be called to the Central Bank's sources, but that's why we have the Agency. And I would be inclined to ask us... to ask for one, since this is the time behind us, complete information, which is what my colleague Bojić was talking about, where we're going to get a report from the Agency based on which we can conduct the debate, not that we have a report, and that I get an interview with the governor of the Central Bank, which I, by the way, appreciate, I appreciate, but this means nothing to us. And he doesn't claim to be 700, it's about 700 and 601 million, that's 100 million difference. So, I beg you when Parliament is in... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Not by the way, but when it comes to Parliament...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22708	Don't throw away.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22709	It's essentially damaged, and it's not respected by the way. So, even if we were Parliament, then the College and all of us would hold on to ourselves, and when we hold on to ourselves then we also hold on to the state we represent. So this Parliament, remember once when I recited a poem I got, and then you objected to me that I was rude, I'm rude to get a rude poem in the materials, and this is a rude reading. [[Speaker is warned and time]] Thank you very much, and I'm not going to make a statement about this at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22710	Thank you. Representative Mirad Isaković, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22711	Thank you very much. 43 This would be the correction of Mr Špirić and the addition of Mr Špirić. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22712	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22713	I'm talking to the Director – Director I'm an investor and you presented your report like this I would never give stamps to this country, I would never give stamps to believe me. In this report that we have here you have your report where it says – 2016 was so much, is it now, and for 2017, is this report talking about 2017 or 2016? Here, you can't even know, here's who doesn't know how to read the material for the first time, see if that's how it is. I'm sorry, this is the material we've been commenting on here, I've never seen, I haven't seen this material in Parliament in three years. And to be honest, the SBB won't accept this kind of material, and I don't think this is entirely serious. This looks like a trade, you know, a lot of traffic and a little profit, we talk a lot about foreign investment. Where are your investments from the European Union to separate them, to tell me, in this country it will not be good until the European Union brings investments here and says that we recognise this country. The state is safe to invest when they come from Europe's investment, so then we can go with, from other Asian countries, or either, America or anyone else. There are no domestic investments to compare for the previous period and this period. And I'm sorry, I don't think there's any mention of any other things that are very important here. What's it important to invest here? Of political stability, the banking sector and all other things that are very, very important here are not even mentioned. Thank you very much. Here, I'm so, it's not a discussion, it's just a replica, and I'm going to the discussion, there's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22714	Thank you. Representative Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22715	I had no intention, but I have the impression that FIPA's director is too thrilled, this has nothing to do with economic data, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and his impression of it is a completely personal matter in relation to the reality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have the data, I apologize for using it here, Central Bank of BiH 2014. – 415m euros are foreign direct investments.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22716	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22717	Well, normally...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22718	Please don't throw the director out of place. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22719	For 2008. – 684, I won't go in 2007, so this one, it's important to promote the investment climate in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not the only thing Agneci completely agree with, many other factors are very important, but I have to tell you that when you have no results, and it is 2015 and 2016 worse than 2017, then you can manipulate statistics. The key issue of creating investment ambience is not only through these investment conferences, it is important that the embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina organise these conferences, I must immediately tell you that I am confident from a very small number of these conferences that you were at outside, what we had from Macedonia, what direct foreign investments, look at the first five direct foreign investors in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the last ten years then you will see the total investment. So, I'd like you to reduce your experience and achieve greater effects on the account of what's in accordance with your law. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22720	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22721	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I would, in a way, supplement Mr. Bojić, therefore I would not say correcting the incorrect assumption, I can't argue from where he has the information, I have information from the Committee that they didn't have complete information when they discussed this information and, let's say they had no information that the conclusions of the two who were adopted at the Committee were already on the Council of Ministers and that the Council of Ministers rejected them, some similar two conclusions. So at least that information from the parts of the people I'm communicating with and they told me that they didn't have it as information and that it was based on the Commission itself and that people couldn't just talk about it properly, so that's about it. And when, I would add Mrs. Majkić, when she spoke about the number of employees and what she did to FIPA, I'm sure it would probably be better, because the Croatian people are known as the entrepreneurial people, but there is ethnically cleansed, so that is also a very serious problem to insist on, but not on this occasion but on someone else's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22722	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22723	I really must, the Council of Ministers has already discussed this information on the national structure of FIPA employees,...not your arguments. The esteemed counterpart of the national structure is according to the '91 census, which is a legal obligation, and there is employed 20% of Hrvat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22724	45 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22725	Thank you. Representative Borislav Bojić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22726	Well, you see, dear colleague, I've been reading the Commission's report, and I don't think it would have been so superficial and impromptu, I respect the MPs who are considering these issues, I wouldn't quite dare say that they've unseriously approached this job. I'm just on the basis of what I read, I'm based on what I read, I wasn't involved in the work of this commission, but what I heard from this pay phone and what I heard in the debate, among other things some of my colleagues said the Central Bank reports are coming slower, which is also true, which is also true. So, if we want to have one complete piece of information in which we're going to have the information of the Central Bank and the competent agency, we can certainly have it only after March of the month and it's going to be current, and it's not going to be related to some period that's long behind us. So I think that might be the most rational approach when it comes to this information itself, which should certainly be complemented by all the new facts that have been heard here from this pay phone. After all, we can take a stenogram of what the director was saying, so we'll compare it when later the information comes that will be confirmed or not confirmed by the Central Bank. I consider the director serious, if he spoke for this speaker as he spoke, we'll see what the results will be.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22727	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22728	Mr. Bojić, so I didn't say that they were unserious but that after the session they said they had no information, let's say these two conclusions that were offered in a similar form to the Council of Ministers, and then they came to the Committee and were adopted on the Committee, as you said, unanimously. That's right, that's what I read, but from the colleagues I'm communicating with, who are participating in the work, I got the information, so they didn't know about those facts, that it wasn't the director who presented it to them. And this, I don't know what report Mrs. Pandurević was referring to when she said the filling was good. I mean... cleaned up, standing by.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22729	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22730	The only reason this material has ever come to these parliamentary benches is to vote these conclusions, not each other, because it is not, they have no obligation to send it to Parliament, but to send it to the Council of Ministers. Since it didn't get a leak, there was no permissive power at the Council of Ministers, let's go through the commission and we'll deal with the problem then. This will be a great experience for the director to keep much more in mind in the future when he makes such information, not just for us, but for the 46 and the Council of Ministers, and to be aware that the reward you have received to sit in such an important place is not just a reward and a major hit, it is something he commits.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22731	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22732	Well, I answered for the debate a long time ago, and here's a long time ago, they took these replicas. But what I'm really saying is, there isn't, perhaps, some better subject to show credibility to us as states than it is, let's say, this story of direct foreign investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. One thing we write about ourselves is what we say about ourselves, what our Council of Ministers, our Prime Minister of Government will come out and say that we are making progress in all possible ways, as we call it, the parameters, when he evaluates himself and when he writes it, and the other is actually how those who should invest money in this country here are supposed to see us. The simplest thing, therefore, is that what we have here in front of us, here stands the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which made one, uh,... and said that from 01.01.2009 to 31.12.2016 in Bosnia and Herzegovina that direct foreign investment was 2,700,000 marks. The comparisons for Montenegro are, say, six times smaller than Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a billion euros in one year. What am I telling you? So in eight years, we have about a little bit more than one Montenegro, which is six times smaller than us, is in one year. So I'm saying how much this subject is, and I understand the discussion of the director who showed it anyway, and through this activity and through work, that he wants something different to set up, to try something different to do. So, what is a key fact -- it will not be investment in a country where the main people, therefore, are commenting to counterpart Majkić, who says that this is not just not a reward but that something else should be done, cannot publicly call on the country's main leaders to disobey the law in which they represent the most significant institutions. It can't happen that in a country where we expect someone to bring in capital that one of the most important leaders says it's good for someone who's his wife, a close relative, just because he's got good connections, to be the director. So it can't happen in a country where the country's main leader says -- it's important to choose that and that commissioner, he has my phone number. Well, we're laughing at the whole planet. And we're talking about how someone in this country is going to make some investments. You have the main political leaders who instead of saying that this is a legal state, that this is the state in which we want that order, the state of the institutions, the state in which the law rules, not individuals. The main people come out publicly boasting, publicly saying that it's important for someone to have a private phone number, that they'll be able to solve everything. Do you think someone, as they call it, is crazy, that someone from some, that someone who has capital in such a country, is going to bring capital to such leaders. So that's why I'm saying that this isn't just about FIPA, this isn't about just some institution, this is about our political system where political leaders think they own this country and where they do everything they can to keep the European path from happening, not to make any progress and not to have reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because that's what they're sending us through these statements. And because of this, when you have such a political system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is normal for people to leave this country and it is normal that no investment comes in this country. So that's why mine is in this sense, as I would say, comment and attitude. Here, fill out this information, in this information you have, half the things you've mentioned here, you don't have here. Then you have overlapping views of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and, let's say, the Central Bank, and what you directors were saying here. I'm in favour of opening the debate, but we need to open the debate in a way that we can honestly tell what the problem is. So, honestly, the key problem is that 47 main people in this country, who have the most power, have the most influence, they don't want the rule of law, they don't want transparency, they don't want the rule of law, they don't want the rule of law. And so, at least sometimes they did that, and they talked less about it, now they go out for a pay phone and invite people and motivate people to vote for someone just because someone has the phone number of the party leader or president. Well, of course, that's why we're in a situation like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22733	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22734	I thank the chairman. What my colleague Majkić had in her debate, I sign and I won't repeat myself, I will use this debate for one proposal, because I don't know how we're going to get out of this situation, especially when we read and now we've been listening to the Honorable Director, that's two different information, and she, the third letter that, the second letter we've received, is the third information. Even after your presentation, it is not clear to me – are we now in 2018 only one quarter from 2017 and that this is the information, and all this later that came to us in the form of one letter is not the subject of what we are adopting today. So I think that we as the House of Representatives may need to agree on my proposal, or if someone has anything else to add, that we postpone, the delay on this point until the next session in February, to get a statement on this point, to get full information that will contain everything this information should contain on the subject of information from foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That information should contain, of course, the year we are talking about, if this is 2017, then information for 2017 with the particulars and information provided. Also when I listened to the Honorable Mr. Director at one point, I thought I was listening to the Prime Minister of the Federation of BiH, Mr. Novalić, so here everything is great, great, we're on the rise as Mr. Novalić says that all cantons have increased employment, so people are leaving it's a mantra, I don't even know who's doing it anymore. You also said that there should be no fear here and that this is what you really need to support whether the Council of Ministers or competent institutions. Well, if that were so, sir, then our world would not be walking the streets of other metropolises if there were no fears here in any form, of political instability, disaster, tax policy and all. What I read when I read the law by which you as an Agency are founded, therefore, and what you offer us for information does not correspond at all to what your authority is and what you should in your information offer us as representatives and advocates. For example. you could tell us that, if you were to say that from 2008 to 2017, this 2017 is a record year after direct foreign investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we need you to tell us for information on what basis, how did you do it? Do you, by your arrival, so whether by changing leadership, whether by changing administrative, supervisory, and I don't know whether because you have established a better relationship with the DKP network of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether you have any better support in the Council of Ministers, whether you as an agency or as the head of that agency have proposed to the Council of Ministers, so we should soon, because you say that you will have such investments that you will be... equal to the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I then wonder what models they are, let's share so that maybe other agencies will accept these models in order to flourish here as a state, and on the other hand, whether you have proposed as an agency some legislative changes, 48 additions, which will soon be on the agenda whether the Council of Ministers or Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to, behold, that increase, which you are announcing so enthusiastically, would occur. So, I can't accept that this is information at all, too, because you've led us into some sort of delusion with your subsequent letter, your exposure doesn't match what's written, which is right in front of us, and all of us, it all points to what Mr. Krčmar might have taken as a correction or a replica. I just, I can't accept it, and I think that you as a chaos should sit down again or that you, as chairman, call and withdraw these conclusions, because these conclusions are even less consistent with all of this, which is why you're looking for an increase in who and what. They have the same age, 1.5 million are out, the same number of employees, and now in 2017 they've just made some shifts in the first quarter,... here's more money. Well, give us back what you haven't been doing all these years, let him return to Budget, because you, what did 28 people, have 33 to 33 to hire them, what you did. Well, where's that money, who's to blame, who's gonna answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22735	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22736	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I will try here without emotion to talk, try to talk about something that is reality when it comes to direct and indirect foreign investment. Never has this Parliament but neither the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina received a real structure of total investment. When I say a real structure that refers to the investment sectors, so remember that boom when it invested in something that took a lot more away from this country, it's the banking sector, when under the press, internationally, under the supposed signs, literally all the banks were taken and became so-called. foreign banks. That's what we forgot. We've invested three so far pulling 33. We haven't seen this cross-border movement of capital in investment, and on the other hand, we have a ramp that literally prevents domestic companies from accessing external markets precisely because we don't have quality or quality domestic banking. I know that the director of this agency is trying very hard, but I would ask him not to make a trade praise, because it looks like Tramp, this recently in Davos when he came out and spoke. In parallel to that, Trampe caps, T-shirts and his company do what the Kinez do, but he's very grateful for the success. These real investments must be viewed through real income, not through what is called ultimately the overall realization, because the overall realization is the export of money from this country. That's what we really have. See what was most invested – banking sector, trade, transport, and if I start counting like this. And what I asked you to do through the Finance Ministry, or the Central Bank, to give the data as much as it gets out of this country, that no one will give. And then you have a situation where domestic investors or domestics don't have... stimulants, foreign investments released five years of this, released, so as an example, I'm going to give you a Koka-kolu. Remember... when he came and restored the Koka-kolu of that euphoria, can you remember that? And what happened, who owns the Coke today? Why didn't you follow that? Well, you have that investment six times the day you rebuild Coke. At the end of the fifth year... there was a sale of Koka-Cola-grčiti, just walking amongst themselves, at the end of the fifth year there was a sale of Coca-Koka-koli Holandija, I know it well. And do you know who owns it today? Coca-Cola of Ukraine. And constantly for five years they've been released because it's a new investment. What are we talking about? I see you confirm, but we don't have it here, we have to have it in these reports if we want a real picture of investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You're talking about 49 thermal power termoelektrana, amazing, but what's she for, what's she for? Where's she playing? For exporting and exporting capital from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and buying cheap raw materials in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the production of expensive kWh to be carried out. And that's why she's being made, and paying the workers under all possible means. the criteria. [[the speaker is warned on time]] This is all the data, ma'am. People won't talk like this. Thank you, but I'd like you to give me a chance to do this, because I know this issue well. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22737	Thank you very much. Representative Predrag Kožul, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22738	Well, I would say that no one reasonable questions the importance of foreign investment in one country, especially a country like Bosnia and Herzegovina,... therefore, economically at a low level. And that's why I like the optimism of the Agency's director, but we also know that the story of foreign investment has become one mantra or flossula political which often tends to be flat-rate on different occasions. So my colleague Backović really took away a part of my thinking, so I'll do it again very briefly – we don't have one very important thing in this report, we don't have the structures of foreign investment. It is very important, as I am not sure that all investments in the banking sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina have brought good to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am not equally sure that all investments in, for example, the retail trade in the Bosnia and Herzegovina oil sector have brought good to Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., etc. So the structure of these foreign investments is more important than these indicators, uh, mentioned here. I have read this report very carefully, which is relatively brief, for another reason, with due respect for the colleagues who are members of this committee in common, I find these conclusions somewhat speculative. In these nine pages of the Report, I tried to find two sentences, five sentences, a page, about this campaign, "Invest in Bosnia and Insectivities", I didn't find a word. And how am I supposed to choose to vote here for a conclusion that is a little bit, I would say, ishitren, perhaps even a flat-rate one, because he's asking to allocate funds, unaccounted for funds, some means, for an Invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina campaign that we don't know anything about from this report. And when Parliament adopts that something is required by the Council of Ministers, I hold it mandatory for the Council of Ministers to do so, and when we adopt these conclusions, we have brought our Council of Ministers into a difficult position, to set aside an unknown amount of funds for, at least for me, an unknown project. Likewise, this second conclusion that says, once again, to try to provide funds to encourage foreign investors. To implement or create a project to encourage foreign investment is a serious and too serious issue. And that is why this conclusion, which is not about terms or deadlines, is in this budget for 2018, is that as much money as it is and when, or is it in some future time, we do not have here, so these conclusions, since we are asking the Council of Ministers, are binding, and since they are also non-binding. Well, I don't think they might be the happiest solution in that part. And what was partially touched by fellow Lovrinović, and the House of Peoples addressed it with one conclusion that was adopted, is a very important issue, there is this problem, that I do not get into it. It is the work of the House of Peoples, and I am glad that it was done and done with one conclusion, so that there is no, perhaps, need nor direction to place such a kind or such conclusion here. He is from the House of Peoples, in a way, binding and important to stick to the structures of the employees, precisely because of the good atmosphere in such an agency, so that she can do this truly 50 very important work. That's why I'm a little skeptical, I say, according to the conclusions, because they're not entirely, uh, compatible with the report, so to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22739	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. Moving to point 94, ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It will be shared, the vote will include a vote on this conclusion. Ad. 94. Consideration of Salke Sokolović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 25.10.2017, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to submit, within 20 days of the date of adoption of this initiative, a report in the parliamentary procedure on the reasons for not taking the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance of BiH into full membership of the European Higher Education Security Organisation (ENQA), with a concrete proposal for measures to eliminate perceived weaknesses", number: 01-50-1-2527/17.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22742	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome my colleagues and colleagues in the O.R. Well, I would just like to comment on this initiative by fellow fellow Sokolović, that I am based on the answer we received from ENQA on the request of our Agency for the Development of Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the negative response that, in my opinion, is terrifying, that I have actually tried to do something and I have made a proposal for a law amending the Law on Higher Education. But since I have no information yet on the position under this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Higher Education, which is precisely based on the removal of the weaknesses listed in the response from the ENQA, or this European Agency. But here, I am taking the opportunity to invite you all to support the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Higher Education which gives some chance to higher education and to the Agency for the Development of Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina in a re-application for the European Association, which gives 51 chances for young people to be educated in a quality way in this country, not to leave this country wanting to be educated in quality. And I am particularly concerned, which is now with me and strengthened, by the response I received from the Council of Ministers for the Proposed Law amending the Law on Sports, which absolutely sends and undoubtedly sends a strong message to young people – leave this country, do not engage in sports in this country. Such a message, if we do not adopt this bill, we send young people to Bosnia and Herzegovina and when it comes to education. And, therefore, here I may have expanded this discussion a little bit, not just for this point as my colleague Sokolović asked, I appeal to all colleagues in the House of Representatives to support, to give a chance to one and another law at least in the first version, that eventually, if someone thinks it should be fixed, to try to fix the text and one and the other of this law, so that we can send again, as it says, a questionable message – yes, we care for you and we want to create space for you in Bosnia and Herzegovina to stay, to educate and to engage in sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22743	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22744	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Here, I apologize, I followed what you're saying and I didn't answer. I wish I was first, but it doesn't matter, Mr. Đonlagić was saying, uh, in the context of the topic and very important things. And here's my initiative to my colleagues and colleagues right now to support his law. Unfortunately, here, after three months and a few days we've been discussing, this initiative has come to order, so October 25th was a long time ago. And, here, since we already have a few introductory information I'd just like to supplement this information, that roughly colleagues and colleagues who aren't, uh, familiar with this topic get a little closer to learning what the essence of this initiative is. In fact, quality assurance is a key element in the reform of wax education and is one of the preconditions for creating a European high education space. Bosnia and Herzegovina joined the Bologna process in 2003. By signing the Bologna Declaration, Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted a single European high education policy with all obligations that are its integral part, of which the building of a quality assurance system is essential. Accordingly, information has appeared in the media that our Quality Insurance Agency, that our Quality Insurance Agency has not been admitted to full membership of the European Quality Insurance Agency, and that it has been rejected by the Management Board of the European Quality Insurance Agency. It should be noted that our Quality Insurance Agency is a member of the European Quality Insurance Agency in 2010 and that more than two years are being prepared for full membership. What is particularly surprising is the information that has come to us that our Agency has been rejected for political reasons, obliges this institution to consider the reasons that have led to this for us a very bad case which casts a shadow on the entire system of our higher education. What irritated me more is that she was preparing, that according to the information available, our Agency... The board of directors of ENQA and that it put some 19 reasons for such an act, one of which is essential to nature and some even procedural nature. The Management Board rebuked our Agency that it had not prepared itself well enough and gave it two more years to remove the gaps and re-competitions. All these allegations to me are surprising because I've been investigating this agency's work myself for the past few years. 52 However, the European Agency's warning that there are serious failures of an accreditation organisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's space must be taken seriously, as the consequences can be catastrophic. For these reasons, I have, uh, and according to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and also according to the Management Board of the Agency, this, prepared a few conclusions, and from, according to us in the Parliamentary Assembly, and they were said in short, that the Parliamentary Assembly was right to prepare and by the Ministry of Change of the Framework Law on Higher Education, which Mr Đonlagić spoke of as having its own proposal, and I was watching it and he certainly corresponds with all these negative remarks by the European Agency. In my opinion, we need to launch a responsibility not to think about the resignations of the Management Board of the Insurance Agency for not doing her part of the work during this period of time. Normally, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, I suppose, should give us one comprehensive information and propose certain measures to overcome this situation, and it is also required at the Parliamentary Assembly to specifically refer to the accreditation that has been obtained in illegal, accreditations that have been obtained in an illegal manner and particularly to political pressures, with the Parliamentary Assembly He also receives assistance from the Ministry of Security in his work. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I think media space is very weak. The story, I apologize only for one more sentence, and I believe that these allegations of refusal should be given more detail in the media space so that students and professors of the Bosnian-Herzegovina universities are informed on time about the current state of quality of education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Here, so much as an introductory part of this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22745	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22746	Thank you. Partlessly this is one of the burning issues for the country's future, education is the basis and foundation of every society, so it should be Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, in order for us to meet the standards needed in the development of a society, it is necessary to reach standards in education. A state that had two million inhabitants more than it has today, had three universities in 1990. A country that has two million fewer inhabitants than it did then, today has a number we don't even know about, is a special story is the structure and quantum knowledge students get. But I'm gonna go back to this. Inconsistency with the practice and norm of university education, not to say in the world, but in Europe, a real problem for a huge number of people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The world's largest polytechnic university, which has produced 11 Nobel Prize winners, has educated one number of Bosnian Herzegovic students, it's the University of Erlangen, I said precisely politically, so it deals only with technical sciences among others they have one direction called – elektromašinski. One number of Bosnian Herzegovic students, it's interesting from all nations or nations as you will, ended up here, and then, since we don't know an electrician engineer, they can't nostrate a diploma, absurdity that can't be. These young and highly educated people in their profession, because they couldn't even nostrate here, are working around the world today, because they could hardly wait for them to work there. They're absurds that aren't there. You have two universities in Milan, one is Bokoni, he's finished, say, Dodik's son and the other is Marangoni. No child who finishes Marangona, this one, can nostrate a diploma in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And now you have four Bosanac and Hercegovac in a remote Hong Kong immediately got a job, two in Los Angeles, one in New York, just because they don't know what they're done here, but that's why the world knows well. We 53 will have to start working on what the distinguished professor was talking about, the whole change in our children's education system. If we don't, we're going to get a country of imperceptibility, but a whole empty country. In the phase of preparation for today's session, I did an analysis of college graduates, or universities. Do you know what the ratio of basic science to social sciences is, has anyone ever done a team, who's going to work in this country? A hundred graduates are four from basic sciences, four are engineers, 96 are the most philosophers, politologists, then come economists, lawyers, and what the world doesn't know we've verified it, a graduate engineer manager. I don't know where it exists, I was looking for it doesn't exist anywhere. A graduate electric engineer manager, I just want to know what kind of electric engineer it is. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And we led to the absurdity of the following in health care. The director of the facility may not be a top expert in its field unless he has finished for the manager. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Woe to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22747	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the hearing at point 94. We're moving to point 95, Ad. 95. A review of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, Salko Sokolović and Sadik Ahmetović, submitted on 23.11.2017, reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), we submit a parliamentary initiative to convene and hold a session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives on the subject: Information on the negative trend of the departure of people from BiH, especially young people," issue: 01-50-1-2753/17 The House College has appointed a Joint Commission for Human Rights to discuss the parliamentary initiative. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on 21 December 2017. The commission accepted the above-mentioned initiative. I'm opening a debate. Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22749	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. So here's as one of the promoters of today's initiative. It is also known to you and to the public that this may be the seventh, eighth time we are talking about this subject, that we are looking for some way to formally open this story in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in one broad context and that we are going to make some kind of measure, some sort of response to this situation and say what we as a Parliament, what we as the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina want to do to preserve our people in this country. I personally think this is, in my opinion, the largest national, vital national interest of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have a mass departure of people from Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore there are no precise data, so it is important that this agenda item, namely that this session is held and that all these questions are opened at this session, and on all sides 54 we get the relevant answers. So, we're running out of whole cities, we're becoming an old country. One of the most, I would say, is that in the last two years, 150 thousand people have left Bosnia and Herzegovina, but what people who work at border crossings every day can see is that in the last three years, the number of people who cross the border crossings, the time they, the crowds that are being made, the time they need to cross the border crossing, the number of people who are actually leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina are talking about how many people are actually doing. So people generally leave this country because they don't see perspective here. I was just saying that the main people who run Bosnia and Herzegovina, even in public communication, what they say about this country, what they value send people to Bosnia and Herzegovina and how much they actually drive these people through their policies, how much they are the most direct reason why people leave Bosnia and Herzegovina. No perspective, no job, so no rule of law, no social security for people and their children in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, the fact is that this authority, that the people who run the country have no hearing about this issue, because that they would not have here for the eighth time today in this BiH Parliamentary Assembly, beg to be put on the agenda, that the College leading and this Parliament agree and agree that we have a session to open and discuss these issues. The country's main profile of the economic policy of the country's leading council of ministers, entity prime ministers, governments, is to raise new loans to restore the old. If there's anyone to convince me that this is different, here's what I'd like to open up that kind of discussion. So, often, you put yourself in charge, pick up some, by some worse, what is called, conditions and credits with domestic or international financial institutions to repay those old loans. So, impose new charges, bring new charges to Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are about 400 parafiscal charges in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they grow each year. The third thing is, then, here's the excise, from tomorrow to tomorrow, there's a tank of fuel that collects about 10 marks. So now we have a story that it won't actually come from these, from all that there won't be road construction, there won't be highways that will be financed from excises. You have the fourth thing, so inspections for those who don't have political protection, that's how the economic policy of this current government generally works, those who don't have political protection go to them, and some others can do whatever they want, and that's why people leave this country. And the fourth thing, so one of the basics, I would say, is the basis on which the economic, financial sustainability of the system in Bosnia and Herzegovina is based is the money that our people living outside are sending to Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to official information, 3.5 million marks are sent annually through the account, so people 3.5 billion, I said billions, 3.5 billion are sent over the account. I guarantee you that at least twice as much is brought to you from hand to hand. When someone comes out and leaves his father, his mother, his family, so when we have all this in mind, it's clear why the government doesn't want to, to solve the problem of leaving the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. They're interested in people leaving, they're interested... Who's leaving BiH? People between the ages of 20 and 40, so those who still have power, can change something, can one such system, what is called, bad people who run the country, who have the most significant, behave the most significant functions in the country, could change them. That's why it's in the interest of the government to have these people leave, and when they go out to send the money, what's their name, to keep their old folks home, that's how they keep social peace, so don't solve them through the border crossings to make it easier for them to come home, because it's not good for someone who went out and see how they have to. Better to live, to come home so that those here who live can open their eyes to them. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So I ask you, therefore, to show how you feel about this initiative, for the eighth time, is the way to stand, so I ask you to support and call for an emergency special session. The House of Representatives, that we have this agenda item on the agenda and that we are actually discussing this topic and finding this programme of measures that we need. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 55
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22750	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22751	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I want first of all to support the proposed initiative, because at this current moment, it seems to me that there is nothing more important about this topic in Bosnia and Herzegovina, although in front of such devastating data and negative statistics on eviction most often closes the eyes, and this closes the eyes of those who should see first, see and see every anomaly and every negative phenomenon in society, and especially those that have a significant impact on the demographic image in our country. The objective initiative should not be seen as purely opposition activity, but should be thoroughly processed and discussed in which significant participation and contribution should be made to the identification of adequate guidelines, including the academic community. It is clear to all of us that a large number of our citizens, regardless of nationality, religion or any other belonging, regardless of political commitment, unfortunately, is leaving this country. We ask the question why is it so, why is this negative trend of evicting the population so much now, why are our young people leaving, why are our families leaving? Do we have an answer to these questions in this country? Are the existing authorities even dealing with this topic, and who should answer these questions? I suppose the governments of this country, at all levels, should first see, describe and analyse these negative trends and phenomena of people leaving, and propose strategies and measures to reduce such a negative trend. But as far as we can see, governments are not dealing with these issues or at least dealing with these difficult essential and vital issues. And why aren't they in the business? Why are they even provoking such proposals or demands to discuss negative socio-economic trends and phenomena? In my opinion, the answer is simple, because these same governments, and even all the authorities so far in these last 22 years, have at least thought of trends that will take place one day when the citizens of this country realize that they have been deceived, manipulated, disproved and that their life and survival in their country is unspectived. Unfortunately, that's what's happening right now. There is now an expression of long-term irresponsibility and the absence of real judgment and planning for the development of state and society. Isn't that sad and devastating knowledge? Isn't that the defeat of all the policies so far? This situation and emigration are responsible for all political elites that have had leading interests in government and which have under-quality and most formally designed social and economic flows in our country. For example, for 22 years, robbery of state property has been estranged, its value has been reduced and its sales are invaluable, but individuals in these criminal and corruption trades in state capital have earned millions and are now managing the most powerful political circles that hold power. In these political and interestingly connected circles, both executives, and legislative, and judicial authorities were captured. And what did we get after two decades of democratic processes? We have received a society of wealthy and famous owners, although not many, but just enough to manage all social and economic processes based on the personal interest and interest of their close groups. This is our citizens, and especially young, especially young people, see They feel and that's why they're running as far away from this country as possible. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I would still suggest a conclusion, very little time for such an important topic, and the same would read: – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly requires the Council of Ministers to prepare and provide the relevant information with a proposal for measures and activities to reduce this negative trend. Thank you. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22752	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22753	Madam Chairman. I hardly know how I can formulate this, but it is a serious challenge that is not only a challenge for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but for countries in the environment, for the members of the European Union. The global world is generally in the demographic movement. I can speak from the opposition's point of view here, but that's not what I want. So, God Bog there was a magic wand in this country that would have a positive response to these challenges. And remember only in the '72s, '70s, at the time of the former Yugoslavia, when Josip Broz managed to get a few million people to go to Germany. Now these transfers from Germany come here and improve the living conditions of people, parents, etc. Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has left the war, needs twice the growth rate to deal with this, a war-torn country. Environment countries, member states of the European Union, lost 2.5 million last year. But I have to tell you, therefore, I am in favour of governments finding the answer that the most promising part of the population remains in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but that, the idea of freedom of movement in Europe is at odds with what we want. This topic can be popularized and politically abused, but I think it's just as bad as what people are running away. And that is why, as Parliament, I have concluded to the Council of Ministers that, together with other levels of government, it will create a programme to dynamic growth and ensure the acceptance of the young population, to create conditions for the young population. We don't want any bans, and in the end, I think it's in collegiate with the idea of a united Europe. Who knows how many people migrate or go from Britain to Germany today, from Germany to Austria, from Austria to France, because it's a single market, Europe without borders, if ever we experience it. But let's do it, we'd all of a sudden go to Europe, and on the other hand, if people didn't go to Europe. And the other thing, the complete African Asian part is on the move. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Do we know how many people will stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Can we deal with these challenges? [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, there are a lot of challenges in this country and I don't think every challenge has an answer, especially the country that came out of the war destroyed. But that doesn't mean that we need to amnesty the government to make programs. And in that sense, I will support this proposal from my colleagues, Šepić, and everyone else who is on this trail, and it is not a problem and the conclusion of our colleagues to adopt, just so that we don't make some populist, ambitious jokes, and we ourselves are aware that we are walking into a trap. That's how I wanted it, so it's not a replica to anyone, I respect everyone who wants this problem solved, but God Bog, it can't fit into one head, in one term, nor [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22754	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22755	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22756	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22757	I absolutely support the initiative. It's not a replica, it's a proposal from my colleague Emrić, because we're on the same track, with my little different proposal, so if the fellow who suggested the conclusion agrees, we can sign it together. So, if this government and the Council of Ministers or any, any other government at any level of Bosnia and Herzegovina wanted to do something, they would do it without us, or we would get a priority strategy that should be taken by them rather than us initiating it on this side. So, I don't doubt the Council of Ministers or any other government, but I believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina has extraordinary experts and experts in the field of demographics, economics, health, education, security, as well as representatives of non-governmental sectors, and I personally believe that the Council of Ministers or that we together sign a proposal for a conclusion – that the Council of Ministers, after adopting the proposal for a conclusion, forms a crisis headquarters within 30 days. Why crisis headquarters? Because we have been in crisis for a long time, and we need by experts a strategy which is the measures that we as a state must take, of course respecting the competences of all levels, in order to, in order not to stop, we will never stop it, but reduce the trend of going to a working-age population. This is also going in the context of what we talked about, what in the context of the revision, what about this information that we got from FIPA. So, if we're talking about people leaving, it's not a trend, Mr Špirić, don't lose, European Union countries don't lose in this kind of a working-age population. So when we talk about foreign investment, it means that we now have to tell the foreign investor, if you're coming to Bosnia and Herzegovina, the rich, by the way, take a little labor force with you, because we don't have that workforce. So, my colleague Emrić's proposal, if you're interested, because it is in the same context, that we together sign this content of the conclusion, because I think that this is what the profession should do and that, together with the Council of Ministers and other governments, it is all, whether, to the parliaments at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22758	Before the next MP gets his word, I warn all MPs and MPs of compliance with the business provisions. And this time a business provision has been broken, because a misappropriation of the wrong assumption has been used, and it has been done several times, so I ask you not to take it individually, but to adhere to the agenda, and to correcting the wrong assumption that you refer to which quote is corrected, and not to supplement certain things. It's done one other way. Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22759	Short fellow Špirić, although he is at the end of this discussion, has actually returned to what is essential, and the point is that this must be talked about. So, someone can understand it now, whatever you say here in the Parliamentary Assembly, you have some bad intentions, you're criticizing someone, you're something called, you want to be, they call you by various names, but the fact is that those who are trying to challenge, Nikola, to put this on the agenda, that's the greatest evil, is the biggest problem of this country. So, the people of war stopped 23 years ago, people don't go, Nikola, out of this country that are afraid of this kind of, what's called, the subject. So I can no longer listen to this political rhetoric of the same people, the same faces, the same policies, the same priorities, so you can't let someone for exactly 20 and a few more years cheat on you like that, so he lies with that same matrix, with the same subject. So, that's, uh, Nikola, the problem, is, people are leaving who have jobs. We've been doing analysis, we've been doing analysis, we've got a job, he says -- I don't want my kid growing up here in a horror, in a setting like this, in a subject like this, in a political discourse like this. They seek another narrative, seek another policy, a new policy, new priorities that is why it is important to do so in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, who left Bosnia and Herzegovina 58 before? The heads of the house were leaving and my father was working outside. Today the whole family is leaving, the whole family is leaving the country. So that's the thing about which, we can't put it in some broad global context and say, you know, time of global movement. The one from Sweden goes to Norway because three months in that period has a better position or job than he currently had in Sweden. But this has nothing to do with why people leave Bosnia and Herzegovina and especially has nothing to do with the fact that for the eighth time we discuss one and the same thing, we ask that it be found on the agenda, and someone is trying to observe it – it's what's called, a story that someone wants as an opposition or as a position. This is a matter of responsibility for us all whether we're in position, opposition, or whatever, all of us sitting here to show credibility, and potential, and the strength to talk about these real topics, not to lie about some other topics that we all know are not a problem. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22760	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22761	Thank you very much. I join those who correct the assumption that this is a global trend and that this is what's going on with us is actually happening all over the world. It may be in one part of it, but in any case, this is very different from moving or moving the population within the European Union. People leave here not to come back, not to go, uh, looking for a better job, so they'll go back there if they find a better job in their country. And I have to ask my colleague Špirić without any, of course, evil intentions – did I understand him well, by comparing to the 1970s, I realized that it was actually good that people from here are going to send some money that we are going to have bigger growth, that is to say, greater growth of social gross product, domestic gross product. If that's what it is, if I get it right, then what I'm saying is that I absolutely disagree with it and that, in my opinion, it has nothing to do with reality. So, we are left without a capable workforce, how we are going to grow with workers who remain here, with people who are not already able to satisfy such a poor and undeveloped economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you can think what it would look like if, not Bog, they came to cost investment, foreign investors in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22762	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22763	Thank you. I, my colleague Špirić, at the beginning of my address fenced myself in the sense that this is considered a purely opposition activity, means some media campaign that is nice to hear from the citizens of this country, and I don't want this topic to be understood in such a way, and that's why I initially and stressed it because this is now attractive in this election year. However, this is, as counterpart Novaković and many others stressed, and a global problem, but specific to Bosnia and Herzegovina. What's he specific about? So these emigrations aren't the same in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the European Union, here young people have no choice, they have no job at all, they don't have a job, they don't have social health care, so they won't have a salary, they won't have a pension, so what do they do, they have 59 hands to sit here. I agree, this cannot be solved by short-term measures, it takes long-term measures, but I also stressed, in my previous address, for 22 years we spend talking about the most important national interests while the citizens of this country are running away from us because so many of their leaders protect them from even giving them work. And that's why we're different from the European Union, that's the fundamental difference. Well, our young people here won't wait for years to wait for a deep age and fatigue and then realize that their lives are spent, they have to go, they're looking for a better tomorrow, they're looking for a better tomorrow where they're offered and where they have a choice. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately, there is no choice and that is a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22764	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22765	Thank you. I am correcting the false allegation that it is a global trend and a global phenomenon, and as a counter argument, I cite the fact that Dodik, Čović, Izetbegović are not a global trend and a global phenomenon, but a specificity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the policies they represent are not global policies but specificities of Bosnia and Herzegovina and one of the reasons why people in this country are leaving. Along with Sokolović and Ahmetović, colleagues suggested this as a part of the agenda, and we are now discussing whether we are going to discuss this, and we are not discussing it right now, so I will give up the discussion, and now I will say only one thing. So, first thing, support for absolute initiative. My kolegica, Gasal, has talked on several occasions about moving people out of the canton where she comes from, from the Lebanon Canton, and I think we should, uh, open up the debate, because it's a very specific problem. We should also talk about the attitudes of those politicians who say that we should, that people should go to send signs, not that they should be allowed here decent lives and that they are earning that money, we can talk and talk about those who have promised 100,000 jobs, but then they did not say that they are abroad, we should also talk about those who have come up with us to join the European Union by collectively moving to the European Union, and our country stays here where it is, and many other porches. And that's why I'm going to support this more than heartily. And I'm not sure the Council of Ministers is the best address and place to solve all the problems, but I'm more but sure that this is the right place to open this conversation on this topic, that is, this discussion. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22766	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22767	Oh, I'm sorry, actually, the question is whether or not we want to get along at all. I can't believe people don't understand what I'm saying. I was talking about donations coming from abroad to create a more socially viable atmosphere in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why I don't think my colleague Novaković understood me. This is not an easy problem to solve, and I agree that he needs to be discussed... to solve these problems. But in this country, everything was quarreled with one another, a municipality with a canton, a canton with another level, entities with a state, a... old one. Looks like in the election year we want to fight both old and young. I'd like, here, all the colleagues who want to solve this, 60 and this is both political, economic, demographic, and social, and every other question, so that everyone who knows something about it can write at least a page. And I agree with my colleague Maja, this is a very serious problem if we had an answer for him today, and it's much more unserious not to ask for an answer. And I don't think, I don't think there are three, two, five people who are holding back, and it's very difficult between the idea of a free Europe and our demagogy to shut them down. Bosnia is not going to be a ghetto, young people should go back and have communication, but governments should be held accountable to be paid five times bigger, to have what to stay for. So, that's what I agree, to open up the discussion expert,...of that, someone's for young people, someone's for old people, so there's someone who thinks that... somewhere. It's too serious and there's no quick solution. As we discuss this, things are happening, they're moving outside of us, towards us. So it's very I'm serious about finding a simple solution. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And I support having this conversation anywhere, anywhere. And don't let us accuse each other. It's not fair. I know it's political... saying you need to do everything you can to make sure the young don't go, but let's do it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22768	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22769	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I don't mind having this initiative discussed, but colleagues Šepić and Emrić, and later Mr Magazinović said a lot about this, so in some ways they're stepping out of the agenda, they're already talking about the topic as if we've opened it, so I'd like to add a few things to theirs, so the comments they made here after the pay phone when they talked about the agenda point. So I would like to ask Mr. Šepić – where would he be all these years? So, simply the man talks like he came to Parliament for the first time and that, behold, he knows nothing about it. And does he belong to those people who have done nothing, in whom he is rightly ascribed? I know that Mr. Šepić comes from the county that, according to some of my information, all these years have been the most unstable when it comes to political relations within that county, government shifts, changes, etc., and I don't know what he's done there, as a man coming from that neighborhood, that there's a stable situation and I don't know who bothered him there, which is a policy of establishment or people, etc. So it seems to me that this is not the first time he's said that people should be told here that when other people come to power that they will create from Bosnia and Herzegovina Austria, Sweden, Germany. Well, that's just a lie, pure lies, I don't know what money to get, so there's nothing there. And I would also say to him, and to Mr. Emrić -- you know, when I was young, and that's 30 years ago, you know what happened, so the war started, and of course I didn't want to miss it because the war offered a very high perspective. So, of course, I'm up for the story and we'll talk when the time comes if we adopt what you suggested today. And I would also say to Mr. Emrić, therefore, we are not all responsible, not as you called it in one word of the elite, so there are elites, by the name of the quote, as you say, who come from Širok Brijeg, from Grud, from Vitez, from Kresev, from Kiseljak, from Zepč, so I don't know if it's the same everywhere. So, how did these people who belonged to some elite come up with some sort of ambience? And economics if you want, and some people who belong to some elites are constantly creating a conducting anarchy, and they create an atmosphere that makes them leave here and leave. [[the speaker is warned on time]] But if this initiative of yours passes, we will talk about these elites that create, so it is not as simple a word as you said, some elites. So there is, of course, and only after 2000 do I accept 61 almost no responsibility for what's going on here at least in that political mile that I belong to. And we'll discuss it if it comes to the agenda, and then we'll talk about it. to see who did it and who was to blame for this condition that we found ourselves in. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22770	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22771	Thank the chairman. My guilty quote refers to these allegations that it's a global trend and that's how it's always been. That's not true and it's not very good to compare that period of Broz Yugoslavia and this now. At that time, people went after bread with their stomachs, usually a household head, a father, or possibly a mother with it, the children stayed here. They went to make money and bring money here, to come back here and live with dignity, and they were coming back, and they were supporting the family that was here. Today, people are leaving and not coming back, and they don't even want to come on vacation anymore. And this is a good initiative, we're going to support it, but I'm afraid, apart from the wild debate here, we won't have anything else. Because, first of all, this level of government does not have the mechanisms to do anything, this topic is more appropriate to entity assemblies where adequate mechanisms are found and where measures are found. I don't even know if we're gonna get the information on this, who's gonna give us the information. Will she give us information from Mrs. Željka Cvijanović who says that this is a trend, it is everywhere in Croatia, that is, in Croatia, yes, but Croatia has gotten on its feet because of this problem as opposed to us, or will Federal Prime Minister Fadil Novalić deliver it to us? How are we gonna get this information? We have a problem, we need to open it, but do we have solutions, who's going to give us and overlay the solutions? Shall we, can we adopt these solutions here? Of course we can't. And in the end, I have to joke and tell my colleagues, listening to all these here today, I have concluded, distinguished colleagues without any real intention of offending anyone, that someone gets angry, that you are all Mr. Bakir Izetbegović. Because when did Minister Mektić talk about this problem for you the other day, what answer did he get from the ruling party in the Republic of Serbia? That it is the position of Bakir Izetbegović and foreigners. So it seems that everyone quotes Bakir Izetbegović and foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22772	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22773	counterpart Špirić said he opposes politics – let us close the borders so that no one goes and opposes the policy of creating ghettos in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know that anyone advocates this policy and that anyone suggested something like that, but I also realized that this proposal goes in the direction that together, fellow Špirić, we talk about it, and that we are together in favour of politics that people have the opportunity to work here and live with dignity from their work, so if they want more than that, of course, no one will stop them. And let's say that we end this initial disagreement this way and say that we are ready to support this initiative and see how it is to specify. I agree with those who say that the Council of Ministers is not what these problems are going to solve, that much is at the lower 62 levels of government, but I repeat this once again is where this topic is going to be, this is the right place to open this topic. And finally, just to say for my colleague Lovrinović, this concept of conducting anarchy, you've said this greatly, and it's very useful and you won't be angry I'll continue to use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22774	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22775	Well, when I listen to my colleague Lovrinović, I really can't take the impression that Bakir Izetbegović wrote him a speech and sent him here through his leader, Čović, to read this how, in the way he did it, to perform this wisely so that, as our people would say, he could talk. So, you see, keep an eye on what I'm saying here, so the main one that will replicate Šepiću – Nikola Lovrinović. Since SDA and HDZ can't really agree on anything else, so I've said it many times before, they have no interest in agreeing, but there's an increase in excises, expensive fuel, and they're replicating Šepiću in that is a perfectly uglier tandem. And I have to congratulate you on that, but it's good that we all see it and that we all know it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22776	Let me ask you, you did not refer to the allegations that you corrected Mr. Lovrinović's fault, so you misused your business order.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22777	You don't follow then...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22778	Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22779	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The problem that is too serious, about a problem that can represent something that is the country's downfall, I don't mean the country's collapse in the physical sense of the word, but the country's collapse through the economy and the existence of a country of old, or persons incompetent, and we all go quickly, we step, for some work. We here need to speak very directly, because I have mentioned that I will mention some names, so I will start from that, in the previous discussion. The person who competed or competed 11 times and every time was ranked somewhere down there, I talked to her on several occasions, on two occasions she told me, because it was a very visceral, smart, pro-pulsive person, -- dear Bog, where this country is going. The worst college student was chosen and ranked first. Look out, the worst college student was chosen and ranked first. I say to him, "That is what he says. It is because he is a member of that party and I am not one of them." Now, this person who's applied 11 times today is your director, we'd say here the Directorate, the Office of Automation of complete Norway. And he competed on the Internet. And in a year's time, the operator came to be the director. His name is Šerif Koristović. Look, I'm saying it very directly 63. I'm not going to say another name right now because the person whose kid was in this room, she was sitting in this room, and now she's gone, nine times her child has applied, and all nine times it's been at the bottom, at the bottom. He finished his studies, master's degree, doctorate, and now he's got a scholarship to another doctorate in one country. Here because it doesn't belong to that and that political option didn't stand a chance besides those who are drilling, and are studying or colleges from which we will never benefit, or universities that are passing stations. Well, you know that joke -- if you go through the Falcon, open a window, you might get a diploma. The same situation is with Travnik, you know, and the vitez, that's right, that's the truth. And we obviously don't want to look and we don't want to open up our youth perspective in this country. I have these photos, and if any of these journalists want me to give, in the preparation phase, I did this, went to Sarajevo Airport and watched who boards flights to Western Europe. Go, gentlemen, and look at that. Your heart's about to break how many young people are leaving this country. I did the same thing on this bus station, which is very close to this building, and I watched when I'm talking about bus lines to Western Europe, according to Munich, according to Frankfurt, according to Milan, according to Stockholm, according to Amsterdam. Go and see who goes You know what their answer is when I talk to them – I bought a one-way ticket. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Why? I don't want to be riding around here by idiots. So who are those idiots? These are the ones who rule this country. that I have no right to live on this country. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I don't have the right to create a family, I don't have the right to have children, I don't have No human rights. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And that's why people are leaving us. Policy if it continues like this [[the speaker is warned on time]] I'm here, here, talking... [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22780	Thank you very much. Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22781	...in favour of the initiative. So Bosnia and Herzegovina needs a serious strategy to stop the people from leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina. And whoever has the dilemma should leave Bosnia and Herzegovina, and is wondering at this point, is located in an e-legislative or executive body in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If you remember when we adopted the Budget I said... The reasons and explained afterwards when it comes to members of the Armed Forces of BiH, that no one in this country, only if it has to, has to work for 550 marks, plus a little warm meal. [[You can't hear the video for a while.]] But no one, here, and from us here in Parliament or in some other legislative bodies had the right to say let's fix this situation. Here I see Mrs. Krišto last, she made one proposal for a visual member of the Armed Forces, and that's some progress. But what is it, let's project it now on the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, we didn't protect the workers in the real sector, the bosses earn both by hand and hat, the people say, the workers work from dark to dark, have minimal incomes. Someone is responsible in this country for being in such a state, that they don't work as long as necessary, that someone doesn't pay them overtime. Well then, here I saw, then these drivers, the electricians, the army, the carpenters, they're going to Slovenia, because that's where we get three and more times more. So if we're not aware of that, then we can't say, that we're going to change the situation. We have terrible corruption, terrible discrimination when it comes to the health sector. In Bosnia and Herzegovina alone, from the end of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the end of Bosnia and Herzegovina, health workers do not have the same incomes. Why? Because we're divided into some kind of entities, some kind of canton, and then we can't balance those receipts. For what? The law, human rights, the same expert prepares, the same size of work, spent at the same time, so it requires a healthcare worker to be paid throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina and everyone else, in education, and not to list 64 more. Which is why entity governments don't do it, and tens of millions, we've given them billions of marks now through, or you've given them, through the budget. I responsibly claim that pensions can be different. Which is why no one raises the issue of the differential VAT rate to improve the economic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and no, we will pay for the fuel from tomorrow, and make it even harder, even more people to get out of this Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not to talk about these things that they are, so until we end this employment corruption, that political employment, that hiring a neighbor, friends, relatives, etc., we can't do any good in this country. So, regardless, you can be angry with someone or not angry, the current government, or the current one, up until now, so I was part of that story, it wasn't working, but I did warn and I said it shouldn't be done like that. There is money in this country that we do not know what we will of them but there is no host to manage the system so that in this Bosnia and Herzegovina everyone gets as much as it belongs to him. What is the problem with adopting a law on the even development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So will we all live in Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar? I won't, but let me where I was born and where my children are to live normally. That's what we'll do if someone in this country ever passes a law on even development. Now, in that strategy, it should also be taxed in the '18 elections. years, if either the same structure or other structure comes people by this strategy must solve problems. We're an old country, Bosnia and Herzegovina is a priority, Natalie's in decline. If something, and we're responsible, so we can run away from it, but we didn't bring a strategy and we're not at the lower levels, here's the story, it's not our jurisdiction, so let's bring us a strategy, let's bring these famous framework strategies, laws, to order lower levels of government to work on solving these problems. Until we get to that story, we'll have what we have today. And, here, not to be longer, I hope that this debate that we will have will at least produce this part of the strategy in which we will taxively tell what the problems are, which is why young people are leaving and why and how much funds it is to stop it. And I'm going to make another proposal - to remove the Agency for Labour and Employment immediately. She's exporting people from Bosnia and Herzegovina, she's not hiring, she's exporting, she's making deals, right now, she says, we're doing well... medical staff in Germany, something Austria's interested in, let's go. People. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And here these old men will stay To die, neither will these young men come to bury them. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22782	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22783	Mr. Sokolović, I know your intentions are sincere and honorable, but besides the Institute you forgot to say that 11 agencies were formed to export the workforce from Bosnia and Herzegovina, you forgot to say that with 11 letters and numbers. And in order to do that, I will read something to you – I cried watching you and your discussion, my child with an average of 10, a magistrate, doing doctoral dissertation outside, there is no room for you sitting in that Parliament in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. Under a full name and last name.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22784	Please, you have misused a business provision, you have not corrected the wrong assumption, you cannot refer to yourself and say that something has been forgotten by the honourable representative. Everything he thinks he'll say and find a way to say it. 65 A representative of Damir Arnaut, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22785	I thank the chairman. Ma, you see, I really ask you that, here is also when a colleague of Backović and everyone else is, uh, applying the Consistent Rules of Procedure, so there is no mention of the wrong quote in the Rules of Procedure, this, just as one category, but as two. Therefore, the MP may request a word to correct, quote – in his opinion he blames an indication which may be the cause of the misunderstanding or which requires an explanation. I saw this as something Mr. Backović saw looking for an explanation. And I think you really need to be there for a little bit more, uh, careful about these rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22786	Thank you. You also abused the business provision, did not ask for clarification, but, I listened carefully, said – You forgot to say. He was not in his position or something that would point to some kind of agreement, so please, each of you is how much you respect the Rules of Procedure and how you behave. And that's the mirror of this House. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22787	I also want to correct Mr. Sokolović's false allegations that we are responsible here for this. It's a much more complex question for us to take responsibility for this here. We can be co-responsible because we didn't do something and we could do it, but responsibility is much wider, and especially responsibility is in entities, so first of all, depending on jurisdiction when it comes to economy and some other issues. Of course, we can't get away from co-responsibility. And in order not to answer for the discussion, I'll only tell you, if I may, if I may, one sentence that shows, I'd actually say all the absurd questions that we're dealing with today. A friend of mine asked me to help, to help his sister's son go to South Sudan for a peace mission. You can imagine what kind of situation we're in.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22788	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22789	Thank you for the intervention, Madam Chairman, I may have expressed myself in a flossular way. Mr Sokolović, did you deliberately or accidentally drop 11 agencies dealing with the intervention of people from Bosnia and Herzegovina, highly educated, from Bosnia and Herzegovina around the world. Please tell me that.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22790	Thank you. Representative Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22791	My correction to the wrong allegation refers to all previous corrections to the wrong assumption. Unfortunately, I must say that the virtually large number of MPs were used by abuse of this approach to the congregation in view of a very sensitive and very interesting area that is dramatically difficult. We are here today to state whether we accept the initiative to discuss the issue of the dramatic departure of young people from Bosnia and Herzegovina at the plenary session of the House of Representatives. And every story, in its own way, everyone has contributed to this situation being more... and this all looks like that movie, uh, "The Father on the Official Way" when those babies go to the Zenica Home and says – when you discuss these things then let me know that I can talk about something. Unfortunately, as long as we talk like this, this situation will be even more dramatic. This is such a serious topic, if only demographically... we were to discuss the birth rate, when Bosnia and Herzegovina would adopt today a strategy to increase the birth rate in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it takes 50 years to improve the situation. So that's what serious demographics indicate. If we wanted to do this, for starters, I think it would be important not to juggle these accusations of one, the other and the third, but to tell us what our common goal is and that everyone does their job. If the plenary debate is like this, and it will be safe, yet... it will absolutely have no purpose at all. We just have to do... according to the constitutional, positive Rules of Procedure we can do. I just wanted to say, I think we've completely wasted this much time, it would be more meaningful for us to say how, we have so much illogicality in these statements that it's simple to not believe. Those who speak against youth leaving are directly against investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, infrastructure development and all that, so we simply cannot be surprised by it. What I only know for sure Before us temporarily well, I'm not sure we'll have people who can choose us for what we're doing. [[the speaker is warned on time]] We'll have no need... for health or anything like this. behavior. [[the speaker is warned on time]] That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22792	Thank you very much. Representative of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22793	A false allegation, in line with the Business House of Representatives, of Lazar Prodanović's colleagues who say that in 50 years, of course I appreciate a colleague of Prodanović because it is indeed and so, however, what demographics know. They knew more about the Council of Ministers when they said that by adopting a set of excise laws, they would grow and natality, so that we had nothing left to do but wait nine months to see if there was going to be a baby boom. And on the other hand, the cheap workforce and investments that you mentioned that, here are some of us who are against foreign direct investment, and we don't want young people leaving, but we're against foreign direct investment. If you read the Brochure made by FIPA, those Bosnia and Herzegovina besides these natural resources, as they say, which Bosnia and Herzegovina is plentiful, and with the ores and all other things we have as a country, they state that another important thing in Bosnia and Herzegovina is cheap labour. So they sold us in the world as cheap labor. And, of course, these young people, and when they come to us, a real investor, so does that mean that a foreign investor should get a trained done worker for 350 marks, or should that young educated man go to the European Union and work and live from his work? So you can't say that we're against foreign direct investment but we're against the way FIPA does it. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-0.u22794	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Before we go to point 96, I suggest we unify the debate on points 96 to 102 of the agenda, including point 102, given that it is a matter of granting consent to the ratification of amendments, agreements, contracts and protocols. I'd like to make a statement about the motion to unite the debate. Of the 35 present – for 27, there are no objections, 8 abstentions. I find that we have a general and entity majority and that we have united the debate at points 96 to 102, including point 102. Ad. 96. — 102. Granting consent to ratification of amendments, agreements, contracts and protocols You've been given opinions from the Foreign Affairs Committee. I'm opening a debate on those points. I don't see any reports. I'm concluding a debate on these points. This is how we exhausted today's session agenda. Now it's 2:45, I'm taking a break an hour, and that break will also be a break for the vote. After that debate, then, after that break at 15:45 we continue voting on this session and on the agenda and after that vote we will go with the new 57th session. Thank you very much.
