ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25716	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing our 62nd session of the House of Representatives, which was interrupted on 30 May 2018. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak delivered a notice that earlier commitments would not allow him to attend the session. The Office of Justice of Josip Grubeša has been informed that the minister will not be able to attend the session because of the service trip. The cabinet of Human Rights and Refugees Minister Semihe Borovac has been informed that the minister will be prevented from attending the session, and that the session will be attended by Deputy Minister Predrag Jović. The absence from the session was justified by Mirsad Mešić, and MP Asim Sarajlić announced a delay. According to the Office, 32 MPs attend the session, I find that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. I would like to remind you that the session was interrupted after the end of the tenth item of the agenda, so we will proceed with point 11. Point 11. Ad. 11. Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption for the period 01.01. – 31.12.2017. No: 05/8-04-785/18 of 20.03.2018 The Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption submitted 17/05/2018. Opinion on the report. The Commission unanimously accepted the report and referred it to a further parliamentary procedure. On the first part of the 62nd session, Parliament member Mensura Beganović presented conclusions. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. Finalising debate at point 11. 2 We move to point 12. Ad. 12. The second report of the monitoring of the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015 – 2019 and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015 – 2019 for the period May 2015 – December 2017, applicant: Anti-corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, issue: 05/8-04-601/18 of 26.02.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25721	Point 15.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25722	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25723	15, point 15. ... SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25724	15. Information about project PRO-Future
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25725	I'm sorry. So we're going to point 15 and we're done with point 14. Point 15. Ad. 15. Information on the project PRO-Future and Peace Platforms – submiter: The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, issue: 01,02-37-1671/17 of 11.07.2017 (scheduled statement at the 61st session of the House, held on 17.05.2018) In last session of the House, we held an information debate. On the proposal of Parliament Diana Zelenika, the predstavnički of Representatives adopted a conclusion that reads – a statement on the PRO-Future and Peace Platforms for the next session is being postponed, with an attempt to bring the MPs' remarks into line with the aim of being unanimous or acceptable by a number of MPs, which would be a strong message of co-existence in peace and tolerance. I'm opening a debate. Nikola Lovrinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25727	Good afternoon, good greeting to the chairman, members of the College, all present in the hall, I wish us successful work. So, one of the ones on the topic that was discussed at the previous part of this session was me, and I was talking about some concrete things, but, therefore, I didn't specify them at that part of the session, but that conclusion that you read opened the possibility that the proposal of matter, formally at this point, so the Ministry, the trial, based on the debate that was conducted in that part of the session, would agree with those who had certain objections to the possible changes of some, to whom the need was indicated. I took for myself the need to write in writing these changes that I was thinking about back then, and they mostly refer to this part, so I can call it in the preamble of these few, two or three paragraphs, and I have to admit that the people who work, or the people who work in this CRS and other associations that have dealt with this issue, and in fact the Ministry is formally the Proposer, and they've worked most on it, contacted me and we've had the conversation, and as far as I know, when I've shown them what I've proposed in writing, or what I'm going to suggest to supplement now, it's going to be kind of my condition to raise my hand for this, that first, that they vote these amendments and supplement. I'm not going to read them here, I'm going to share them in writing with a signature. They told me then, at the end here they were present, that it was not a special problem for them and that it was sort of a repair and clarification of the text of what I was talking about, and she was an unknown last time. However, I expected the minitarstvo, therefore, as a formal promoter, to be directed towards me or to some of the other colleagues who talked about it, which did not unfortunately happen. So, I really didn't need to, as I would say, run after the Ministry, run for some assistant, say what I said. So I suggest that it be included in the vote of these one-page remarks that I will make in writing that I do not read them, because they relate exactly in which sentence what needs to be changed, that I do not burden you with it now, you will see when you receive the text before you. And if they adopt, therefore, these amendments and additions that I said that these colleagues who have done so have no special objection, are not unacceptable to them, then I am prepared to suggest and complete the text of the rest of these, as we have called it, this document. Thank you very much. Here, please service that...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25728	Discussion, Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25729	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome all my fellow Members and fellow Members of the House of Representatives, members of the Council of Ministers and others present in the O.R. In fact, when the debate was being held on the proposed agenda, we have also made it clear that we believe that Parliament does not need to declare the projects of any international organisation because we believe there is a series of activities carried out by the non-governmental sector in this country. There are different donors, there are different needs, and we think it is not good to introduce such a practice in Parliament, that the projects of NGOs are being declared by Parliament, i.e. that it makes some kind of recommendation by estimating that this is part of the programme, or project task of whoever implemented this project in this country. However, given the fact that it is very important issues, I would like to apostrophe the position of the party from which I come, that in all documents of party political content, among other things, the permanentity emphasizes the political position of the SNSD that we are for the full affirmation of peace and stability in this country, and I believe that the SNSD as the leading political structure in Republika Srpska is recognizable and that it has sought partners in many of the processes that have been conducted in this country, and today we are attached exclusively to peace and stability. However, what I want to say and what I would like to propose to the House of Representatives, that we take care once again about whether we are entering, one new model, which is that every time we analyse certain goals of the NGO, whether we are going to open a new one, I would say that every time some of the organizations together with donors are designing a project task in order to indicate that this should be confirmed by BiH institutions which I find very problematic because I have to say that NGOs are independent, their role in some things is clear, in some things it will never be clear, and we think that in this direction we need to keep an account and that in one sophisticated way we access 5 analyses of all those, I would say, presented programme objectives and tasks that NGOs present to the institutions in this country. In view of the fact that we have made it very clear that we do not support the circumvention of entity institutions, I find it very useful once again to be an interlocutor, and I am sorry that the competent minister is not present here in the O.R., and think once about whether there is enough space, I believe there is, and I suppose there is a willingness not to bypass entity institutions. Any solution that is offered here, and that the institutions of the entity are bypassed and that we do not have the views of the entity institution, we will not support it. So once again I want to suggest, I see that the Deputy Minister is present here, I see that the representatives of NGOs who have conducted this project are present here in the O.R., we know that some of the activities are carried out locally, it is evident that this proposal bypasses the entity level. For us, this is unacceptable, and I therefore suggest that you accept our proposal to conclude, that the statement on this, on this Platform, on this project of the international community, or of certain NGOs, be made in 30 days, and that the competent Ministry and those who implemented this project in Bosnia and Herzegovina are involved in the activities to obtain official statues of institutions, i.e. entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25730	Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25731	I thank the chairman. I just have to correct the wrong assumption that entities are ignored by this project. This is absolutely incorrect because the municipalities are probably in entities, and the cities are in entities, and as far as I can see this Platform was signed by the mayor of Trebinj, Mr Luka Petrović, and Mayor Modrica, Mr Mladen Krekić, Chief of Trnova, Mićo Kraljević, Chief of Staff, Mr. Vlasenice, Mayor of Trnova, etc., many other municipalities in Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25732	Correction of the wrong quote, Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25733	It is true, I want to thank the current Commissioners who are committed to peace and stability. Of course, the role of the chief is to affirm a tolerated relationship in the local environment, there's no dilemma at all. Their activation is necessary in the implementation of certain projects, but the government of Republika Srpska's position is also necessary. It is very important that the National Assembly of Republika Srpska discuss this. It is very important for the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Administration to say its opinion, the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons. It is very important that there is such a species, and I believe that there is one such one, I would say, support in the institutions of Republika Srpska. We simply aim to have an attitude and do not ask that in the implementation of a particular project, and it is stated there in the view of the Ministry of Human Rights that it is a project of the American organisation, to bypass one level in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is an entity level and for this reason I appeal once again to the promoter and those who implemented the project, and they are present in this room to accept our conclusion, to postpone 30 days, and to intensify activities in order to have the opinion of the entity institutions for this. I believe and I am convinced that there is this kind of support in both entities, but simply not 6 we can skip that level of decision, that level of constitutional jurisdiction, and we will not, as we have not yet, without the attitude of the ethnic institutions or plead on this issue because we do not have a position. Don't go around entity institutions, this way we bypass entity institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25734	Senad Šepić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25735	Mr. Chairman. This document, which we have before us, therefore, should send a message from the highest legislative place, with the highest legislative authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that we who understand this issue, to affirm, support a story relating to the construction of peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, tolerance, co-existence, reconciliation and everything else written in this document so as not to read it again. This is a principled statement, a message that no one below or above can, as I would say, make a special commitment, but sends one responsible message. I think today again, for the second time, to question some, conditionally speaking, as I would say, procedural things, and which in this particular question are not really standing in my opinion is unfair and irresponsible. So, this document was attended by representatives of all policies, all authorities, governments, the closest associates of all possible leaders in Bosnia and Herzegovina, all main political parties, so, 60 mayors and mayors and all political parties in the territory of the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the entity of Brcko District, people who live directly in the field of peace, so, building peace, living peace, made one document in which we are only here today in collaboration, here, and with civil society, NGOs, religious communities, we as Parliament just need to say that we accept, understand, support one such approach in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and if we have a dilemma about it, then we are people in trouble. Whoever tries to challenge this for any reason, so let him ask himself what his purpose is, what his role is. Forward this document, I suggest this and the people who are this, who run this direct project. Here, the municipalities, the local levels, the forwards and the cantons were included, and the entities. I don't believe Staša someone in the entity, in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, especially if, if you're honest about what you're saying here at the pay phone, would have anything against this. So, even if it were, here, and it went to the congregations the same thing would happen, just this second time, since we have this second time here in Parliament today, it would be a disastrous message, that we as Parliament, as the highest body of government, the legislative authority of BiH, are unable to agree on such universal messages, then, I repeat, we have a huge problem. And whoever questions it in this way must ask himself, as it is called, what is his role, where he goes, so where does he think these processes in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be led. So, and I also support this approach that Mr. Nikola said, if people have accepted it in that form, from the organization that did this, install it, but I'm asking you to really vote this out today and put an end to this. After that, forward it to the entities, follow the cantons, let everyone in that sense be informed. I suppose they will say the same to their legislative authorities, confirm this, too, but we as the BiH Parliament will send a message of our responsibility and our understanding of this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25736	Thank you. No more reports. Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25737	I don't think there's any need to apostrophe whether someone's telling the truth here at the pay phone, I think when peace and stability are in these places that we all know that it's been in this country in some difficult moments, and that we all have this attitude that never and ever happens again, not just here, but in the areas of Europe and the world at all, and otherwise, globally and there's no dilemma, and I don't want to waste any more energy. But once again, I want to say, I don't want to bypass the institutions of the authorities, entities, and I once again suggest and repeat that the implementation of the PRO-Future project and the Peace Platform were involved, so the local level, and apparently the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons. Why are they bypassing entity levels? I also claim that at the entity level, everyone is for peace and stability, after all, and in the opening statement, I said what the basic views of the party I come from, because in all the programming documents, it is very clear that our need to affirm all together peace and stability in these areas, but we are bypassing the entity level. We will not support any solutions to any issues if entities are not visible in the process, decision-making and process of advocacy. Here this project is not time-limited, or termed until 01/07, to be adopted. During the project, those who implemented the project said the goal was to implement it through the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We've seen in the talks that there's a willingness to bring this down to the entity level. With this in mind, I suggest you accept our conclusion, given that project contractors are not time-limited, and we have time to accept our conclusion that the House of Representatives extends the decision on the project PRO-Future, information, implementation of the PRO-Future and Peace Platform until the procedure is implemented and in entity competent institutions. Do not bypass the constitutional jurisdiction of the entity Please chair the motion to present this motion for a vote, in accordance with our proposal. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25738	Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25739	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, one part of the discussion, my colleague Šepić, in fact, only the supplement was taken from me by my colleague Košarac, so really, this document called the Peace Platform is not time-limited, and as Mrs Zelenika said last time, it would be very interesting for us all to support this, if the Peace Platform really is ugly if there were some levels or we didn't have a style about it. If that's really not the problem, and if, and I found out that people were going to bring this down to entity assemblies, that's not the problem, I don't see any reason why this SNSD conclusion might be supported. Why am I saying this? Because also in the Information the minister said, so in one part of the text, somewhere in the fifth paragraph, she said it was a strategic document, and the document itself said it would turn into a relevant document. So, very interesting, all that Mr. Šepić said, but we still don't need it if not all levels, and people intended, as much as I know, that all the congregations, when the commissioners already signed, there's no reason not to sign it, not even the entity congregations. However, I have said my personal position, that this text that is in front of me, right now, is in session, as it is already today with these amendments, perhaps ready to accept, but I am also ready to support this 8 that we, here, be clear after this document has been declared by the entity assembly. So I don't see any reason why it shouldn't be like that. If we want to adopt a document called the Peace Platform, it would be very interesting for us all to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25740	Thank you. Let me just remind you, at the last session, we ended the debate on this subject and we adopted the conclusion, just to see... but here we have the debate again, so please keep that in mind. Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25741	I thank the chairman. I welcome all the docks. So it's worth mentioning myself during this, how it came to be. So, colleague Diana Zelenika, when she proposed this, I believe that she had a good intention of leaving the BiH Parliament with a unanimous support to a document called the Peace Platform and what they were supporting this conclusion, probably and wanted the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to give the public a view of how, behold, these parties sitting here are all unanimously for peace, and here again we see from the discussion that some are not. Why they are not, or why they want to send that message, but under the condition of four men or ten people present here to do so as they wish. So, if my colleague Lovrinović says he already has some proposals on the text itself, that means that one party in the BiH Parliament wants to convince all other parties that this text, which only they should be installed for, and if it is not incorporated, that text that we have not yet received as a proposal, they will not raise their hands. And it's perfectly legitimate, and you don't need to raise your hands, because you're not in favour of peace, because if it were for peace, you'd come down when campers from both entities, so they didn't ask for the consent of neither the Government of Republika Srpska nor the Federation of BiH to come before us and tell us what they lived through and how they were willing to forgive and how to pass on forgiveness to generations and not forget the past, but to move towards the future. The promoter made a mistake in the steps that people who told their confessions down in the Parliamentary Assembly's hall didn't bring them to the white room, so that you all can hear what these people have to say. What my colleague Košarac notes is that the procedure to be asked by the entity government is not respected, so Mr. Košarac You knew a hundred times by some laws, and even by some international projects to come with the government's opinion in writing and to get up and say – here, we have the opinion of the Republika Srpska Government, we cannot support it. My question is to you – why didn't you, here, have time, we don't sit so often to come with a prepared document and tell us what the Government of Republika Srpska thinks about something called peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You have not done this, but are taking advantage of the opportunity to continue to extend peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. All those who do not support this send a clear message, send a message that they will use this next four months of pre-election campaign 9 to justify being for peace, but still cannot do one document, just a document called. Imagine that there are other strategic goals here, numbered, which would have us as the BiH Parliament, and all other levels urged us to make an action plan for the implementation of peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is not, it is only one message. On the other hand, you say that they are not, that they are not respected, the opinion was not taken into account by the Republika Srpska government. If you have read the 143 local communities document from all political parties, more than 60 mayors and mayors, my key question is whether it does not exist in the SNSD and HDZ within the party or at all the party infrastructure that you yourselves check out what anyone is signing or taking or receiving knowledge or implementing, or you know now what Mr. Lovrinović is proposing, to be installed in the text, it means that it is a new platform, a new text that should go now, to descend down the entity into the local community, and that perhaps now some mayor or mayor or local community who says that in this form that might be adopted here with Mr. Lovrinović's proposals do not want them to accept. So, I absolutely don't understand what the intensity of both my and my colleagues Diana Zelenika was, why some are afraid to show my hands or press the button here, to show whether they're for peace or not for peace and why this kind of message should be unanimous, because we in Bosnia and Herzegovina are unanimous and we are for peace, so we wouldn't have the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we live day by day. So I see absolutely no reason for prolonging, i.e. to accept the conclusion of my colleague Košarac, as I see no reason to support my colleague Lovrinović's proposal, because this text has already been adopted at other levels. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25742	Thank you. Mr. Staša Košarac, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25743	I'm going to be a very short chair. I appreciate that we have different views, political views and political goals, and I don't think I'm going to be able to understand the content of these political objectives. I'm for peace and stability, and for that I don't need any act or anyone. I claim that the institutions of Republika Srpska are all fully committed to peace and stability. I claim that all political structures in Republika Srpska are committed to peace and stability, all of them, and there is no dilemma. But we need to vote on the information provided by the Ministry of Human Rights, on the implementation of the American project, so it says in the act, PRO-Future and Peace Platform, which bypasses the constitutional capacity of entity institutions and that the entity institutions are not involved in this project, and we don't have their opinion, that's the essence. That is why we are asking for 30 days for those who have implemented this project to be included in accordance with constitutional competences and that this issue comes down to the level of debate in entity competent institutions which I am confident will support, but we will not support the adoption of any information when bypassing the constitutional capacities of the entity institutions. That's the point. This is not just about peace and stability, but about acts delivered by the Ministry of Interior, which bypasses entity institutions whose political need and objective is to affirm political and stability in these areas. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25744	10 Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25745	Mrs. Maji Gasal. So, I don't know if your programme goal is to end democracy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, parliamentaryism. So this is Parliament, this is a document that has come before us, it is legitimately the right of every party, every individual, every MP, to say what he thinks about the document and the proposals that his colleagues make. I don't know what you mean by that, and is it a lot to ask that this document has an agreement, is it a lot to ask that we all stand behind it and that it is truly peace? You're saying very difficult words, so you'd like it most, then this shouldn't have come before us, it should have been signed and released somewhere where it should be released, and delivered to someone to whom it should be delivered, and it wouldn't be Parliament's position. That would be the attitude of someone who did this, etc. And when you talk about what happened last time, we're not actually invited, and I don't know what the problem was, we didn't even know it was happening down there. In addition, therefore, you do not know, let's say, I later looked at that exhibition of persons who had experienced certain life tragedies, for example Anđelko Kvesić was down in the picture, the man who led the Association of Campers, and who for his life, I am not sure if he ever proved that there was a camp where he was imprisoned. So, we have all this and everything, this document also says political assessments of certain things, some perceptions that should serve us for the future, such as divisions, as alternative history, meaning we've been focusing on something that needs to be maintained, a document and reflect the attitude of all of us, and if you will, and he himself is to reconcile us all here, not in terms of a wartime soap of unwarranted rather than a common attitude for pro-future. So, I don't know what I'm asking too much, I don't know how you imagine it is, to think what you're saying? So we say our position, we vote, we don't vote, it's also our right to this and every other document. Come on, don't take away our right to democracy. Thank you very much. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25746	Mrs Dušanka Majkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25747	Thank you very much. So here's a colleague and a colleague of mine last time I talked about this, and again, I got the same question – why are we discussing this so much, if everything's okay and if nothing can come up with a question like this? The debate itself says that something is happening and that there is something in the background that obviously one has information about another does not have and puts this material in a special context. Secondly, the question that could also be asked out loud is – Why is this process of not adopting this document, which, by the way, we have advocated, or led or co-operated at its work, the Mozaik Foundation, Karitas BiH, the Tuzla Citizens' Forum, the Helsinki Parliament of the citizens of Banja Luka and the Interreligious Council in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it's not likely that it's a document that these five organizations have made that can't change a word on it, what kind of document is that, is that Constitution, what is it? What is this document that 11 NGOs made that no one invited a parliamentarian to participate in this? Why, couldn't we have been correct to participate, to make our contribution? The fact that 50 commissioners, 60 participate in it does not mean anything is local, they have no responsibility to decide whether or not to adopt it at BiH level and why it started from a local level, so it went faster to the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons, right, and then to the Parliamentary Assembly, leaving the middle level of the government somewhere in the air. It speaks of bad intentions, who in this country could be against peace, don't play and pretend, we're throwing unsuitable bombs in front of each other, who in this country that lived was against peace, but the way we're doing it, the mistake of making a mistake from the beginning. You've seen how much the Human Rights Commission has suffered with it, so once, then twice, so what it needs, so it doesn't have to be, the atypical totally way this document has come, it's very missing, and it's missing that those at entity level should say..., maybe it's the same in the Federation, maybe the same, but it's not the same in Republika Srpska, and you have to respect it. We will always have on the sake of the document the position of the Republika Srpska government, whether or not a document should be adopted, don't be angry with it, that's our principle, the government for each point of the agenda gives the view of Republika Srpska on individual documents that are adopted at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, get used to it, don't object to that. And there's one more thing to tell you, when it was that exhibition you're talking about, I first heard it when some of them, it was an exhibition, when some of them started talking about it. Is this exhibition not important for all the messengers, so you have clearly read here, and who will go to the exhibition could not all go? Well, come on, I mean, really don't do that, what kind of information it was to hold an exhibition on the ground floor. Well, if it's hidden from me and that kind of thing, then I'm entitled to have us from the club suspecting a document like this. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25748	Mr. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25749	The Honorable Chairman, please return this to the discussion box. And the correction of the false quote, for days, days, days, and days stood by those images that we passed by, and we were all informed, and to pretend insolent, naive, uninformed at least is degutant. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25750	Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25751	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and welcome all present. I appreciate the good intentions of NGOs, and I think that there is a need for dialogue in Bosnia and Herzegovina in which parliamentarians must be involved, I don't know why we were all invited to the exhibition, here I asked a couple of colleagues sitting around me, agreeing with Mrs. Majkić, so it concerns me and her, this exhibition and all the colleagues here, so nothing personal on your discussion, but here I want to say that it is very vague and as a member of the Human Rights Commission and as a person who's used to discussing such things on the Human Rights Commission, I don't remember that we have reached a conclusion and that we have made a statement about this report, so I allow me to make mistakes, but more representatives don't remember it, but it't well that we don't remember it. So, or we haven't been through it properly, yet it's not personal 12 at all on the President of the Commission, the NGOs have always had excellent cooperation with the Commission on human rights, whether this time has been delayed, whether it should have made a broader debate to get one quality document, not to slow down absolutely no jurisdiction at all, and finally at the level of the Parliamentary Assembly, all MPs on the principle of facing it, the truth is something that you have to face, as well as in medicine, so you have to deal with a patient who is on the operating table and his difficult situation. We're in trouble, our children grow up in hate, our children grow up growing up growing up, parents raising them in such a way that they have presentations of three history, it's not good because it creates the possibility of creating new conflicts, we don't have a unique history and so I want to ask Mr. Lovrinović, here's my primary reference to his amendments. Mr. Lovrinović, you are bothered here in the first paragraph of your amendments, you say you are bothered by the words – the powers of the opposing cultural narratives, you are asking to be deleted. So you say, concerned about taking advantage of differences and historical suffering, which has contributed to intolerance and violence in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Did the genocide and the joint criminal movement really lead to intolerance and violence in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Yes, Mr. Lovrinović, yes, and unfortunately in one part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, children do not know that it happened in Srebrenica genocide, and in this second part of Bosnia and Herzegovina a little larger, for a shade larger, they do not know children in one part, children who go to one school, so two schools under one roof, do not know that a joint criminal enterprise took place. My child, who is the fifth grade of elementary school, is very confused and doesn't understand, doesn't understand things and doesn't understand history and is constantly looking for new, new, new explanations and should be spoken to. And NGOs have done a great thing, but this is a document that had to be very, very, very seriously completed in the Ministry of Human Rights. In particular, Mr Lovrinović, I am surprised that you say here in the statement, you say in a sentence – regretting the lack of education on peace in the divided education system of BiH and marginalising those who are trying to break down the barriers of mistrust and fear, you are asking that the word "divided" be deleted. Mr. Lovrinović in your canton are two schools under one roof, unfortunately also in the ZE DO canton, but you as a state representative as well as I and as Mrs. Majkić and as everyone present here, we must also fight the fact that there is no segregation of children on religious and national and pain of any other basis. So, the truth must be one for my child and for your child and Mrs. Majkić and Mrs. Gasal and all the others, and I am surprised that you are asking, You who are particularly in favour of staying two schools under one roof, what the European Commission constantly reminds you of in all the reports of Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress, that in Bosnia and Herzegovina there is still an education system, and that it is a segregation of children, which reminds me of what is happening now in the United States or with migrants to separate parents from children, it is terrible. Children grow up next to each other, they don't know cultural customs, so they don't know history, they don't know what happened in this country. I do not understand from you, I cannot understand that you as President of the Commission for European Integration, who seeks to join the European Union, meet democratic European standards and principles, that you could propose such amendments, I am truly surprised and of course the SDA will not vote for these proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25752	Discussion, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25753	I thank the chairman. I remind you that we are here talking about the Peace Platform and I remind you of the history of this whole story. The Council of Ministers took note, I mean unanimously, of this Peace Platform, so all parties represented in the Council of Ministers. Prior to that, it was signed by the mayors and mayors, and more or less of all municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina from all possible parties represented by 13 at the local level. Then the Joint Committee on Human Rights, here to remind only my colleague, adopted in October last year the text of the Peace Platform as it is before us in October. And now again, I stress, the Peace Platform, and then it challenges the longest debate at this session, here I am asking the service to provide me with information on how much the debate on which the agenda has taken place at this session, I am sure that this is definitely the longest and then raises questions about the authority of the human rights minister and her ability or inability to ensure that even such documents pass through the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So, the documents that did not cause any dispute between the mayors and the mayors of the municipalities from different parties, and then she allows, the minister's permission, which, by the way, is not today, I don't know if it was when this was first considered, but definitely not today and all this, this whole debate is about her lack of authority and her inability to run this resort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25754	Denis Bećirović, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25755	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. This debate has shown that we have both good news and bad news. The Bodra news is that we have one of these points on the agenda today and that we have a chance to discuss it. The bad news is that we have, unfortunately, certain representatives who even one such noble idea, what this Peace Platform is, use it to even abuse it for some other purpose, that's not good. The promoter has even stated in the first sentences of this Platform that we will respect and respect the legal order of this country, just as one of the first sentences so that there will be no of these discussions that we have heard that someone is jeopardising some level of government regarding its competences. The promoter said he advocated improving peace, to show that we are aware of the importance of establishing peace, lasting and sustainable peace. Indeed, to whom this problem is he has a much bigger problem than the debate and adoption of such a document. I don't think it's good if any form of pre-election campaign is being led even on such issues, especially if we're listening to the guy's arguments whether or not someone has given consent to a lower level, let's stop it once and for all, this is the highest legislative body of the sovereign state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, its decisions do not depend on the will of any lower level in this country. The consultations can be held, there was time and how to carry out these consultations, and today we have the opportunity to make very clear. In essence, this debate shows our European partners, but also to the citizens and peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we seem to have two platforms in this country, one is a Peace Platform and another is a platform that is clearly promoted by some, and this is a platform for destabilising, isolation and poverty and the essence of this, however, I call on all colleagues to gain both the courage and the strength and the wisdom to adopt this unanimously today. There is no reason not to adopt this unanimously today, and we can lead a pre-election, election and any other campaign on some other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25756	Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25757	Kolega Bećirović like to say to my colleagues that this Parliament has had an opportunity during its almost four-year term, it has often had the opportunity to show very concretely how it works for the sake of peace, so that the key issues, i.e. the problems this country has on the table, and it is talking about it. In four years this Parliament has not resolved any questions concerning any area, none of the issues that we inherited in 2014 will be addressed in 2018 and the real contribution of peace is given by our concrete engagement and sitting at the table and by making decisions that are expected of us and by respecting all the participants in this dialogue. No non-governmental sector document can be signed that the country is for peace, in vain all of the documents we sign if we are not ready to work for the sake of peace, and that means a concrete contribution by solving the problems we face within the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I invite you not to be the image we make of the people, lest we worry about something, so look at the people, so it's too proselytical to say that the people fell for it. Make a concrete contribution and we sit down to agree on this, and if it is for today and late.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25758	Nikola Špirić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25759	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests. I do not dispute at all that this international organisation of the CRS, which had the most noble intentions to discuss, therefore, the Peace Platform and the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina and always the international organisations worked on whatever authority was in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but what concerns me - why did we not come to the Peace Platform on the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Why, then, but peace must come from below, behold, we all swear today, that every man should go into the worship of whom he belongs, that peace may be for him. So, I respect that the local communities are affected, and that's good, and there we have only the Commissioner's participation and not the local parliaments, the discussion of peace on the future of this country must be as wide as possible, as wide as possible. I wouldn't mind if these commissioners offered this document to the local parliaments to adopt it, I believe they would adopt it. Likewise, all levels of government... on this if the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees does not already work, too much for people to be postmen who will bring international documents into this Parliament and therefore do not be angry with our intention is to bring this initiative down from below and it is no problem for it to be adopted in this Parliament, but the way we look at everything on the surface in Bosnia and Herzegovina is an equitable example of this document. What's wrong with the chiefs who participated in this document giving to their local... what's wrong with having a debate in entity parliaments, having a discussion of people. Well, it's not like someone's going to tell someone who's not in this way he's not in favor of peace. We... I hear someone say that we are prolonging peace, not but keeping peace and there is no document that will provide peace, peace is built from below, and that is why my message and the CRS appreciate their noblest intentions, which always get a depraved political dimension within this country, so that this document goes on as it starts to debate from below, to go into verification from below. So, don't, don't lose, it's not time-limited, let the municipal parliaments say, what's wrong, let them talk about peace, I guess there's a war going on within the local communities. Let the entity parliaments discuss this document, not a rush, and let every one of this document draw out what it is obliged to do. If this is a document of the document and they don't follow any obligations of this House either, why are we adopting it? Is it from... what do we read about what our obligations are in this document? That's important, it's the core of the document, not the document as a document. I haven't heard anyone talking about it, and therefore my application, therefore, to the promoter in this case, is the Ministry just entering this document, 15 that if it already wants to break up fundamentally, is a brief document, summed up, to go from local communities to the state parliament. We'll have a full and complete story then, even if someone wants to evaluate where the neural points are, and if someone thinks today that when they adopt the document, they'll come out, so they'll say I'm for peace, those who aren't God's for destruction... so that's a children's story. And so I ask you in the interest of the effort that has been put into this document to be at the level of the task today, that this document pass through the local communities, then why the Commissioners took part. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25760	Correction of the wrong quote Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25761	Dear Chairman, I tried not to react, but this is what we heard from fellow Špirić really something that also for those who say he will not answer and that he will try to be calm, it simply does not allow them. Says the man wants to come down from the local community. Here comes the local community, so I don't know if my colleague Špirić has a problem with Milenko Avdalović, the head of Nevesinj from his party or Luka Petrović, the Secretary General of SNSD and the mayor of Trebinj or Miroslav Kraljević, also the head of the SNSD from Vlasenica, whether he has a problem with Stevanovic in Zvornik, but if you have a problem with these people, do not burden us with this. So there are at least fifteen high-ranking SNSD officials here who signed this, who are the mayors and mayors all over Republika Srpska. So you want it to come from below, here it comes from below and from your people, among other things. Four years have passed, who told you not to suggest this, do you think these people of yours are pro-American because they're involved in this? If you have a problem with that, it's not a problem for me and they are, but if you have a problem, you call in a session of party bodies and you discuss it, you change them now, you kick them out of the party, you bring in these Russianes, I guess they're good for you. So, what wasn't discussed in the entity parliament? For four years, you've been the masters of life, and lately it looks like death in Republika Srpska, why didn't you put this on the agenda? Whoever wants a thousand ways to find something to adopt, who won't have a million to explain how something can't. You doctored to explain how something couldn't, and you stopped a long time ago. to try to explain that something can be done. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25762	Correction of the wrong quote by Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25763	I thank the chairman. I will refer to several exhibitions, says counterpart Špirić more widely should or could not. I don't know if my colleague Špirić thinks we should ask both the official Zagreb and Belgrade, or HDZ to ask Zagreb what he thinks about this Platform, and SNSD to ask Belgrade, because I really have no documents from locals, so I think, which was wider and from below, comes from local communities, and even some of the authorities were wondering, so civil society, NGOs, so surely if one analysis was made to show that this document came from below and goes towards the highest legislative body. 16 says colleague Majkić, we have not adopted anything or done anything for these four years to work in peace. Yes, you've adopted excises, so many citizens are hungry that they can't even take a rifle to maybe go to war or to come to war, you've done it by adopting excises. So don't think you haven't done anything in four years, you've done a lot. I don't know a coworker Košarac guy in his exposure somehow puts the most emphasis on that American organization. Is now the problem with this text and the essence of the text or is it a problem that it is American and is not a Russian organisation, so that would be discussed. And when you look at it, because it just now arrived at my table what my colleague Lovrinović is proposing, and all of what my colleague Nermina Kapetanović has stated is a complete agreement, but here I would like to look back, as my colleague Lovrinović transfers to me that I am to abolish democracy or take away the right to democracy, and then in the latest proposal proposed by a respected colleague, Lovrinović, because in the platform he writes in the text – constitutional and other peoples, commas, citizens and religious communities. My colleague Lovrinović is upset that the other nations are constitutional and together, so he proposes to write – to all the constituent peoples and others, the comma, citizens and religious communities. So these others are Bog knows who, nor are the nations, nor are the citizens, nor do they know who they are, nor what they are, I guess he mind that now, because he is a very democratic person, he is deeply bothered that they would now be with the constituent peoples. So much for that democracy and the coup on democracy My kolega Lovrinović, I am not in favour of abolishing the right to democracy, I am in favour of abolishing your right to condition a continuous, therefore, as a minority, minority club here because you are outnumbered, not as a people but as a political club, you are constantly conditioning something, you have the support to pass on to you the rest thanks to some majority in your coalition [[the speaker is warned on time]] Clubs, I'm not and now I'm not, from your exposure somehow comes to the essence of what's your problem. [[the speaker is warned on time]] You have a problem with who's hung in the picture downstairs, so we're getting to the bottom of it, it's not a text problem, but who of the campers may have been a camper or not and whose picture is downstairs I trust Mr. Lovrinović that your party boss has a booker who was in the camp, who didn't, so check out that name you mentioned whether he was in the camp or not. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25764	Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25765	Well, I'll be brief, I had really sincere intentions, I didn't expect a colleague of Saša Magazinović to talk to me like this, I thought he'd take my suggestions well on purpose. I have no problem with any local community chief was he SNSD's, was SDS's, was HDZ's, either from any political party why I would have a problem, but it's not what the chief thinks, what the local parliament thinks if it was the principle, then they could have ended up passing this on to you and you would adopt it from the State Parliament as Saša Magazinović and send it to the Council of Ministers to verify it by Denis Zvizdić or the College of Parliamentary Assembly. I'm talking about the width of the dimension that this project lowers to the lowest possible instance, that is to go from the bottom up. If there's no time, if there's a rush, I need to be explained why it's a rush. But I don't think that these people should be changed either, I respect their good intentions, it's not what Denis Zvizdić thinks, what the Council of Ministers thinks, it's not what the College thinks, what this Parliament thinks, it's not what the head of the municipality thinks and what Parliament thinks, it's not the same. But you're, you know, no more Stalinism, democracy is something else 17, and don't be afraid for the SNSD score, we'll be keeping you in opposition for a long time, because you're neither social Democrats nor national Democrats, nor me, and I don't know what you are, either male or female. So I guess the citizens recognize that, don't worry about the result in Republika Srpska, it'll be democratic for you, and whoever wins, I'll congratulate him, and I don't have that kind of complex at all, but let's talk as friends. Why, I ask you now – why does it bother you that all these 40 commissioners have offered this document to their local community to adopt? What's wrong with that? _________(?) Well, they already did... [[no microphone turned on]] Well, they didn't find me, so they didn't. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25769	Mr. Špirić has already passed a minute over a certain
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25770	I'm sorry, but there are NGOs who manage you, you answer to them, not to the citizens, so in the election and you go through the way you go, but that's when you want the debate here, and I'll answer you the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25771	Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25772	First of all, fellow Špirić, don't get excited at your age, it's not recommended. When you talk about Stalinism, I believe that you are someone who can talk about it because among other things you were probably presents and that direction. At a time when you're probably in people like Staljin saw his idol, I wasn't even born, and you're free to talk about it, evacuate your memories, but I don't want to participate. I am not so sure about democracy and democracy that you are a relevant person to speak of, since you were one of those who were advocates to abolish supervision, or attempt to introduce more precise and thorough supervision of the electoral process. So, you're one of those who's bothered to control voters, put up surveillance cameras, and then talk about democracy afterwards, so those two aren't compatible. I don't really care about relationships within the SNSD, but I'm telling you honestly, I'm absolutely not interested. Also, as anyone will pass the elections, you, neither I, but the citizens and they will vote, as they voted for the SNSD chiefs who won and came to the opportunity to sign this document that you will not sign. So, these people who have signed and come from the SNSD, they've been out of line two years ago, you're just going to make out, but I still don't understand why you're against this, which is a particular reason, this is all you've listed so far, so I don't know if my Emil, who's six years old, would have passed the story, let us know what's the particular reason and that we're going to go to the vote and we're ending this story.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25773	Nikola Špirić, non-compliance with the established agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25774	Since we're not following the agenda, I think it's wise to go to the vote... it'll be October 05th and then me and... It's going to be 07th, and then we're going to weigh in. But as far as this Stalinism is concerned, the public is working and not working for you who says you weren't even born, I don't know if you were born today, because these discussions and they're not at the level of the parliamentarians you're leading in this House, my whole family still has scars on the back of Stalinism, so tie me up as a supporter of Stalinism is degutant, but at least I had to ask that, but what's a problem in this country that we don't have human communication as people to share with each other and trouble from the past, and let alone build the future of this country. It's a waste of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25775	Mr. Špirić, please. NICOLA
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25776	You're on the verge of political events here in the Federation...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25777	Mr. Špirić, Nikola
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25778	I'm afraid they won't be out of hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25779	Please do not abuse the non-restraint of NICOL
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25780	19 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25781	So I understand, I'm telling everyone, I'm not telling you now, I'm asking you not to abuse that institute. Saša Magazinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25782	So, Mr Špirić has injured the Rules of Procedure, which you have just as chairman, and I believe that someone who chaired this dom, has performed the most significant functions both in Parliament and in the Council of Ministers, should not allow himself, even at the end of his career, to descend this low in the discussions he has led. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25783	I assume you're pulling this one now. Nikola Lovrinović, however, is already your third correction to the wrong quote, Mr Lovrinović, so you have no right to this one. Non-compliance with the established agenda now. Come on, and please stick to that point.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25784	So as Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil held out, she did not talk about what was on the agenda but, therefore, expressed her disrespect for the Croatian people's will and hatred for their political will that was given to us and I remain in that Mrs. Maja Gasal-The Vražalica is not a Democrats, so she would prefer that we have the views she wants, so these are political attitudes and we express them clearly and loudly. Mrs. Kapetanović, who did not follow the agenda, would say that what she considers a division for me is right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25785	Thank you. Nermina Kapetanović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25786	I kept my agenda to Mr. Lovrinović, because I was discussing your proposal to change the Peace Platform, how I didn't stick to the agenda, I didn't talk about anything else, absolutely. And secondly, secondly, I say again to the chairman, there is now a very difficult qualification at the expense of Mrs. Gasal, that she hates the Croatian people of women who plead as Hrvatica, and I don't really know what kind of situation we are in, not before the elections, for a total of four years, we, you and they, are the only ones, as a whole, we representatives of Bosnian Herzegovina citizens. So don't make such claims, I'd like to really make that Codex live in full capacity and start punishing 20 MPs. Telling MPs that he hates the Croatian people he represents, that's terrible. I've been holding on, and I've been taking care of Nikola Lovrinović. [[no microphone turned on]] Come on, please, Mr. Lovrinović and Nikola LOVRINOVIĆ. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25789	Please, please, Nermina.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25790	Let's talk about this Peace Platform Nikola Lovrinović [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25791	Mr. Lovrinović, don't throw it out of place, let it finish and come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25792	Well can't Mr. Chairman, can't...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25793	Please, please, at the request of the Vice-President, Borjana Krišto, a half-hour break on behalf of the HDZ Club. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats so we can continue our work. Next, non-compliance with the established agenda, Mirsad Đonlagić. He's not in the O.R. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25795	The correction refers to my colleague Lovrinović, so when he answered and I really ask you, I appreciate it when you chair, but, behold, we had cases where someone turned off the microphone so they couldn't address it, it was the chairperson Krišto in, when I was concerned and when my colleague Šepić was concerned about where his right of speech was taken from him by the end of the session when it was a marathon session of a set of excise laws. So there are ways to sanction those who really expose and insult MPs and MPs. I think we have a code of conduct, and I'm asking you to respect that. On the other hand, to sanction those who appear because of not keeping the agenda, but they appear to say their replicas. So, as my colleague Lovrinović pointed out in his non-compliance with the agenda that I did not talk about what is on the agenda, if you followed Mr Lovrinović, I referred to the correction of the wrong allegations of certain colleagues among whom you were. So, you, here, I took a stenogram, not talking about what's on the agenda, but, therefore, expressed her disrespect for the Croatian people's will and hatred for his political will that was given to us. And I'm staying on that Mrs. Gasal-The Vražalica is not a Democrats, so she'd rather we have the attitudes she wants. If I were to correct you to my colleague Lovrinović, I would never be in my life if you had attitudes like me, because then we would all be the same. So I just appreciate that you and I are not the same because so the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the citizens, can see who is what, so of course, according to that and express their will in the elections. On the other hand, I can never be like you because I've been in politics for four years, you've been doing your whole life the way you do, that you've even experienced that you and the high representative sanction you so that you can't do politics for a while. So, I am certainly a Democrats, I am very much in favour of the respect of the Croatian people and every other people and of all citizens and citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you, with your attitudes, the lyres of hate, throws away my colleague Kapetanović, you are certainly showing one dose of hatred towards certain MPs. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25796	Chairman of the dom, Mr. Mladen Bosić, is correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25797	I agree with you, Mrs. Gasall-Gasal-Vražalica, that I don't interrupt people when I'm supposed to interrupt, because there's really a lot of it. I'm trying to appeal that it's not working, that in a way, in a brief discussion, every interruption is causing additional tension, but I think in this discussion, there is now a multi-party breach of that threshold even of what is possible to tolerate, and I want to warn you that this is about discussion, about the Peace Platform. If a discussion about the Peace Platform is causing so many negative emotions and so many hard words, what if someone had offered a platform for conflict? Let's get down to it, get down to normal human discussion because there's a lot of hard words, and I'll repeat, all evil starts usually from the hard words, and we've seen it. If anyone saw it, we looked out for what the hard words meant and what the consequences were afterwards. I too had the opinion that this Parliament was sticking to some frameworks that it would not come out of because much more difficult words would be in other parliaments with people who did not have war and did not fight among themselves, so they did not know what heavy words meant, and we saw it before the war in those congregations. For us, though, the heavy words were what the other said, and we all remember what the other said. So I'm asking you to bring this down to normal, no matter what the pre-election time is and what probably affects this atmosphere. Here, I used this to say, although perhaps I could say it as Parliament's chairman. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25798	22 Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25799	Thank you. Looks like there's been an unnecessary storm over a lot of things here. I really don't see, I appreciate, much of what he said here, dear colleague Magazinović, I really don't understand why, I heard from my colleague, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, and from my colleague Magazinović, that they disputed to declare entity institutions about this. If I were them, I would support this. Be careful, for the first time, you have received from a Serbian political party from Republika Srpska to propose a conclusion that this Parliament orders entity parliaments. That's the conclusion I expected him to be welcomed. I don't know what would have happened if our club had proposed it. So, yes, we believe that we should declare entity parliaments and entity governments, but not in a way that commands them, because this Parliament cannot order entity parliaments and that is the principle that we have always represented. We have our parliamentary circles in the National Assembly, here, I promise on behalf of all the clubs of the Alliance for Change and the Party of Democratic Progress and the Serbian Democratic Party and the NDP that we will support every initiative to discuss this in the National Assembly, but we cannot support this Parliament ordering the National Assembly what to do as requested by the SNSD Club. But here, obviously, some transformations in attitudes are experiencing, and today even from those who announced a referendum this year on the secession of Republika Srpska, we heard that the government was determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25800	Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25801	My correction of the wrong allegation refers to the finding, that is, what Aleksandra Pandurević said that the SNSD Club is asking to adopt the conclusion that this Parliament orders entity parliaments and governments to declare something. I now have to ask here first, it seems to me that Aleksandra Pandurević did not listen to others, but she did not listen to what she was saying before, and I would really like any of her colleagues to say if she had heard or had a conclusion that the SNSD had submitted and asked for Parliament to make a statement about him? Mrs. Pandurević, time has passed, and you've had the time you've had in this previous term since you've been the government here in Sarajevo with your partners to protect the interests, or attitudes of the institutions of Republika Srpska from which you come. For the past three and a half years, here, almost four years, everything you've been doing here as the Alliance for Change here, you've worked against Republika Srpska, against the National Assembly, against the government of Republika Srpska and its legitimate representatives. So, don't use these three months before the elections to court voters and think that such a one-time untrue finding, that the SNSD Club is, is looking for such a conclusion to be adopted, that you will go to the voters and that the voters from Republika Srpska will vote for you for it. What they think about you and how they appreciate your work and actions in this Parliament and in the Council of Ministers you will see on October 7th when you go to the elections, and they are very much talking about the polls that have been done, carried out, even those you ordered where the general conclusion that the SDS today is a disaster in Republika Srpska and that you will certainly not be the one who is fortunate for the citizens of Republika Srpska, but also the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina because you have done a lot wrong for others, not only for the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25802	Correction of the wrong..., no, non-compliance with the established agenda, Zaim Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25803	The Honored Chairman, the agenda point is – Information on the PRO-Future project, etc., is not an election, not a mutual orientation towards who is as popular or as not popular, are not etc. I ask you, if you can return your authority to today's session. These steps, then you must allow all of us, are for the purpose of a pre-election campaign that has not yet started, or allow us all to talk, so I will allow BPS Sefer Halilović as a state-run party, and start. I don't think this makes any sense anymore, I hope you'll direct the discussion and the debaters who turn away from what's called the agenda, interrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25804	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Well, I tried, Mr. Backović, here, and I was just discussing it in that sense. So thank you for your good discussion and your well-intentioned proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25805	Today we have heard here that someone is doing something against Republika Srpska and the Union for Change of Citizens, etc., and before that we heard a letter from the SNSD Club about... I don't think there's any weightier, though, she's in Louis XIV's Luj - the state, it's me. What the citizens of Republika Srpska think clearly say in Krajina Square, they have made clear their protests against fuel collection, and how well the government did best show yesterday's session of the National Assembly, where SNSD candidate Mrs Cvijanović was not allowed to appear not to answer parliamentary questions. And yes, let me say, last session, when we postponed this discussion, we had this point 20 days ago. In the meantime, I want to be healthy, and to say that Banja Luka, that is, the mayor of Banja Luka, Mr Igor Radojičić, supported this platform and signed this Peace Platform, and now I understand why these colleagues are against it. So this is within the SNSD's party reckoning obviously with Mr. Radojičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25806	Mensura Beganović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25807	Thank you, Chairman. I say hello to those present. My replica is to Mrs. Marković Milica, that there is no such proposal that this House can order entity parliaments to consider and give their position on the proposed Peace Platform. The conclusion we got, I don't know if it was signed by a colleague Košarac because it doesn't say on behalf of which club, and the signature according to how I see it, how I can decrypt it seems to me that it could be a colleague of Košarac where he says – The predstavnički of Representatives extends the information statement, the project PRO-Future and the Peace Platform until the procedure is implemented both in entity competent institutions and gets the appropriate opinion, their opinion. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25808	Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25809	Well, I'm really surprised to hear from the SDS Club today how much they care about what's going on, as the National Assembly says, the government of Republika Srpska in the previous four years. I wonder if it's the SDS that was, who's still in power here at the Council of Ministers today, whether it's that SDS, or if it's some other SDS that's saying what he's saying today. So, what she said was that the correction of the wrong allegations by Republika Srpska Prime Minister Mrs. Cijanović was not supposed to appear in the National Assembly yesterday because she was afraid to answer parliamentary questions was actually completely false and incorrect because, above all, Mrs. Cvijanović was a serious politician and a serious prime minister and if Bog has since October when the voters came to the elections she will be the president of Republika Srpska. Of course, as a serious politician and prime minister, she must not allow herself and will not allow herself to come to the National Assembly and answer the nonsense that comes as questions from the SDS. So, she, it's below her level and she won't be exposed to it at all, to such inconveniences. And as for the intra-party reckoning within the SNSD, although Aleksandra Pandurević is not here, but I know she'll hear it, so she doesn't have to worry at all about what's going on in SNSD in so much trouble in Bratunc where she comes from. So, the head of her party, the president of the SDS in Bratunc, left both the SDS and their politics a month ago, and their ideology and everything, and came to the SNSD. So that says how much the influence of Aleksandra Pandurević as vice president of the SDS is on the environment in which she lives.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25810	Mrs. Marković, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25811	Don't tell me, Mrs. Marković, she's asking me what's going on here at SNSD, so let her worry about what's going on in the SDS.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25812	Well, I know, but this isn't a pre-election TV show.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25813	In the SDS, what's going on, but as much as she's taking care of it, she's got some things going wrong in the SDS, she can't take care of herself, and she can't make it right because it's gone too far because of the behavior you've had as a party in the past four years.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25814	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25815	About these flyers, it's completely wrong information, they're starting with the hooves, and that's when we get pigeons, and we have, they've been here in this room people who have been growing them, high-flighters and flyers. They fly high, but when they fall and they break and they never take off again. 25 It was Beriz Belkić, he was raising pigeons, and today in Praca he grows them, and these doves do not have an entity barrier, but fly through both the Republic of Serbia and through the Federation. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? Correction of the wrong quote. I didn't allow that discussion, but it's not only that, but we've got the shirt and the deer on the lower levels and they're flying all over the place. If that's what this House is about, she's giving us all faith. We should really start dealing with citizens and this country. We're dealing with who's some kind of entity politician. We're the state parliament. Instead of having us here, here, we have two ministers, so we have one deputy from the Department of Security, so we have the Central Election, so we have a lot of guests, so we have education here that's a disaster, and instead of dealing with serious things, we're dealing with very serious ones that are just being promoted, I don't know who and the preparation for getting any bigger, as they say, treasures because we have richer people than biti Gejts. Our people were sent rich, one on one side to a million inhabitants. Another 500,000, 600,000 thirds per million and a half. [[the speaker is warned on time]] When you divide their wealth by population and multiply by seven billion in the world, they're all richer than Bill Gejts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25817	Hanka Vajzović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25818	Thank you, Chairman. I warmly welcome all present. In fact, it's not the correcting of the wrong quote, it's the reaction to a strange allegation. With the appeal to return to the agenda points, I somehow had to underline, Mrs Marković said seriously, that Mrs Željka Cvijanović is a serious politician who will not come to the Assembly to answer to the MPs because she will not be exposed to the inconveniences. So this is the first time I've heard it work anywhere, so there's only one reaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25819	Yeah, yeah, that's how it works. Sadik Ahmetović, discussion. Milica Marković, non-compliance with the established agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25820	Mrs. Vejzović, you didn't listen well. So, to respond to the nonsense that comes from the SDS and not be exposed to such inconveniences that it as a serious politician responds to nonsense. And listen a little better and write when someone's talking. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25821	Yeah, what are you gonna do? Sadik Ahmetović, discussion. Hanka Vajzović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25822	Thank you very much. But isn't that the same thing, that he won't come and answer because he thinks it's nonsense? Let her be skilled enough to respond to stupidity, what else does she do if she's a prime minister?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25823	Sadik Ahmetović, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25824	Honored chairman, respected colleagues, colleagues, ministers. Last time I discussed this item on the agenda, because I felt that this document should be adopted in this House, but apparently it came into disrepute in this House and that the campaign for the next elections has been largely launched, and probably the result of the approximation of October is this situation that we have and the discussions that we have today. It is obvious that this Peace Platform has brought unrest between parliamentarians and this Parliament, and I am sure that in the vast part of Bosnia and Herzegovina where I move, citizens need this Platform less. This platform needs us here in this room and it would be good, given all these discussions today if this was a closed session because we're not sending a good message. I think that we should do everything possible to adopt this platform unanimously in Parliament and given its message and in view of all of this today's discussions, and since Borjana Krišto, Martin Raguž, Diana Zelenika, Senad Šepić, Mirsad Đonlagić, Denis Bećirović, Maja Gasal, Lazar Prodanović, Mladen Bosić is no longer clear to me today. I propose that these eight, nine colleagues from Parliament, together with the College, together with the motion to sit before the vote and agree that this, given that there are representatives from all parties here, sit down and agree on how to find a mechanism for this platform to be adopted unanimously in Parliament. Any other vote or vote that Parliament will share is not a good message. I think that only a unanimous vote, so here today on this document sends the best message here, and since, as I have already said and read that there are colleagues I appreciate, who can find solutions in this Advisory Committee of the project that before the vote, there will probably be pauses, you find opportunities and mechanisms that eventually this Parliament will vote whole, all of us, to vote, all of us, for this platform. Because I'm afraid that this unrest that I said, which was produced here, will be brought down in this difficult pre-election time among the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are certainly doing more damage than good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25825	Mensura Beganović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25826	I thank the chairman. 27 May someone explain to me why this must be adopted unanimously? Why does this platform have to be adopted unanimously? He doesn't have to. Let those who want to vote in favour vote in favour and let those who want to vote in favour and that will be the true state of affairs in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why are we closing our eyes in front of that?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25827	Debate, Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25828	Good afternoon, everyone. Well, I'll put one of my business concerns forward here. How does the point bearing the title – Information on the PRO-Future Project and the Peace Platform mean that we declare ourselves here on this document? But here, on the side of that, if it means okay, what's seemingly incredible and contradictory, and in this at least our society, it's a regular phenomenon that the discussion of the Peace Platform, in general, always causes an enormous amount of evil blood, intolerance and unrest, and that's what we have here today. And why is that? Because, here, some colleagues have tried to read this document carefully and to warn that there may be details, a structure that this document, in some ways contaminating and saying that it might be better, that the document would be more consistent that its preamble does not contain a very vague formulation, the supremacy of cultural narratives. Whatever that means, it's vague and casual and somewhat politically colored. When it's said to be observed with... a lack of alternative interpretations of history, whatever the alternative interpretation of history means, it's a vague, casual and dangerous formulation. We have often come across the interpretation of history here and this particular interpretation is born intolerant. And I really believe that this document would be better without that vague and flat-rate formulation and that's what I'm saying. The shared education system is a constitutional category in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as in a number of European countries, as in Germany, as in the Scandinavian countries, only it is a high level of democracy in Scandinavian countries, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina is interpreted as being completely different. And indeed, I agree with that part of the story when it's said that these formulations are somewhat, that this document would really be better, more neutral, without these formulations because the interpretation of history, the educational system, the cultural narratives are giving birth between us different thoughts, different reactions, different interpretations as it says here, and for peace and peace I hold that at least there we have a consensus and we could have a consensus about the document. We could adopt this document in this House without much debate if it is already to be adopted as part of a point called information without much debate and peaceful Bosnia, as they say, as it was done in the Council of Ministers, as they have done, as has been done by a number of municipal chiefs from all the political parties, unambiguously signing them. What they then signed, of course, was their entry into the document completely and, uh, the way it was done at all. I hold that the debate on this document is of the utmost importance to this House. This is the House where we discuss the documents that we bring, that come to us in any way, even this way. The discussion of peace I believe should have been in a peaceful and tolerated atmosphere, and it's not and it's bad. I believe that what was tried about this document and that if we had a constructive debate would be the best contribution to this document adopted by us here at any time and in any way. And that would be what it is, which would be for this document good. We're having this debate, to use that word again, a little contaminating all of this that we're going to do further with this document, and that's not good. I believe that it is better to discuss this document here to break up and try to find common language around it 28 on the trail of proposals and conclusions that we have already had so that again what is about it in this House, in this House, it is said to be a constructive contribution to the document itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25829	Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25830	I thank the chairman. I don't think it's constructive to interrupt the debate or delay this agony because then they suffer laws, they suffer other things, and this is something we've been discussing for the two sessions in a row. I remind you that both last time and this time we spent most of our time on this point previously adopted by the Council of Ministers and then twice by the Joint Commission for Human Rights. Well, we have a situation here today that the resolute minister is not here, and now fellow Ahmetović has mentioned that some MPs need to gather, whether or not the club chiefs know who he already thought, so there is some agreement, and there is no person responsible for this, Minister Borovac. And now, you see, there's a foreign minister that's never been there, but Minister Borovac is someone who literally holds a candle here, ensures the presence of the Council of Ministers from the session in session and doesn't appear at this point in the agenda, uh, I think she's completely running away from her responsibility for this issue, and I think it's absolutely unacceptable to see such a run from responsibility at this House. I recall that the Rules of Procedure not only confers powers but also imposes an obligation on a member of the Council of Ministers, i.e. a proposing act to take part in the debate whenever it deems it necessary. Today would be a useful intervention for Minister Borovac. I do not dispute that there is a deputy minister, that the form has been fulfilled, that we have a representative of the proposings, but I am not talking about form here, but I am talking about political responsibility, and Minister Borovac has shown that she does not know what political responsibility is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25831	Thank you. Just to point out that the minister sent a memo that she was prevented from being and that Deputy Ćosić is present here. _________(?) Jović. Jović, I apologize. Safer Demirović, discussion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25834	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome you and everyone present and in the hall. I would like to remind all of us here that this is about information on a single project and that this information that is to be submitted here, what has been done, has caused such heated debates as we have already had on this Parliament for the second time, perhaps the most heated discussions, the most difficult discussions, with very difficult qualifications, perhaps in our overall mandate, which is completely incomprehensible to me, that this Information can cause such reactions. Then I am not surprised that this Parliament and this country are unable to take so much money from the European Union, which the European Union is offering us and asking us to take, and we simply, we do not have the willingness, nor do we have the will, but most likely neither knowledge nor escape from openly saying what this is about. So, same here, I don't know what the problem is that this information, as information, is accepted. What's so controversial about that? And I suggest that you also control the debate, direct the debate, channel it exactly as this item of the agenda is addressed without the individual callings that are present here all the time as the most rigid, rigid pre-election set and, to tell you the truth, I don't even care about the discussions that are being held about individual entities who do what they do, but simply have a point of the agenda that we should plead exactly the way it's defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25835	So, just to remind you, let me remind you that the Joint Committee on Human Rights has been considering this, this Information and proposing to the House of Representatives to adopt the Platform. Safer Demirović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25836	I thank the Honorable Chairman and I welcome, of course, you and all those present and here after these to a lesser or greater extent of pre-election discussions, I would like to just say briefly about this material, that it is a pleasure to me and certainly that I will support this platform and of course support everything that aphirms, which develops, builds peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, given that peace in our country has no alternative and no matter where it comes from, and for me, it is a special pleasure to represent what has come from mayors and mayors from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I am convinced that those people who certainly have a better connection and a better relationship with our citizens than we do. And I'm sorry, here, today you can see how much we've actually lost that feeling and how this relationship is driven by some secondary or territorial interests actually with our citizens about what our citizens are really interested in. So I'll support this platform anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25837	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the 15th agenda. 30 We're going to the 16th point, Ad. 16. Information on the implementation of the Emergency Action Plan in the realisation of activities related to the migrant crisis, proposed points: Borjana Krišto, Nikola Lovrinović and Predrag Kožul, issue: 01-50-1115/18 since 30.05.2018 This point is, this point was included in the agenda in the first part of the session by the House's decision, proposing that a representative of the Council of Ministers provide oral information on this subject. I'm opening a debate. Predrag Kožul, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25839	Okay, here's the first thing I'm going to remind you of is the history of this or similar point in this House in the last three sessions. So, at the 61st session, in the middle of last month, we had a agenda point – Information on the implementation of the Emergency Action Plan and the implementation of the activities listed in the Information on BiH's evaluations and possibilities on the issue of the refugee crisis in the region. Then we took that item off the agenda because this information in writing, which we had, was completely inaccurate, was old, and things went further. We have concluded that the Council of Ministers has prepared comprehensive information on the current situation in this area and we have been waiting for this document. In the meantime, things were going their own way, the situation in this part was complicated, and we didn't have that information, so at the last session, we suggested this agenda point that we still discuss it in order to reach certain conclusions and update this topic, because it is present in the whole country except this Parliament. Saću would like to say that, here, if there is a topic of serious or trouble in which this country has been fortunate, and also very little happiness in the last few years, I don't know how many years, it's a question of the migrant crisis in Europe, the Mediterranean, especially in Southeast Europe, it's a serious problem that's been going on for about three years and in its first phase, almost two years, our country has been around, and around us has been happening. It didn't take a lot of sense to assess that it wasn't a permanent category and that it would come to us. But this time we bought while these migrants were passing other routes was supposed to serve that this country in one thing was very serious and high-quality and well prepared for the situation when the crisis came and it came. And are we ready? We had time and capacity, if there wasn't enough capacity, we had time to secure them. And I remind you, the Foreign Affairs Service has 230 employees, the Ministry of Security about 200, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection 789, that we have read or something else, the Border Police probably around 2.5 thousand and that I do not list further agencies that exist at different levels, and they are competent to deal with this, this topic or these problems. And what did we have in spring, what do we have right now or what we had a month or two ago in the state? The collapse of the system, the decomposition of the system on migrants and refugees, and based on official data only several thousand refugees, official and unofficial data differed. And in a situation where we have this decomposition system, and we haven't been well prepared because all these bodies and services are being prepared in the walk, it comes to, what comes to, the decomposition of the system at the Ministry of Security and the minister is actually behind a pay phone from which he hysterizes, accuses and threatens both the SIPA and the D.A., based on which jurisdiction, on which I don't know. We have similar things in different agencies, we have a problem not implementing existing laws in this segment, not implementing 31 of its provisions, we have a problem that institutions, hopefully, are preparing themselves quickly and well for this, too late, because the problem we have, the problem is serious and the problem will grow. In order not to overcomplicate and paralyze this subject, we cannot discuss it properly today, because we do not have quality available information, we do not have one report on the current data situation on this subject, and we have asked for the conclusions of this House to the Council of Ministers. So, since we're proposing this point, with it we're going to propose a small set of conclusions, I'm going to, and there's no time just to share them and not to read them, they're focused on getting comprehensive information on this subject and in the operational part and on all the numbers, and in the safety part of the information, and that information written, relevant, quality, if it's quality preparation, we're talking at the next 64th session, the proposal is this House, and that session is, I remind you, scheduled to start next month. It is of course important that we get quality information and that we, like this Parliament, are included in the events on this subject. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to share these conclusions, and here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25840	You suggest that there be another debate on this topic at the next session
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25841	Here's what we're going to do. We're going to divide the conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25842	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25843	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25844	Now, how about we stop the debate or keep going?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25845	No, no, Mladen man.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25846	to be now, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25847	Why did he interrupt...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25848	Senad Šepić debate, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25849	Mr. Chairman, this is a really big question on the ground, and I've recently been to Bihac, in Krajina, so I went directly to these, these places where I'm staying right now, most of these migrants in BiH, so the situation is really, really difficult. So we have one other than that someone, as you would say, so this problem with the accommodation of these people, we have a broader kind of social, and also a political problem that is being created in these environments where 32 are currently mostly staying at this point. I asked for a debate at the beginning of the year and asked for a discussion and I sought some sort of measure and some kind of action that the competent institutions should take to avoid such problems. Now at this point, 2/3 of the total number of people, migrants in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are located in the space of the UN-San canton. Recently, police, when they searched these facilities, found a lot of cold weapons, while one of them was also fighting where one of these migrants was killed. I don't know how many people who run the country, the institutions of the state, and this isn't a question that can solve any canton, not even an entity, municipalities that don't speak, so this is really a question that the state has to answer. I'm not sure how many people have any idea where we are right now and where it can further escalate, so it's not for the first time that when there's a big problem that we're trying to put out, uh, the fires, but right now we have to have this direct action and it's called, the answer and today the direct commitment of the institutions to do something concrete. I also understand the suggestions that my colleague, colleague Kožul, mentioned, but that is something that in the next steps can only be some upgrade to some request that we need to make today, a binding request that we need to make to the Council of Ministers, the institutions of the state to respond in this regard. I was recently in Berlin, and I met with officials in Germany, and in conversations, when we mentioned this issue, people said they had sent all the Western Balkan countries letters that asked them to deliver some strategies, plans for a possible migrant crisis that could occur in their countries. According to what I received in Berlin, I was told that all other countries responded and delivered concrete plans, that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina never responded to the memos. So, and it's about the funds that Europe, Germany, the European Union planned for cases like this, because they knew in time that this would be a huge problem. That is why I propose today's conclusion, so that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives, obliges the Council of Ministers to immediately, so we have no space here, we have information, we have a situation on the ground, we have a problem, so immediately in co-operation with the competent levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina to establish a state plan and state response and measures for an overall and comprehensive action to address the migration crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I said earlier, this is not a question of the local community, nor Kladuce, or Bihaća, or Hadzic, or Mostar, or Livna, or any other municipality, but we as Parliament today must oblige the Council of Ministers to make this urgent, therefore, and I know that there and Minister Mektić was very active there, but other ministers, too, people are trying to do something, but that we are also strengthening them in this sense, to make them bound, to give them that kind of, to say, the strength that people can do, but that simply and they realize there is no time left for us to make plans for some next session which we do not know is being held and whether any next session of Parliament will be held at all. So I'm asking you in this sense to react in this way and so we send a message that, here, we're getting involved from this level, although I repeat, it's pretty late, but here we are giving our answer and giving some kind of a reaction to what we can do at this point. I will also write this conclusion in writing and expect you to support this conclusion in that sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25850	So as far as I know, the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees should be the resolutions that are in this area, I don't know if Minister Mektić wants or not 33 knows who to give a review or continue the discussion if he doesn't. If you can give a brief summary of the situation, it may be easier to direct the discussion later.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25851	Good afternoon, all of you, honourable MPs, respected presidency working, chairing. When it comes to these migrations, I can say that they are, in their character, quite different from those that took place in 2015, that was when it was a massive inflow and literally states were opening their borders, accepting these migrants, transferring them to their exits, other countries accepting them, etc. etc. There is no open border now, borders are closed now, and now it is illegal migration, illegal migration, and the problem is that these migrations move mostly from Greece, part of them go through Bulgaria, Serbia to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the other part goes from Greece to Albania, across Montenegro, from Montenegro to one part Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the other they go directly from Montenegro to Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is not a problem that happens only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is a problem on the entire route. I was in Brussels yesterday, talking at the conference, at the meeting, the interior minister of the Republic of Serbia said according to their assessment there are now about 6,000 migrants in Serbia, in the Republic of Serbia. We have somewhere, I estimate, about 2.5 thousand. This year, it entered, according to our assessment, and registered about 6,000 migrants, so somewhere around 4,000 migrants came out of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We can't even stop these migrations, nor will they be able to, in future times they won't, I was at a meeting in Brussels yesterday, I repeat again, these migrations will last an even longer period of time. Unfortunately, but that's right. I suggested we meet yesterday at one point on this Balkan route and we all focus on that point, to close it, but obviously it cannot achieve such unity. Everyone should work on their own strengthening the border and stop the border. It's not true that the Foreign Affairs Service has so many people, it's systematic, it's 60% complete. Of the 2.5 thousand border police officers, 500 officers are missing. No agency has a capacity of over 65%. What are our capacities, how can we be more efficient? Now we're asking you to give an additional number, hire Greek cops, uh, no funds, no money, with what. Now I've held a donor conference here and asked representatives of the international community and the embassy to help us. Well, we don't have, we don't have the basic resources to send here, we're regrouping cops, we're sending a part of the Police Coordination Directorate and the SIPA to the border to help the border police. As of today, the Republika Srpska MUP is being introduced with 70-80 police officers, the Brcko District police are entering, I don't have as soon as I pay for the daily bills, I don't have as soon as I pay for the accommodations, please the foreign embassies here to pay. So what, what capacity do we fight for? So we can talk about this problem, it's a migrant crisis that Bosnia and Herzegovina can't stop, but we can try to create all the material assumptions and all the other capacities to create to manage this process. So, when they come in, first of all, to work on protecting the border, to get as few as possible, and then when they get in, we can secure the humanitarian aspect of this crisis. We have plans, we made a plan in 2015, when that crisis was, but now we have a plan for this crisis, but no one fairs our plan. Yesterday, the City Council in the Great Claudius concluded that it would not, that it would not be the center of the Great Claudius. A biaic doesn't want to be a center in the Great Claudium, in Bihac. What is it worth to us from our plans, what do we do now, how do we honor our plans? We've brought to the Council of Ministers, established emergency measures, established a plan, but we can't implement that plan. There's a lot of political disinformation, speculation and campaigns, that's, that's all I've heard here about this migrant crisis it's amazing, it's calculated from some eleven locations in Bosnia and Herzegovina to which these migrants will settle, etc. That asylum is given and that the national structure is changed, etc. etc. would not comment, no asylum has been granted to any person in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor do they want asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they just want to go. But don't, uh, yes, 34 yes, I won't be a part of it, or I'm interested in someone's political campaign based on these migrations, we're trying, we're working, we've found an object in Agrommertsov in the Great Claudia, I don't know how we're going to solve this problem with the Municipal Council up there, we've got funds financially provided by international donors, we've found this other facility here in Sarajevo, in Hadzic, we've got the funds provided by international donors, but we can't get into the possession of these objects, we can't get into these facilities. These facilities would fully meet our needs. Furthermore, when it comes to political connotations, let me tell you, this is what we are talking about, and we have talked a lot about at the Council of Ministers' session, who is carrying the burden of this migrant crisis and how the burden of this migrant crisis is borne. It's political speculation, I say again, I don't care, I know the problem is that I insisted that it go to Salakovac. In Salakovec, the state institution is down there for the accommodation of refugees, and I insisted. Whoever made the problem, that's the thing on the D.A.'s office, let the D.A. handle his, that, that question and that problem. If he has the criminal responsibilities of Dragan, the ministers, which these people are sent to Salakovac so insist on that criminal responsibility. The least of the problems are criminal charges and I'm being prosecuted and I'm carrying that responsibility. And then the matter of schedules was raised, the political question of how the burden would be borne. But I will return to you now and in 2015 when we expected migration from Serbia, thousands, tens of thousands of migrants passed daily, and when we determined that the reception centre would be in Bijeljina and for that we found space, some old tobacco factory, brought electricity, infrastructure, water and so on, and so on, and so on, then no one asked how to bear the burden of this crisis politically. Well, come on, it can't, let's have this crisis that we don't have any responsibility for, no responsibility, that's just been imposed on us and that's going to last for years, I assure you. Let me see, help us get to capacity, so tell us if we can hire 300 border police officers. Here, I guarantee we'll cut the migration by 50%. We can't, because we can't get the stamps. Let us buy the necessary number of vehicles, thermal cameras, radar, etc. etc. We'll reduce migration, stop. We can't win. So we can talk here as much as we want, we can blame whoever we want, I only agree to correct remarks that are not, have no political background and political character, no one's campaign interests me. Let's create capacities, let's find, find resources here, etc. and to equip our Border Police, our services and I guarantee that we will solve this problem, keep it under absolute control, that it will not be known at all that there is such a problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but there is no. So you know how far the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers has set aside for the migrant crisis? The other day we made a decision of 75,000 marks. And do you know how much the daily needs of this crisis cost? So go ahead and do what. So I have no intention at all to suggest to you, nor to tell you what I think I should do, but people, let's define ourselves, let's see, give us the capacity, so we can't, we don't, we have one normal situation, from a normal situation when we have 500 border police officers less and when we have in the Foreign Office, don't speak by the regulations as planned, ask how full these institutions are, and now that we have one extraordinary situation nothing changes. Now, we've been counting, the Republika Srpska MUP has introduced 60 police officers to work together with the Border Police, the diaries, the accommodations, the nutrition of those people a day, so we don't have the stamps, so what do we fight for? Everything else is a story for me, give us resources, give us capacities, give us resources and then ask for responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25852	Thank you. 35 Milica Marković reported that she was the first on the list and that the error was removed from the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25853	For discussion, for discussion....
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25854	For the argument or for the guilty allegation?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25855	For discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25856	Then, uh, I'm sorry to keep you waiting. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25857	Well the minister actually confirmed my allegations, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have. The numbers of employees I have read are the numbers that I have, I don't have the data in the rulebook of one, the other, the third institutions, from the 2017 Budget, and when the number at the bottom of the employee's budget writes, they're probably the ones that have the budget funds for salaries and I've read those numbers, I guess. The other thing, so we don't have, we don't have, and we don't have, although, as our people say folkly,...is lying down seeing 2015 that we have to have. Furthermore, Salakovac state institution, but with clearly defined rules on who goes to Salakovac, right to accommodation, persons who have been recognised refugee status etc. etc. Not pick up on the street, put on buses and drive to Salakovac and say it's legal, and now here's the Foreign Office not to call any law when it says what legal status it is. And then the statement -- arrests, invites the SIPA, invites the D.A. to arrest a certain man, the secretary of security from the pay phone, and the pay phone cannot be run by the Ministry, that's the problem. So, confirmed are the allegations, we should be more serious about this being prepared and my debate is not political, nor pre-election, my debate is in order to see and this Parliament helps a lot more when there is relevant information in the part where it can address the future situation with the migrant crisis, because it will, and you said it yourself, agree, lasts.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25858	Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25859	Thank you. In his presentation, the minister forgot to tell us some important information that speaks, among other things, about the structure of migrants, and I suppose he has that information, and I think he should bring it out just for the sake of true information. The minister also spoke earlier in his presentations about the direct Teeran-Belgrade airline, where the visa-free regime Iran 36 – Serbia is being misused and that a number of people thus enters Bosnia and Herzegovina through this migrant route, so he would ask him to inform us too, because I think it is important that Parliament has information that is not just from the media. And I'm going to say one more sentence, exactly 180 days ago, 22.12. I was sitting with people from, who were border police employees, who told me where the migrants would be coming in in three, four, five months from now, that's what the border police knew. I didn't believe them that it was exactly the way it was, so we went together and moved to Serbia and came back from Serbia that no one was watching us. Then they tried to make me a circuser, who's making a scandal out of something that doesn't exist, even though I pointed out the fact that border police employees all know, but they can't say because they're gonna be out of a job. Asked a question here, Minister Mektić then reacted very specifically and correctly, I must say, but these border police have killed themselves to prove that there is no such problem. Today 174 days after I was there, everyone was complaining that I couldn't patch up those holes, and until this happened, everyone was saying there wasn't a problem, including the Ministry of Security. The other day when we were at Mr. Ujić, we had a meeting 45 minutes after the meeting, a man invited us to go to the institution, a man doing his job, it's my impression, it's another thing whether he has the capacity of institutions or not, 35 new migrants were present in front of the building for the 45 minutes. Where they came from, they don't know where they went, they don't know, but they do know that they came to the capital center to apply, but it seems that the border police are still saying there's no problem and there aren't any,...probably because these smuggling routes are still useful to many who work there or are connected, because that's where they pass don't ask what they don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25860	Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25861	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, here's just a little, conditionally speaking, replicating the minister, although it's not a replica, but to confirm exactly what he was talking about. You remember well when we adopted the state budget for 2018 as discussed, here's exactly what I was saying, but it turns out today that I was right, that a small budget framework, that this country needs far more resources, is what the minister was just talking about, to employ people, to provide material security agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina to prevent this problem, but this is evidence of the inability of the government to recognize the problem that goes beyond the hills. The thing about the vision of a man, and through it is that his mind is being looked at, is that he has this assumption, not to say what Mr. Magazinović was just talking about, that we had enough information that we knew this was going to happen to us today. However, here is the goal of the government to finance this state as well as the Sarajevo Canton and then when we come into these problems that we are in, we know where we are today, we know what we are going to do, and we have no one to turn to because we didn't first provide our capacities to be able to function in this problem that we have today, so that someone on the side can help us, and then we have this additionally to have the capacity, and we can't use them. So there's a lot of important problems here, and that's what cares about this country. So, the government in this, at the moment now and before, when it was supposed to plan or something good that was going to happen in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or it didn't respond badly to its function, and we have to bear that fact in mind, because this is the process that will be the 2019s, etc. So those who come and be part of the government or create a future government must know the failures of the previous authorities to prevent certain problems. And here's to say what Mr. Kožul was just saying, Mr. Ilija Lasić is an illegal commissioner, he had no right to prevent the work of state institutions and not only is he responsible, is responsible for all those in the chain who have obeyed the order of a man who has no right to sit in the position he is currently in. in the Herzegovina-Neretva canton, because the Constitution of the Federation of BiH is being directly violated, which says the minister and commissioner cannot be from the same constituent people. [[The speaker is 37 alerted on time]] The commissioner in the HNK must be either Bošnjak or Srbin, and then they would respect, and then he would probably have the responsibility to put himself in the right direction towards higher instances, which is the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25862	Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25863	The Honorable Chairman, at the last session when the promoters put this on and when we supported it to end on the agenda, it was an urgency for us to get documents from the Council of Ministers, today when you look at it we have nothing to discuss, so we have no information about the situation and situation of migrants and the migrant crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then this should have been called an initiative where the Council of Ministers is tasked with delivering us, and since the session was interrupted and the Council of Ministers had a full 20 working days to provide us with this information, they did not do so, and you have now brought us as representatives and advocates to write what is the oral presentation of the esteemed Minister of Security. So, let's also write down the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina when we talk about this topic. So, I invite you to stop this, so that this will be in good shape until the next session of the Council of Ministers to deliver to us everything the Honorable Minister has stated, but not just him and the other relevant ministers and ministers, with all the services. On the other hand, we wrote down, here's what the minister says. So, in 2015, Mr. Minister, that plan and programme were adopted at the Council of Ministers, we discussed it here and we had then as provided resources for that migrant crisis to be announced. In 2017, it was already seen that the migrant crisis was already at the door of Bosnia and Herzegovina and when the budget was adopted, none of the relevant institutions addressed the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples to seek additional funding. And I ask you to put all that you have said here at the pay phone, finely put it on paper, to put all these demands for additional capacity, human resources both the State Border Service and others, in the form of a proposal and to discuss here and to find the funds, not just the 75,000 KMs that you have separated. On the other hand, it's not all so that the State Border Service was preparing for this, it's not. Many state-level police agencies were preparing for the election and re-election of directors, and only everything was focused on whether they would sit back in the chairs and when the seats are crying out for nothing, they don't have enough money. So that's where you need you as a minister and all the competent and judicial and all the others to react that those who, as you said, will respond, do not fertilize your demands, so that you do not do something that they are, which does not come to be replaced by these people, that they do not do their job with what was the plan and the programme for the migrant crisis. So, and you're saying that all that's in the media or what you're hearing are misinformation. Imagine what it's like for us as advocates and advocates for this item of the agenda to search the portals to inform ourselves [[the speaker is warned on time]] Because we don't have any valid documents to discuss this topic today. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25864	Thank you. 38 So, for the second time we have a proposal to prepare written information on this, we have a proposal for conclusions signed by Borjana Krišto, Nikola Lovrinović and Predrag Kožul, who also propose that the same thing be done. I suggest that the House be made aware of the fact that we now adopt these conclusions, because then that means the discussion of these conclusions again, which was the intensity of this agenda point and that we interrupt this point by adopting a conclusion that will provide written information for a quality debate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25869	I would like to remind you, the Honorable Chairman, that when you delegate points to the agenda, it was a practice here to this day, that you cannot end up on the agenda unless there are written materials. So what we have today, here I am, my computer and I when I open this dot, and I'm following the envelopes that come into our club, uh, you didn't deliver any of the written material to me. When I click here to open up what's the written clue of this, I don't have it all. On behalf of the Democratic Front Club, I'm looking for a half-hour break for you to consolidate yourself and tell me, give me an answer, or maybe look, maybe they didn't make it to our club...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25870	Well, there's no need, just to explain. So, Dom voted that this point should be classified like this without material in the agenda, not the College, at the beginning...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25871	And when we voted, that's when they were supposed to deliver it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25872	39 sessions before... listen to me, at the beginning of the session when setting the agenda for everyone it was clear that there was no written material, however, Dom adopted it and now we have this point, I suggest we vote now to provide written material and then continue this debate or we will have the same debate twice. Here's the suggestion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So what do you suggest we continue the debate? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25875	Thank you. So, I remind you and supplement myself on Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil that we had a conclusion from the previous session that we needed to deliver the information, we said that she was our previous old lady and we didn't get her, so we broke up the session, so we continued her here today, so there was still time, we didn't get the information, so we're going to get her. So, I'd just like to tell Mr. Minister the following, so where do they leave your luck that, Mr. Minister, as you've been here so tightly today, you've made it clear what you're missing, missing, when they've kept a lot of press conferences so loud, where they let their luck go. So, why don't you arrest the Chiefs of Bihac and the Great Claudius today? So, you went to Bihac, you talked to the president of the county government, and there the commissioner, you didn't even go down there. Look, so, you've caused this story, you've caused this story that she's pretending, what you said, to pre-election or I don't know what, it's not us. You were saying, therefore, why do you have the right to say that someone is being arrested, so you can't do it, Minister, you don't have that authority. With what right do you speak in, what, you say illegal immigration, and then you arrest your co-worker from the police, and all of this is illegal, illegal. So you're saying you need to arrest a man, the president of the county government needs to be arrested. Well, please, you can't do that. So, you watch what you say and you ask that, you said half a year ago, Mr. Minister, don't go out, that the security situation is good, you said, and now you say you can't control anything, so don't let Mr. Minister hear us out, don't do that. We agree that you don't have the capacity to talk like that, but you don't, so you create a neurality that you also transfer to the media and transfer it to the public. Don't be angry, don't be angry, so ask for what you've been looking for at all press conferences now and consider us responsible, and not say some words first, so what, then blame us for that. It's not our fault, Mr. Minister, it's not us, nor did we bring them, nor did we say that someone did it against the law, but that's what you said and called the D.A.'s office, called this, called it, so come on, think about it. What you said today, okay, let's find a solution, so, to fill the police, to find the money, yeah, that's the way to go... so you won't, you have to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25876	Šefik Džaferović. 40 BOOKS
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25877	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers. I replied to the word to say that I belong to those who think that there is one detailed information to be obtained about this and then to have a serious debate, but here's the debate going where it is going, and now I've come to the word that I'm responding to Mr. Lovrinović's exposure and I'm saying here, I've been speaking publicly about it, that if he thinks about what happened to Ivan, to whom the Minister of Security responded, that you are then uglyly wrong. I think he should have reacted not only to the security minister, as he reacted, but also to all the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What happened on Ivan's day is something that, in my opinion, is one of the gravest attacks on the country's constitutional order, that local or cantonal police, on someone's orders, stop the execution of a decision by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let them get their heads together and think carefully about those who took part in it, which in my opinion is a serious injury to Dejton and is a serious crime. Freedom of movement in Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the basic principles on which the Dayton Peace Agreement was founded. There are several of these principles, in the first member of the BiH Constitution, the first talks about the continuity of the state, the second about its democratic character, the third about its internal structure and the fourth, regarding this, full freedom of movement within Bosnia and Herzegovina, goods, capital and services without any restrictions, as if there were no internal lines and a special principle is the hierarchy in the conduct of institutions. No Niko has the right, and one who decides to do so makes a serious injury to Dejton, to stop the execution of decisions by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If the security minister reacted to that, I welcome it here now at the pay phone, and yes, I followed it, and so should all officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina react, and those who did so should be ashamed and prepare for responsibility. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25878	Deputy Chairman Borjan Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25879	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I am also reporting for correction of the wrong quote. I'm sorry that this important issue, as far as it's concerned, has some kind of humanitarian character on the one hand, and on the other hand, the overall security situation, we're discussing it this way. And you saw, here I am now responding to the correction of my colleague Džaferović, of course I am not surprised by this attitude and therefore I am not surprised by the minister's attitude, who acted as he did, and says he needs to be arrested, he should, etc. and Šefik Džaferović comes to us here and interprets the BiH Constitution, he wants to say that the BiH Constitution is he, that he can interpret it, that the BiH Constitution is a minister. I remind and ask all of us here – are there institutions under the law that should do their jobs when it comes to migration? And as far as memory serves me, as far as I know, the Constitution of BiH is in the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is there any decision by the Council of Ministers on such a matter in particular, and I am not saying is there a rule to which a colleague referred, which says how and how migrants are referred, or how and what decision should be taken by the Council of Ministers to make a reference, in order for certain persons to head to the center in Salakovec? We know what rule we have to work under, which clearly states which people down there can go, is there any decision? And behind that, I agree that institutions are doing their job, including the prosecutions, etc. both in one case and in another, if necessary. Thank you very much. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25880	Nikola Lovrinović, non-compliance with the established agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25881	So, he didn't stick to the College of the Agenda, so I have to tell him, so he's threatening and saying, "Let those who, he says, think about it." So, you're taking your own ingenuity as a member of the College, as did the minister. They have institutions that need to do it, and now they're taking care of security down in Salakovec, what's going on down there, if there's any of those institutions, if there's a minister, if there's a minister down there to see what's going on? Can you go see what's going on down there? So, you take for granted what they, the decision you're talking about, the decision the minister's been taking, give us the decision he's made... there's no such decision, I don't know it is. So, he did according to his intent, and he took the ingenuity that didn't belong to him, so now you're doing it, he says, let people imagine. So what are you, what are we supposed to think? If that's the way for you to become a member of the presidency, it's okay to rely on us and... us, no problem at all, we'll get back to you, we'll answer you for sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25882	Šefik Džaferović. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25883	Don't you, Mr. Lovrinović, worry about me, my candidacy, I don't want to talk about it here and see that I am completely restrained that I rarely take part in the discussion and I don't want to use this speaker for campaign purposes. I got up here, first of all, as a man who thinks he understands the functioning of Bosnia and Herzegovina's overall legal system and I'm talking here about a moment that's very dangerous for this country, when the police of one level of organization come to the police of another level of organisation at a certain point in Bosnia and Herzegovina and when there may be a conflict. I'm talking about it, and that's the purpose of my reporting, and I'm asking you to take this thing very seriously, it's a key thing in this event, it's called conflict or conflict of police agencies, and to anyone who causes this conflict, I'm telling you to run away from it, that he intends not to do it in this country, and that's the purpose of what I want to say, and that's how I understood the presentation of Minister Mektić and I ask you to remember this well, we all need peace, stability, freedom of movement and respect for the decisions of all the institutions that exist in this country. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25884	Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25885	I thank the chairman. You see, here's another time, this, you're working, you're giving priority to the members of the College in correcting the wrong assumption, there's no member of the Rules of Procedure who prescribes that members of the College have a head start, and especially at this point, I've never responded to this point before, but at this point it's already becoming a shootout between HDZ and SDA, first Mrs. Krišto, then colleagues Džaferović and they get the advantage of that shooting, and then it feeds the further shooting here, as we can see. And I also remind you that you have completely exorcised the request of colleague Gasal-Vražalica-Devil for 42 breaks, which she did not withdraw, at least I didn't see her pull. So the Chairman of the dom is obliged to take a break when someone asks.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25886	First, you are right about the Rules of Procedure, but it has been a practice since the beginning of Parliament's operation to chair the College to give members of the College a word if they so require. So it's true it doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure, but it was a practice that I followed. Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil didn't insist, so I went on, if you insist at all times, if you're looking for a break, you'll get a break. Here you go, Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25887	So, as you say from the beginning, is there a practice as to how members of the College and members are given the word, so there is, I have warned of it, so from the beginning of this call you have respected Article 71. The Rules of Procedure, which says – at the beginning of the sitting of the House Parliament, as well as any authorised promoter, have the right to request the exclusion and proposal of a new point with the relevant materials. I call you, today as a representative, I don't have the material I want to discuss, it's really migrants, it's not who's a member or candidate for the presidency, it's nobody's interest here, I'm interested in migrants, I'm interested in the capacities that Bosnia and Herzegovina has or doesn't have, the money that it takes to provide the capacity and resources, I want to see it in the document to come forward and to really be humanitarian and to really help these people, because I used to be a refugee. I now insist on a break like, on behalf of the Club of the Democratic Front for half an hour and expect that you, as a College, will also call the club heads, either deliver us material or you will find a way to call only one thematic session with this topic, but with all relevant current information.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25888	So as a college, we don't have the right to the Maja.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25889	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25890	Majo, listen, let's not keep the agenda item voted by this House, so this is the Dom voted without the material point knowing there's no material we got into this. I can only propose a vote on the adoption of the conclusions that suggest providing written material, so that the discussion is conducted on the basis of this written material. However, there was no readiness in the House here now that I suggested it, I saw MPs protesting wanting to discuss it now. So the only thing I can do is suggest we adopt conclusions that will be asked by the Council of Ministers, as there is already a proposal for a conclusion here, to deliver up to the next session written information and continue this discussion without having the same discussion twice without material and then with materials. Can I put it to a vote? 43 [[Common discussion]] Here can't, so let's move on with Dušanka Majkić, correcting the wrong quote. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25894	Well, here, I want to say a few words, that when it comes to migrants in Germany, the coalition majority is at stake, the government. When it comes to France and Italy, there has been a diplomatic dispute, because it is a major and primary issue to be discussed, and when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, we meet several times to talk about it, we get a few years old after even two years of material, and eventually when the Council of Ministers seems to adopt the material called "The Material" at the 142nd session – Information with a proposal for measures that should be urgently taken with focus on illegal migration and border leaks, above all, with eastern neighbours, there is no material. It is not only that there is no material, there is no Council of Ministers chairman, to whom this should be primarily a security issue, and, behold, there is no Minister of Security because he said everything he said, he said at his press conferences at which he represents a play and joke with journalists, and no serious thing he said to the public, but also we parliamentarians who should offer some conclusions based on it, we could say how serious we are when it comes to such things. Now that's our reality that we're talking about. So, a country where the executive authority doesn't work and worse, a country that doesn't provide information to its legislative authority, that country doesn't exist. Don't let us play size as someone teases it into the pillars of the earth. What kind of pillars of the country is one that teases the one who doesn't care what happens tomorrow, and what kind of security problem is that when it can't be controlled tomorrow? In the end, Croatia also controls when it is controversial and What happens when it's much more? [[the speaker is warned on time]] I just wanted to ask two questions to the minister, questions that aren't about money. The first question is, why was nothing done to strengthen co-operation with Frontex? It is the European Union body that helps members, but also those who are not members, and the agreement itself to co-operate with Frontex has stopped somewhere between the Ministry of Security and The foreign ministry, embarrassing. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And the second question - why does the meeting of the 44 key body, the task force, not be called by the head of the task force, acting as chief prosecutor? Why is he avoiding calling key people? So there are too many questions and many things that Minister Mektić has to answer so that we can get over it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25895	Correction of the wrong quote, Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25896	I'm sorry the minister isn't here, he should be. I understand his fatigue over frequent travel or press conferences, but that's no excuse. We have received completely confusing information from this pay phone that is unserious even for a press conference without speaking for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. There is no solution to the migrant crisis by creating a show for the public. I'm glad there's a deputy minister here, it was perfectly logical that the latest information was delivered to the House of Representatives because we've had more than 20 days off since the previous session, so I don't think there's any excuse. Also, to say that we don't have the capacity, that 65% is filled is completely unconvincing. The minister says 65% of BiH Border Police employees are missing, and says there are 500 police officers missing, and there are 2,500, so that's 20 per cent fill. If 3,000 places are scheduled, that's 15 again, between 15 and 16%, which equipment is needed, too, it's a series of inconclusive things. Today, by chance or not, is the International Day for Refugees or Migrants. We have a dramatic situation, the murder of one of the migrants in Kladusa, here, today as we conduct this debate, a boat with migrants at the border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia at Zvornik, etc., we are talking today about the number of migrants and the minister tells us that the figure is about 2,000, while a few days ago we were able to read that Bosnia and Herzegovina is the country with the largest number of migrants, so within the country. Why isn't that number decidently said? Secondly, is it possible to solve problems such as Salakovac, Klajuda or Bihac in the way the minister does? Is the serious story being led by such confrontation or agreement with all structures at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina and approach it that way and then... how in Bosnia and Herzegovina a state coup was attempted? Is that so we'd like someone and accuse them of being human and being against migrants? Another question that was amazing to me earlier, the minister said that 80 Republika Srpska police officers cost 80,000 a day. It's completely absurd and abnormal information. You know exactly how much food, how much food for every cop is, how much the living room is, and how much anything. So, not one thing I heard from the pay phone today is absolutely unconvincing and I believe it is absolutely..., the minister must comply with the responsibility, not with the public entertainment processes, access, a lot of information, if a closed press session is to be held in the House of Representatives, make decisions and be determined accordingly. Otherwise, we will be the laughing stock here, in Sarajevo, in Brussels, and elsewhere. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25897	Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25898	So I will refer to the allegations of my colleague Salke Sokolović about this topic. In fact, I'm going to say that the status of HNZ police director is somewhat irrelevant to everything that's been going on for this migrant crisis, and in particular, it's not a constitutional category in any way. But 45 regardless of that, the MUP County, including the HRP, has its own clear and serious competences and obligations, among other things, the security of citizens. And when something happens that is apparent in accordance with the law, when buses are filled to people who do not have a status clearly defined in Articles 32, 35 and 37, the Asylum Act and that, and that is the situation which, from the safety aspect of the MUP, checks the seas. The other thing is, I can fully understand the situation, I believe that everyone can understand it, so even the people of the county, etc., when the situation is serious, the drama is, the emergency situation is and humanitarian, and security, so for the capital and urban view, we can say, we will not stick to, as an old man said, like a drunken float of the law, so we will also use the center Salakovac for that and for that, to accommodate people who do not have a clear status in Articles 32 and 35. The asylum law, which by law is located in such a center as Salakovac, but which we will make an extravagant situation. But it's help, it's co-operation, it should be something that needs to be made clear, said, and asked for help as it tells me here in response to the Foreign Affairs Service, that they've asked for help. So here we need to be very clear and say that the MUP HNZ has jurisdiction and must stick to them. Is the coup a violation of the Asylum Act when you transport people, frame them, contrary to that Law? We have a series of laws, we don't stick to them here, there's an emergency situation here, here we may have to rush and change, here we may have to fix the laws and adapt them to the situation, but how are we going to do that if in this Parliament we don't have relevant information? And that's why I'd like this point to be, if today really did end the way we talked about it, so if I did, we'd get information.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25899	Thank you. Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25900	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, just a little review on, with Mr. Kožul. The MUP Herzegovina-Neretva Canton has jurisdiction, that's for sure, but there's no commander, there's no one who needs to manage that system and so much about it, uh, since I spoke a little more specifically. However, here I want to appeal to both my colleagues and my colleagues here in Parliament, to approach this vote anyway. Come on, we've directed our discussion politically, I'd say so, to one man, to a minister, no matter what his name is, but in a way, if that's how we behave, we're adolating the entire government. So it's the government who's responsible for this condition. The minister is only one of those who sits in the government, or the Council of Ministers and, uh, does the job as prescribed by law and he proposes to inform, and the Government, or the Council of Ministers, sits and adopts that information and sends it to Parliament. And here, if we get that information, we'll see how much government is at this point aware of the situation we're in when it comes to the migrant crisis, we'll see what it really proposes to solve these problems and what we as Parliament can recognize is that we need more, or help the Council of Ministers to bring this story to an end. This is not a political story, this is a story that is a problem for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is also a humanitarian character and we need to find an adequate answer that in the world, in particular in Europe we will be recognized as people who understand the problem, but who must behave as they are defined by the Constitution and the law of this country. So I would ask the chairman to once again, I don't know why he'd ask us whether or not we would, let's vote, so if we cast our vote, our different position to continue, to continue, if he votes, maybe someone will and won't, and he'd behave differently. 46 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25901	I have the agreement of the College, since this is already a no-show proposal, to adopt the conclusion that we are asking the Council of Ministers to give us written information about the refugee crisis and then to hold a debate after that, and now to end this debate. I'm voting on the proposal for this conclusion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's right, that's right. I'm asking the Service to make it possible to vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25905	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25906	Well, here we go again. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25907	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25908	Let's hear the Rules of Procedure get hurt.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25909	...that is what is in the process, in the process, you should give as much as it has been reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25910	Well, he can't when the vote started.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25911	No, it's been reported before. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, all MPs in this House are equal. During this, discussions on this agenda point, that this opportunity is for one number of MPs to turn and make a statement. You do not have the right to deny, if you allowed, at the beginning of the discussion, the other MPs to declare and turn at the same point, which they have applied for. Therefore, all MPs are equal and you ignore it. If we checked in, then you should've gone down to be us first and then these up, and not this way, to deny us the right to tell us what and how and how we think about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25912	Please, so this is where the MPs will decide whether the session will be interrupted and whether the point... will be requested by the Council of Ministers of Materials. So MPs need to decide that. If the House decides to continue this debate, the conclusion, the material will be voted upon when voting on all points of the agenda. I think that's clear. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25913	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25914	So what if there's a debate? ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25915	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25916	So, the College is agreed to put this proposal to a vote on this, here, I will repeat, that the Council of Ministers is asking for complete information on the state of play... Stasha
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25917	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25918	Come on. Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25919	...we are witnessing the fact that when Parliament asks for more information from the Council of Ministers to wait for four, five, months of my people and we never get it. This is a matter that changes every day in this country, this is a security challenge, a problem in this country. You gave a minister who didn't say anything, and I don't know if anyone is satisfied with what he was saying here in the O.R., you don't allow MPs to state their position, and I hope that there will be any conclusions that we will come together to agree on in what way to act. We can't ignore the fact that we have a problem in this country. We've allowed only one man to express his views. Here, obviously we also have very different views, that competent institutions have not made any decisions when it comes to this transport to Salakovac. One man here manipulates all of us, why do we allow one man to manipulate Parliament, I think of the Minister of Security? Why don't you let Parliament talk about what you're holding us back?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25920	Everything, and now what, is there any more intervention to talk about? Then we can continue this story, here, continue. So I can sit here for days, this story will be back on the agenda when the material comes, but if you need to talk here for any reason, I don't mind. Here, we won't vote on it. Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25921	...the position of Parliament and the Council of Ministers says we are not actually ready to deal with any problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Did it seem abnormal to you that this Parliament has not received any information from the Council of Ministers since the outbreak of the migrant crisis? There is information adopted by the Council of Ministers and which has gone to the European Commission, so is that the Council of the European Commission or is that a Council that corresponds to this Parament? But we obviously have a crisis in this country that nobody manages, and I'm afraid, what other countries of the European Union integrates will fight us to an accident, because no one has a strategy and no answer. And as great as those unfortunate people who are migrants, it's such a huge incompetence for this country to be caught at any cost when it comes to it. And I think that, here today, we have people from the Council of Ministers, do we know the daily state? First we spoke there are 6,500, says now between 2,500 and 3,000, where are these 3,000? Do we know where they went, what country accepted them? Today it is said that a stationary centre should be established, whether in the countries of Africa or somewhere in the countries of the Balkans, so the countries of the European Union will check and say which... grizzly pears, this one is for me, this one is for me, what is not for whom you elect in Bosnia and Herzegovina and deal with it. Why did the Council of Ministers when it was the adoption budget, well management is the power of forecasting, when there was a wave of crisis by the migrant nobody from the serious international institutions heard that he said it was the end, going a new wave, even saying which was the route. We're like country, have we talked, have we ever made any plan? And that's why I think that Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil's proposal was correct at first, let's get the materials, not just out of our own impressions...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25922	Well, here, now you've turned it down.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25923	No, no, it's already over, the debate is coming to an end, it's a matter of running this session. But if there was a problem, I'm afraid that this country will argue and it was not possible for the Minister of Security to clear the park in Sarajevo with his decision and move it to Mostar, to factor Mostar, so that it would be a nice atmosphere for the president of Turkey when he came to see that the city is clean, that there are no refugees, etc. So we're lying to our friends, too, so there's the problem. That's why I think The migrant crisis is a matter that this country has no answer and that problems will culminate. [[the speaker is warned on time]] They were alive and saw, I was talking about 49, so the minister was angry. The question is raised, and now it is asked, so I ask the question, so there is part of economic migration, there are settlements in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are they migrant, or is it economic migration or are they asylum seekers, or are they migrants, and is that support for this wave of migration? [[the speaker is warned on time]] Do we have an answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25924	Mr. Špirić, it's been a minute and 17 seconds.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25925	Thank you very much, no answer, so that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25926	Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25927	I thank the chairman. Here's what my colleague Kožul said, about jurisdiction, he touched it a little bit, and Mr. Špirić did. Article III 1.f) The BiH Constitution makes it very clear that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have jurisdiction for, quote, politics and regulation of refugee immigration and asylum issues. It is the exclusive jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, immigration, the regulation of refugee immigration and asylum issues, and if the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina decide to move, refugees or asylum seekers, whatever they are in a given case, to Salakovac, then the MUP of the hercegovački-Nretva canton can only stand by the road and salute as the forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina are passing and immigrants, refugees or asylum seekers, whatever they are and it is not at all controversial. However, it is disputed that this point didn't begin this morning, this agenda point was opened on 17.05, and that day the House decided to discuss the matter as urgent and without proper material because the matter was urgent and we didn't want to wait for the material to come, but then the question is, what was the Council of Ministers waiting for from 17.05 to today, more than a month and why did they not bring some materials, and the crisis is getting deeper, we all see it, people sleeping on the road, on railway stations? Two days ago, they set out to the border of the Republic of Croatia, up near Velika Kladusa, the forces of the Republic of Croatia closed the border for this reason. It was two days ago, and two days ago it was enough for the Council of Ministers to prepare some information here, bring it, and not just to speak in mind, not to provide Parliamentarians with information that nothing can be done because if it is the position of ministers or the Council of Ministers that nothing can be done, then someone obviously does not do his job. But here's the fact that two days ago, migrants set out to enter the Republic of Croatia and that could be a security problem for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the minister didn't bring us any more information. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Therefore, separate these two issues, the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is clear and unquestionable in this case, but it is also clear and unquestionable that these institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular the Council of Ministers, are not exercising their competence, are not ours able to bring answers to questions here or some information, let alone stop that wave. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25928	Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25929	Dear members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, guests. Well, we have a very interesting situation. We'd all like to discuss materials and look for material, but we're against stopping the debate even though we don't have it. So it's this very unusual, unusual situation, and I've come to the attention of correcting such an allegation of a number of colleagues who were absolutely against it in their discussions, meaning they're being debated without material, but they're also opposed to breaking up the session until the material arrives. And in order not to participate in the debate, here, in my opinion, is one thing only logical, and that is that this House from now on until the end of the term has this question at each session, because this issue will not end with one report and one piece of information, where it is fortunate that it will. And that's why I'm proposing a dance that, of course, I'm going to write, which is that by the end of the term, the House of Representatives is on the agenda for each session. I think that those who like to criticise the minister will then have the opportunity to enjoy the criticism of the minister by the end of the term of office this nice, and also, ultimately, those who truly want this debate to solve the problem will have the opportunity to find out all the relevant facts and propose solving these problems, the way to solve the problem, but also all the carriers who need to finish the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25930	Mirsad Đonlagić, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25931	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with my colleague Novaković in one part of his discussion, but I'm asking how long are we going to wait for this material? If the fact that it was 17.05, and it is, the debate on this issue has begun, we do not have that material so far, it is an exceptional sign of disrespect for this Parliament. But it's not that nobody respects us, it's that we don't respect ourselves. If the fact, and it is, is that this morning on television from a neighbouring country, a senior official of the Refugees Committee, I think that is what it is called, spoke publicly about writing an Austrian press on the establishment of refugee camps in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Albania, there is therefore an extremely dramatic problem, but it is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, either it is a forbidden topic, or it is unable to include discussing the issue, or the government is unable to respond properly in order to warn the problem that clearly exists and which is becoming bigger and bigger every day. Also, as it is said that 4,750 people have gone from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we have witnessed that more than 200,000 people have left Bosnia and Herzegovina and we are also accessing a solution or an elaborated problem. Finally, I ask you as a College to do everything to preserve the dignity of this institution of the Parliamentary House of Representatives because it is obvious that we have lost ourselves, but even if you do not react properly and allow the course of the session to be like this, that I am ashamed that the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina, no matter how good it is for certain people sitting in this House and having maybe some ambitions, we will see how this will all develop together, but that you on your part do everything to ensure that you have correct and regular conditions that we have valid material that we will discuss properly, and not that this is one pre-election set that everyone will use in the way it suits him. I may truly appreciate you more than you appreciate yourself, but I invite you to do everything, to ensure that this institution functions properly for the next four sessions, as far as we have left, perhaps even three, does not matter, but please do not make this look like this. What I was just reacting to when you made that proposal, it might be correct if you said you'd make two proposals, firstly, that 51 dom agrees that this conclusion that you're going to suggest we vote on it or We'll go with the discussion to the end and then give what you gave, that motion to vote on. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Take care of these things to be the correct work of this Parliament...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25932	So there's a discussion to the end of this point. Next, Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25933	Thank you, Chairman. It is precisely what Mr. Đonlagić said and my part is referred to Mr. Novaković. Yes, it should be possible for MPs to talk here. We have already indicated at the beginning of this year the trend that a migrant crisis will occur in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At that time, we experienced a series of insults, unpleasant interpretations, and this continuity continued to this day. We definitely wanted the institutions that are responsible for this, which are common institutions, to say what should be done so as not to have these burning problems that unfortunately pile up every day. The truth that we also talked about this in May, so to this day we have not received any information from the Council of Ministers, talks about one unserious approach by the Council of Ministers. And we will not share responsibility with the Council of Ministers, nor will we allow anyone to transfer responsibility to others. The problem here is obviously that the Council of Ministers, I don't want to prejudge, but obviously it didn't go seriously into this problem or it's part of some creations and it's going to show time. But I have information that some Western countries, NGOs, individuals are very much involved when it comes to the education of migrants who come to Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have a very clear public view that we are assessing that this can cause us different kinds of problems in this country, and that is why I am inclined to have a debate on this issue in Parliament, to exhaust all of our ability to say what we think we are still insisting on the Council of Ministers to come out with written material on this. It is the obligation of the Council of Ministers, it is an obligation to the citizens of this country. Today, we have a situation, I fully agree with Mr. Đonlagić, that we have an illogical position of the Council of Ministers on this issue. And we only have the role of one man who comes out here and says -- he can't, he can't, he can't, he just hasn't gone out with a banner -- welcome to Bosnia and Herzegovina, That's all that was missing Mektić to do today, but that's what's causing the citizens' problems in this country. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Why didn't he run a positive legal analysis? Maybe some laws need to be changed. Why isn't an all-inclusive analysis? carried out? [[the speaker is warned on time]] On the contrary, I was under the impression that he was running a campaign to get to Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why I insist, I apologize to the chairman, only half a minute longer. to insist that we get information from the Council of Ministers adequate and that then the House of Representatives be determined definitely on this issue. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25934	jasmin Emrić, discussion. I apologize, Mr. Emrić, there was a mistake here in the technique and Mrs. Marković had been reported earlier, so by mistake someone...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25935	Thank you. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25936	So, I want to say a few things about this agenda point and I'm going to start with that finding that was a general finding here today among colleagues, that we lack information and material from the Council of Ministers in order to conduct a quality and adequate debate. To that end, I will say that information has appeared in the media that the Council of Ministers was dealing with this problem, so it is not true that they are nothing, here and I say something in the Council of Ministers' contribution, it is not true that they did nothing, although a month ago, and this material exists, so that material is somewhere on some 65, 70 pages and was expected today to say and announced that the Council of Ministers was dealing with this, that it has made information with the proposal of measures that should be taken urgently with focus on illegal migrants and the permeability of the border, primarily with eastern neighbours of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, this is a large material, which the Council of Ministers dealt with in early May, but they did, and he stayed with them in drawers, so they did not, they did not consider it necessary to forward the material to the MPs, because the MPs were the first initiators to lead the debate in Parliament on the problem. It further adds, therefore, that and I agree, of course, with those colleagues who say that this material should be officially delivered to us and we should read it and prepare ourselves, uh, for discussion, about the fact that the migrant crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina today is not too much of a problem to talk about, the facts of everyday life say. Unfortunately, more media in Bosnia and Herzegovina are dealing with today and point to a major problem that exists with migrants in Bosnia and Herzegovina than the Council of Ministers and Executive Authority in this country is dealing with. Some media suggest certain complications that are already happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina due to the presence of migrants. I, of course, want to remind all of us here, and that we all know that Bosnia and Herzegovina as a country that is a signator of certain conventions under which it is obliged to provide assistance to all people in the status of the need for humanitarian assistance, whether they are migrants, that asylum seekers, however, are signatories to these conventions, and that it is obliged to provide assistance to these people, but other countries in our environment, therefore, took great care of the interests of their citizens. When we look at the migrant problem, the problem with migrants from the angle of migrants and refugees is a predominantly humanitarian problem, and so it is, so these people need humanitarian help, but when you look at the angle of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina it's a security problem and, of course, after that and financially, because in this material, you'll see when you get it, the Council of Ministers proposes that 40 million KM be allocated to cover certain costs with that population, which will say that the citizens of this country should, and financially to cover it and to give, to allocate funds, taxpayers to separate funds to give it. Of course, this is not possible at this time because Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget has no rebalancing before the 2019 budget on these means cannot be discussed. But that the Council of Ministers has made certain failures and that it has not been sufficiently serious and hastily dealing with this problem tells us some facts. So, I have here, we all got this, information from the Border Police, which is their proposals, so the emergency measures that need to be taken in terms of the migrant crisis have been done in some seven points and people here have made it nice and clear what the border police problem is. People here also said that in 2017 they sent a letter to the Ministry of Security and pointed out the problems that will take place in Bosnia and Herzegovina and sought, so before we adopted the 2018 Budget, they asked to resolve, solve financial problems, strengthen the staff that should be employed in the Border Police, they said they lack 520 police officers, that some other things were resolved so that the border police would at least properly prepare for this one and could respond to their task for this crisis. The Minister of Security whether or not he was when the budget was adopted did not even occur to him to mention the request by the Border Police, which in time submitted its request. Not to mention 53 parliamentary commissions that warned him, or the Council of Ministers warned that there was a serious crisis and that Bosnia and Herzegovina would have serious problems with the migrant crisis, no one would look back on it, of course, but the minister of security here told us how you got that information, who's talking, so we don't have a migrant crisis, nor do we have problems with migrants in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'll just remind you, let's say, that while migrants were moving through Serbia, that, for example, the Serbian prime minister at the time was not only on the scene and in refugee centres, and at the scene he spoke about what the Serbian government was doing in terms of intervention to help these people, but also to protect Serbian citizens from possible complications and that, of course, he was in intensive communication with security agencies, with the government doing his job to adequately respond to his mission. Croatia's president She also addressed the public several times, and every time she spoke on behalf of Croatia she took care of the interests of Croatian citizens. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Here neither do you have a humanitarian aspect of the problem of having someone answer to it, nor do you have any personal citizens, absolutely no, there's nothing, and I'm not going to talk about it anymore because we're certainly going to have a chance to talk about it when we read all this material, but I'm going to say that the defeated performance today is by the minister of security here, who performed primarily as some kind of stand-up or a player in performance and who here is rebelling and angry at the MPs who are asking for this problem to be opened and to talk about it and to make a contribution to its resolution, he is rebelling and reacting in all of it. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, the absolute Ministry of Security, including the Ministry of Refugees and Human Rights, has not responded to its task, and of course we are somewhere now in the middle of the mandate, these are enough reasons to seek their responsibility or to resign, but since the end of the term of office we can only conclude that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be in big trouble in the coming days and the coming weeks and months, because it is evident that we, as a legislative authority, are not competent to act as executive authority in this problem, and the executive
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25937	Mrs. Marković, it's already gone and a half.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25938	I'm finishing up here, and executives aren't responding or doing their job.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25939	jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25940	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues have already stressed in their discussions how much a migrant crisis, the current migration crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina is difficult and serious for Bosnia and Herzegovina, our bodies and competent institutions, and we must accordingly stand up and act. It was noted that this respected House was not timely informed of everything that the competent institutions have done or what they are doing, and that there is no such quality of communication in this regard. We received information on the previous session based on the 2015 data and which we said was not up-to-date, and that it should be updated and delivered to this respected House in accordance with the current migration crisis and this more difficult migration pressure, it is particularly expressed in places where illegal border crossings occur and where it means at the entrance to Bosnia and Herzegovina, where it illegally enters the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in those 54 places where it illegally exits from Bosnia and Herzegovina, or where migrants seek at all costs to cross the state border and enter the European Union. In the UN-San canton, it is a very difficult situation, and earlier in this House, we have talked about it, the local authorities cannot deal with the gravity of the situation, and I am very interested in how advanced the agreement between the competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina with local authorities in terms of controlling the emerging migrant crisis in the UN-San canton, but since we do not have a minister of security here, I will be most likely and denied for such a type of response and such information. What I'm saying is that we were able to look at our overall readiness for the current migrant crisis with more information. There are policies and strategic frameworks adopted by the Council of Ministers, there are also action plans for action in the event of increased number of migrants and illegal entry into Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are documents that are in force and which bind us and in accordance with which our competent institutions need to work and act. I will remind, therefore, that the adopted Strategy in the Advertisation of Migration and Asylum and the Action Plan for the period from 2016 to 2020, that the Council of Ministers adopted those documents, that the defined policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the form of eight set objectives and 37 measures. The action plan to realise strategic tasks in the area of migration and asylum for the same period specify 173 activities, bearers and execution deadlines. So, we have these documents, of course, that the Council of Ministers should have informed this distinguished House of what is done specifically and how much in the financial sense should be foreseen that Bosnia and Herzegovina could deal with this migrant crisis. I agree with the minister, at present one of the greatest tasks of this respected House is to provide financial resources and not small, but significant financial resources. kolegica Marković has already indicated what awaits us, estimates in earlier information were that Bosnia and Herzegovina would successfully cope with the migrant crisis that more than 63 million KM should be provided. Where are we going to find these financial resources? If we consider what we have at our disposal, then we will only see how much funding is needed to expand existing capacities. The earlier Information in Chapter III – the institutional capacities and priorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the field of immigration and asylum, under point 4 of the available and potential accommodation facilities for the area of migration and asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina, outlines what is currently available. The Azilan centre Delijas, which has a current capacity of 150 seats, is capable of increasing 150 seats, a total of 300 seats. The Salakovac Export-accepting Centre current capacity 250 seats, possible increase of 100 seats, total 350. The Mostar Readmission Centre current capacity 100, the possibility of increasing 50, a total of 150 and the Eastern Sarajevo Migration Centre current capacity 120, a total of 120 and somewhere what Bosnia and Herzegovina currently has available for accommodation is 620 persons and we have nothing more. In order to increase accommodation capacity they need significant financial resources, and there's a problem that we need to solve. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And you know who solves That problem? [[the speaker is warned on time]] They resolve those institutions that form a migration management system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH and its Co-ordination Body on Migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[the speaker is warned on time]] There are no more institutions that have to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25941	Thank you. Zaim Backović. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25942	The moment we're in, and about the migrant crisis, it pulls behind it that we're dealing with the consequences and not the causes. We are now putting out the fire, and we will not see where the real causes of all that is happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina are. Migrants didn't fall from the sky, they didn't bring birds, so they went down. They had to come somewhere. To reach the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, they had to cross the territory of the European Union. If they went through Greece – the European Union, if they went through Bulgaria – the European Union, if they went through Albania and Montenegro – NATO members, we must start talking that way, we must start and address the European Union as well. I've heard one sentence that I heard on three diaries the other night, so on Croatian television, on Serbian television, means HT1 Dnevnik, on Serbian television, their central diary, on four apologies, on our own and Slovenian, all of them let go of this migrant, who addressed Europe and directly told them – you made us migrants today, refugees, now make us sit down or make our country come back to normal life. It's a very interesting line. Today, everyone is washed, no one is, but there are the burdensome countries that have been and are still burdened with their own refugees as a product of war in this country, because we still have refugees in our own country and refugees from our own country. In bilateral contacts, Serbia must be asked, if it notes that someone has crossed its border and it continues to monitor its movement – how is it possible that someone illegally enters Bosnia and Herzegovina, how is that possible? Which means that the state itself knows all the illegals are moving towards this country or has an agreement with those who are on the border to get away when they're dragged in, that's very interesting. As well as Montenegro, it would be necessary to start talking like that. The soldiers of Bosnia and Herzegovina are not present anywhere, but the NATO soldiers of the countries are, among other things, our neighbouring countries, well-intentioned who wish us a European path, Croatia. But now where those people from those countries are no longer able to enter that country, but should burden Bosnia, Bosnia and Herzegovina should be hermetically shut down and make us in between. A special story is the performance of our politicians, those who are exposed, they all forget that there are no works in this country where there are no refugees and where there are no refugees and some politicians, very recklessly or maliciously, plead that someone wants to change the demographic structure. So did anyone write an act about importing goods, then importing these migrants and then selling them to different places to change? Did someone call them by some act, do they have exclusive spaces in this country where someone can, someone can't? Read the first member of the BiH Constitution, the Convention on Human Rights We all forget what the foundation of our constitution is. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It should be done to the BiH presidency Council of Ministers, I ask you to finish one sentence, and the Council of Ministers towards the European Commission and the governments of the European countries that made this happen on the plate of this refugee. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Don't forget that France started in Libya, that we had hundreds of Libijac here for treatment in Sarajevo and none of them stayed as migrants. What's going on today? Thank you. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25943	Thank you. Borislav Bojić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25944	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I will try several questions, given that I agree with all those who have said it is necessary for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to be informed on the migrant crisis and on everything that is happening in visas with migrants in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore we will support this conclusion, proposed by distinguished counterpart Momčilo Novaković, and I believe that after this broad debate, the Council of Ministers will, therefore, be much more regular and quality to provide us with this kind of information. I would just like to remind you that not so long ago, the Minister of Security when he followed a refugee crisis or a migrant crisis that was moving in Greece – Macedonia – Serbia, according to Hungary and Croatia, said that Bosnia and Herzegovina will not be affected by the migrant crisis and that Bosnia and Herzegovina has no problem and should not worry about it. So that kind of assessment was completely incorrect, it showed up after a very short period of time and also to add another sentence, which he said, if Bosnia and Herzegovina were to happen, Bosnia and Herzegovina has capacities that can meet the challenges that will arise when it comes to migration, asylum, etc. etc. It turned out in the end that Bosnia and Herzegovina actually has a serious problem with migration and that these facts that we heard from the Minister of Security at the time are actually incorrect. That, it's being denied by practical events. Now that I'm looking at this information recently from the State Border Service, I'm asking myself a question, and now I'm asking myself, here's the Deputy Minister, I'm asking you, Deputy Minister, if you can say -- are we really controlling the migration process, or what's going on in this area? So, I had the opportunity to include commissions and past commissions and we had a conference in Bihac, where you were, to hear from the official representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina of the executive authorities that the crisis is being controlled, that it is under the control of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask you, therefore, that is the question of me as an MP to you, as deputy minister, since there is no minister here, whether the institutions and the authorities are really controlling what is happening, and about asylum, migration, etc.? Because when we were staying at the Azilant Center, we saw that there was a serious fight up there, and that there were serious problems, that local police intervened, that they were facing various problems, that even 80% of drug users were in those centers, etc. etc. Indeed, are the services of the Centre for Social Labour, the professional institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina enough, and is there enough capacity to be made available? And finally, let me ask you, therefore, as well as the Council of Ministers and in general all those in charge of this area – is it given any thought since the countries of the European Union are closing their borders, why does Bosnia and Herzegovina even allow it to have any kind of illegal migration? So can this process be put under control when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina? Can I control Bosnia and Herzegovina's borders? Well, they're not coming, as my colleague said, I don't know from space, but I guess they come from the direction of Albania, Montenegro and neighbouring countries. The question of Serbia is raised, etc. The question is, what is communication with neighbouring countries and what are the practices and experiences of neighbouring countries? So, please, I assume that you will have this stenogram that is today, at least it will be useful for this Council of Ministers, to use this stenogram to answer the questions of the MPs who have been asked here, and there have been a really large number of questions in many times and more times, but there are a number of questions to which MPs rightly seek answers, and I believe that you have enough expertise to answer the questions that were raised here in the Parliamentary Assembly, first of all with the intention of looking at the real situation and I am sure that when you work that information will not only be information, it will contain a certain proposal of measures in which Bosnia and Herzegovina will respond to these challenges that are not small at all. I'm interested, please, when you do that information, to make us a structure of people who go through Bosnia and Herzegovina either as refugees, migrants, asylum seekers and so on, because according to what we could at least find out on the surface here and not actually work on persons coming from war-related areas, it seems to me that 57 more people have a space that isn't affected by war, then the question is, what do you actually do in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to such things? I'm asking you this is a few questions, since the time has elapsed, uh, enough since there are a lot of questions that other colleagues have asked and I believe you'll on, this is just one part of the question, since the discussion has been cut that I'm not taking any more time, for now, this much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25945	Discussion, Fehim Škaljić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25946	Thank you. The scope of the discussion and its content suggests that the topic is vital and vital. The Council of Ministers is not effective on this matter, you can see that, we have no answers, and we are sparring effectively. You gentlemen, the chairman of this House has fallen to conduct this, and this is an opportunity, if I were there by chance, there would be a session interrupted at a time when on such an important matter the minister left and when he came, I was doing it in a home that was twice as big as this, when I chaired with him. Why? To show citizens whose representatives we are, that we are committed to their needs and that important topics when Parliament is meeting cannot be amnested to any other work. The state didn't declare a state of emergency for executives to have a better job than this. We amnest them in this behaviour that is not democratic and is not a respect for that part of the government chosen by the citizens. I welcome those who stayed here. Our responsibility here needs to be said, as authorities and as citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to refugees is stronger because all our peoples in the period of 25 years have received support as refugees in other countries, we respect it deeply, it has saved many lives, it has allowed people to get from the graves of protection, to acquire new knowledge and to return here strengthened. That is why the speaker of this Parliament should say that Bosnia and Herzegovina will be an effective partner in the reception of refugees, well-intentioned and organised, but not beyond what the overall context of Europe is, because we are the European state and the European country, and in that sense I would also ask that, in the Council of Ministers, I insisted that the Permanent Representative of the Council of Ministers be in the European institution for refugees at this time, not to waste time, because time is against us. On the other hand, we here as MPs very often act as an audience in a parter theater, what is this, where is, and where is our responsibility, where is our plan as a legislator about what is called a refugee crisis? Here I propose to you today that we go with the conclusion that our Commission on Human Rights with the members of the College draws up a plan for what Parliament should do. There's a lot of it and it doesn't have to come from the Council of Ministers and let's take an active role in it, there's something that we can do, there's something that we need to interpret to the citizens we're coming from, what it is, what it is, are these disorders, are they beyond the context of what's going on together, how we're going to warn it. We stayed uninformed, we stayed on, in an operational sense, uninterested and not talking to local communities. Did one of our bodies go into the field and what did we do about it? The refugee crisis won't be what it will stop, the misjudges we've received from professional structures say they haven't paid enough attention to it, it's a perfectly accurate finding of colleagues, that we are told here that Bosnia and Herzegovina will not be affected by this crisis, etc. Today we know it's not true, and we know it'll take a while. What is it that we can do effectively to be good hosts, but to be within the norm? And what is it that we, in a legislative sense, need to do to make this norm complete and what appears today in public as inconsistencies in the construction of a standard that needs to be channeled by us? I think it's our duty. In any case, 58 should be publicly and openly said refugees are the concerns of every country, refugees are the concerns of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens as part of what is a European standard and norm towards refugees, and that is where we need to work effectively with the institutions of Europe. I believe that this is the dimension that organised Bosnia and Herzegovina can overcome, and we all must participate in it together. I propose that Parliament adopt its action plan in the migrant crisis and be a co-ordinator of this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25947	So I believe that you will propose these measures for Parliament to discuss. Deputy Borjana Krišto. ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25948	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. That this is important to the respondents is seen from today’s debate and, of course, the previous one. I, I'll just remind myself that at the 60th session of the House of Representatives, I asked the Minister of Security one oral question, which referred to the overall security situation, especially from the aspect of this migrant situation. From the response that the minister gave me at the time, he was brief, that it was a broad area and that it couldn't be given a very short answer, so he sort of answered me in writing, and in fact what I can say and conclude, that in fact nothing concrete was done by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it came to the security challenge relating to the increased pressure of illegal migrants. The information that was at the 61st session, here, and we have found out, we all looked back at it in some way, it was actually a nerd, it was not complete, because the situation on this issue has changed, which we would say, from hour to hour, especially from day to day, so in this context we have suggested certain conclusions that you have heard, so I will not refer them here now, but I want to say that this problem has not been approached seriously and that there is no coordination and that, when it comes to this problem, it is the arbitrary decisions of individuals, and among other things, and the Minister of Security, here is, testifying and moving, in fact, the migrants who have been living in the parks in Sarajevo, in the Refugee-acceptive center of the Mostar, without any decision of the competent institutions and bodies, and in particular to the Council of Ministers, and without any coordination and any other powers with the authorities, as well as the authorities. In the context of the whole case and the move further destabilise, I would say, the overall security opportunities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, statements by the Minister of Security calling for a coup, to call on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, the Prosecutor's Office, SIPA, etc., to take action and to call for the responsibility of the competent institution. I would just remind the minister and everyone else once again that there are, in this country, both legal and sublegal acts that regulate this area and that we should all stick to it, and that institutions, among other things, that are invited, should do their job without someone's invitation. If the situation isn't good here, I'll just remember something else, because the minister, also someone here, referred to a minister who said we couldn't do it without, I don't know, additional financial resources, without additional employment, etc., I'll just look back at something, that there is, too, a legal regulator that regulates this area, so I'm surprised why 59 did not act and said, if there are certain problems in the legislation, maybe they should be changed. It may also be necessary to amend the Asylum Act, and it may be necessary to amend the Foreign Law, but this should be proposed, so to this Parliament. But here, very briefly, I will, the Regulation on accommodation and mode of operation and operation, the home line at the Refugee-accepting center of Salakovac in Mostar, we know that according to that Regulation, it is the center, not intended for the reception of persons without established status and identity, and that all persons staying in the center of Salakovac should have recognised refugee status. The Salakovac Centre is not an asylum centre, but a refugee-acceptant centre, and in order to become or be an asylumist, there should be a decision by the competent institutions, which in this case is not. Furthermore, neither the Foreigners Act nor the Asylum Act is respected when the Border Police discovers the illegal crossing of the border of a person, foreigners who have crossed the border are handed over to officials of the Foreign Affairs Service for further treatment. If the intention of asylum is shown, then the procedure under the Asylum Act is implemented, if the intention of asylum is not expressed, then the parties are subject to supervision, of course, in accordance with the Foreign Law. In order to shorten the story, what is visible in practice is the same situation and in acting on an asylum request, means that migrants in the largest number in Bosnia and Herzegovina enter without identification documents, and in accordance with the Foreign Law, if a stranger is found not to have evidence of identity, he gives biometric data, and if his identity is not established within six hours, he is placed under supervision, official premises, and can be given an eviction measure in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So these are all factual legal provisions, but in practice it is not implemented, but migrants are free to move across Bosnia and Herzegovina even though their identity has not been established. When it comes to asylum procedures, it is evident that migrants do not respect the legal procedures for asylum, and who allows them to do so? The institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. From statistical indicators, here, it is evident that for the first six months of 2018 we had a total of 6,014 asylum intentions, only 611 asylum applications were submitted. In this case, they should be placed under surveillance at the immigration centre, but they are free to move without any application of their stay, and this is confirmed by statistics where it is clear that on 18.06.2018, only 29 persons are under surveillance at the Immigration Centre. It means that things are getting out of hand, and that illegal migrants pose a security threat, they are certainly witnessing recent cases of a group of migrants at the border crossing of the Great Claudus where they were intended to cross the border illegally. and the murder of even migrants. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I'm sorry, I'll just finish. From all the above, it is evident that this problem cannot be solved in such a partial way, that the problem, that it needs to be resolved in haste, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with full coordination of all levels of government, respecting this humanitarian aspect that we talked about, and, above all, security. Therefore, we are asked a legitimate question whether the competent institutions have obtained lists of security-interesting persons who pose a security threat, all activities undertaken recently whether they have been taken on the basis of the powerful decisions of the competent institutions, whether security checks by foreigners are carried out in accordance with the legal requirements, and taking measures all institutions have so far done is in fact only one self-will that speaks precisely of non-compliance with the law, infringing the system and bringing about what is most important to all the peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is their security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25949	Hanka Vajzović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25950	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, it's not a correction to the wrong assumption, I have no other option, this is a confirmation of the right assumption, so something that has been shown here by my colleague Škaljić, I support it. I ask the question, here, we've all seen how many speakers have said so far, is this an important question, confirms that and the time we've spent on this, the question and our roles in this whole thing is being raised. In addition to parliamentary oversight, under some emergency conditions it should also be included in other ways. Kolega Škaljić said that it might be a good idea for the Commission for Human Rights, and I also adhere to this and the Joint Commission for Defence and Security which practically had one information, but somewhere, I don't know when the Council of Ministers, in March, we are sometimes in April, and how it is with us, usually it is received to know, the situation changes, should be monitored, kept up with it, and perhaps to make additional efforts. Of course, some services should give us this again, which others have talked about, give fresh data with an analysis very important. We have illegal entry and illegal, making a difference, so, when someone gets across some of our borders that's almost like a sieve, we have a big problem long ago that somehow stays on the sidelines to get rid of the indirect taxation administration that runs through these crossings, but also past the crossings, and the border police, of course, past the official border crossings, they go illegal, as now the wave is going to Croatia, why they come, as many as they are recorded, such data that we have and that the Commission also includes, since the humanitarian problem and the fat security problem would be a good thing for more representatives, here, if anything, and what's in the context of what's in our job description, it is Parliamentary surveillance as a bond, a bond with the public, and also, here, to make our contribution to see how it really is a problem and how it really deserves our additional engagement and effort. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25951	Debate, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25952	Thank you very much. No, I'm not. I want to say a few sentences. I listened to my fellow MPs, the issue of migration and asylum, and without problems that we have at the top of Europe's priorities, and it has always been treated as one of the important issues that each country should have met in bringing the European Union closer together. Without this problem that we have and which has escalated since 2015, what we're talking about here today, I have a feeling that this is a story that will be forgotten at the moment when we end the vote and there's no question, this very important issue that is complex, can't be solved by a minister with five employees at the Ministry, there's no theory. We're telling the story here that, that the state, that all of this, is a problem from the municipality, the canton, the entity, to the state, and if there's no such approach to get rid of it without these guns on Ivan Sedlo, so it's no hostility to those people who run from the war, so we had it 20 years ago, 20 years and a few years ago. Of course, the state of those who are a security problem must identify immediately, not to create a problem, but to enmity with people who run from war, in advance, only complicates the problem. I think we need to sharpen, of course, the border, crossing, but I'm sure as many cops at the border as there are going to be illegal crossings again. So that was the case with many of these European countries. You had different approaches to European countries where the fundamental principle of the European Union is human rights, so you had this Hungarian prime minister who hated Muslims so he put up a fence, so you had the very, and perhaps the best approach that Serbia had in the course of 2015, and this approach with Ivan Sedl is bordering me with this... what is called this Mađar, Orban. So, yeah, and that's a question that maybe the same 61 deserves the same attention as this, how could one Canton police have gotten to Ivan Sedl, and the other police on the other and both police with long pipes? It's a bigger problem than the migrant crisis, it's a bigger problem for this country than the migrant crisis, and I think in that case Minister Mektić did well because he was implementing the law, the state, but I also think, and in time I warned, and I held a press conference, that the state was not prepared for the problem that was coming, it was a month ago and I don't know how many days ago. However, we haven't had any answers from the Council of Ministers, we only have praises here that all is well, that we should give applause here, and that we are the best and perhaps, that's what many think MPs should do, that they have no right to criticise. A very complex issue to which we must approach carefully, we must provide great help, both financial and other, to the border police, we must listen to the Director of the Border Police, what is wrong with it, that at the best possible protection of the border, but we must also include all levels of government when it comes to housing, and nutrition, of course, and all police agencies, especially the Intelligence Service, not to get into a situation that we have people who are safely going through such situations, using them, which can endanger the safety of individuals, including states, etc., etc. But we always have to think and approach it in a way that it is a humanitarian problem, and certainly no enemy problem and that with some long pipes we stop convoys which can certainly accumulate things in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25953	This concludes point 16. Moving to point 17. The report on the reasons doesn't... BORISLAV
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25954	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25955	What? BORISLAV
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25956	Please, I'm asking for a break because I asked the Deputy Secretary to speak, half an hour's break. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25957	Half an hour's break. [[PAUZA]] Borislav Bojić asked for a word, is it because of the break or what? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25959	Very briefly, to explain the reasons why we asked for a break. So, I expected, after this broad and general discussion, that at the very least the minister, since there was a deputy present, and there were many issues that were very important and I appreciate that the deputy minister could immediately give them concrete answers that would certainly benefit the public, and also for us MPs, that we did not turn out to be wasting our time, I guess we understood with the executive 62 authorities, in which way they would act in the future. So, I expect the Deputy Minister to address if the minister isn't here.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25960	Thank you, but we've closed that point, we've locked down and moved to the 17th point, I'm guessing it's going to be... SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25961	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25962	What? SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25963	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25964	That it would be at the next session to discuss this again, as I understand it, so there will be opportunities. Point 17. Ad. 17. Report on the reasons for not taking the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security of BiH into full membership of the European Organisation for the Security of Quality in Higher Education (ENQA), with a concrete proposal for measures to eliminate observed weaknesses – applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH (realization of Salko Sokolović's parliamentary initiative, adopted at the 55th session of the House of Representatives held on 21.12.2017, 17.01.2018), act No: 01-50-1-2527-1/17, dated 30.03.2018. At last session of the House, we adopted a conclusion that delayed the debate on the report because of the need to be present during the debate on this point, the Minister of Civil Affairs and Director of the Higher Education and Quality Security Agency. Salko Sokolović suggested adopting the conclusion. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Salko Sokolović. I'm sorry, we've got the wrong quote, Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25966	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to remind everyone here that Mr. Bojić, during his discussion on the 16th item of the agenda, expressed himself in the context of the need to address the Deputy Minister of Security at the House of Representatives. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25967	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25968	I don't know why...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25969	Don't put me in a position to take away your...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25970	I'm looking for a half-hour break...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25971	A half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25972	Of course. Whom will you take away... I have the right to say. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25973	I'm going on with the session. Staša Košarac, damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25974	Thank you, Chairman. I didn't get another chance to answer. Don't mind me, but I don't think the role of the chairman is the only one to take a word for it. I needed to intervene for a little while because I believe that Mr. Bojić has submitted such an initiative within the right time period. I really ask you to reconsider this possibility that the Deputy Minister of Security should address the House of Representatives because it is a very important topic. We will not make it impossible for the public not to know any of the information, nor will it be possible to keep it from the political public and political court's role as Minister Mektić. I ask you once again to consider the possibility to take advantage of the deputy minister's presence and to have the Deputy Minister speak to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25975	Mr. Košarac, we have concluded the debate and the point before Mr. Bojić answered and moved on to the 17th point and you will have time to discuss, listen, and yet you have the right to listen to the video of this session and you will see that it was so. So, I'm having an argument, we're at the 17th point. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25976	Mr. Chairman, therefore, with all due respect, I'm also asking Mr. Deputy to return and bring us back to the point. In the debate Mr. Bojić suggested that Mr. Deputy address, you just forgot it. So there's no reason not to talk to us, and I don't see why that would be a problem. I'm looking for a half-hour break at a club.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25977	Half an hour's break?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25978	Yes, it is. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25979	This breach of the Rules of Procedure, Nikola Lovrinović, is it left or new?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25980	New, new.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25981	Nova, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25982	The newest president. So, I don't have any other way to explain the request for a break, so I'm staying on the proposal, so let Mr. Deputy Minister address, and I ask you to respect that. So, the reasons for you, I don't need to repeat them anymore, so on several occasions Mr. Bojić asked you in his debate to address Mr. Deputy, you've distracted it with your mind, so it's not just when he's late. Come on, so respect the Rules of Procedure, the man asked for it, you simply forgot it and I ask you nicely to address it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25983	I will continue to work on the 17th point by respecting the Rules of Procedure. Discussion Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25985	Borislav Bojić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25986	My respects to the chairman, I am extremely correct, indeed extremely correct in the discussion I said what I said. Since in the meantime there have been certain kinds of insults that are extremely incorrect, I now want to act incorrectly to request a break on behalf of the club for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25987	Half an hour's break. Aleksandra
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25988	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25989	No, it wasn't. It wasn't on this dot.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25990	Let's see if you're right, because you're already at this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25991	I'm not at this point. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25992	No, half an hour's break. Aleksandra
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25993	But he's already had a half-hour break at this point. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25994	No, he didn't, he didn't have it on this dot. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25995	All right, I'm asking you to take your seats so we can get back to work. Salko Sokolović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25996	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, as far as anyone can remember, I submitted an initiative in 25.10.2017 asking to submit a report on the reasons for not taking the Quality Insurance Agency into full membership of the European Agency. Namely, the signing of the Bologna Declaration of Bosnia and Herzegovina has accepted a single European high education policy with all obligations that are its integral part, of which quality assurance policy is essential. In its 2017 analysis, the European Quality Insurance Agency has proved that our laws and rules do not implement this obligation and that they have largely deviated from European policy. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that what is happening is not even a Bosnian hergic interpretation of such a policy but rather the opposite in some way of destroying the idea of European education. The Management Board of the Agency for which the report is otherwise, for which I have not voted so far, was obliged to allow our higher education institutions and students equal status in Europe. We in Europe, the Bologna process of, is being achieved by 48 countries in Europe, and for this reason we do not have the right to have a non-serious relationship with it, especially when it comes to academic workers who should be the first to vote for the European future of this country. On the other hand, I fully agree that there is a need to seriously examine ways of working both in public and private 66 universities that have otherwise come very easily to accreditation. Bosnia and Herzegovina's public expects this to happen right here in the Parliamentary Assembly. All of what I have stated coincides with the remarks of the ENQA Management Board, which clearly wrote that what is happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not in line with European standards and according to the following facts: 1. That there is no independence of the accreditation process in Bosnia and Herzegovina because of the fact that accreditation is not given by the Agency, but by state authorities, which is inadmissible to European standards, that is European, that is European Standard 33 which speaks of independence of the accreditation process. 2. The representatives of the academic community allowed themselves to create a conflict of interest within the Management Board of individual members who, in addition to the members of the Management Board, performed executive functions at individual universities, so I believe that a process of accreditation should be completely stopped, until a clear plan of exit from this maze is delivered to the Assembly by the Management Board and the Expert Group. 3. It was indicated that the Management Board did not represent all actors interested in the process of accreditation and quality assurance, which is an obligation under the Framework Law on Higher Education and that members were made only by regular professors of public universities. So there were no representatives of private higher education institutions, students, employers and foreign experts. 4. The Management Board had to initiate changes to the accreditation system itself and in particular propose solutions to the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance of the RS and to cantonal ministries where a solution had to be found based on European experience. 5. The Management Board had to resolve the issue of the appeal process and its participation in the process, as only in this way could it have been possible to protect higher education institutions throughout the process, in this sense nothing has been done which constitutes a flagrant violation of European rules and the opening of the way for corruption and 6. The unclear rules regarding the selection of experts, the lack of working with them and the authorisation of different evaluation criteria represent an additional responsibility of the Management Board. For this reason, I propose, for one thing, that I have delivered these conclusions to the MPs: 1. In order to replace the current Management Board of the Agency due to the difficult failures that led to the Agency's failure to become a full member of the European Quality Insurance Agency at this session. 2. Under the law provided for in the procedure and the necessary criteria to carry out the selection and appointment of new members of the Management Board, which is the obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly. 3. The Parliamentary Assembly should form an independent, domestic expert commission to conduct a complete and professional analysis of the damage done by the Management Board. 4. The Parliamentary Assembly should task the Ministry of Civil Affairs to hold talks with the higher education institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina within 30 days and on the commitments that the state should make to fulfil international contracts and the implementation of projects which they have already undertaken and because some accreditations have expired and others are already at the end of 5th. Very important, the Ministry of Civil Affairs must warn the Rectorial Conference that within 30 days it must be established and in accordance with the Framework Law on Higher Education, Article 43. The law, namely that this conference is licensed 67 and accredited universities regardless of ownership in public and private, we have three such rectorial conferences at the moment. I'd like to introduce you to the Ministry of Civil Affairs that I've received the information requested, the information has mostly confirmed my allegations. Given that the Ministry of Civil Affairs is not responsible, and that it has respected the independence and independence of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, which, at the request of my parliamentary question and initiative, asked the Agency to submit the report. Meanwhile, ENQA has appointed a commission for, and this is the European Commission for the implementation of expert evaluation, our Agency, and our Agency has been visited by the Commission in the period from 08 May to 10 May 2017 and has established the same situation. For example, I'm just going to make one example that the Agency has realized another 2016. In 2016, the Agency prepared a decision on standards setting minimum standards for higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That document has not yet been adopted by the Management Board. So, when we look at all those failures, here, which I was now talking about, which the Commission has also found, it is clear that significant shortcomings in the work of the Management Board of the Quality Insurance Agency are justified for this reason and for this reason my request or request of the Independent Block Club is justified. Given that I once again pointed out that they were not also formed under the law, since there were only representatives from the academic community from the public university without the presence of academic experts from the private sector, i.e. students and experts, then it was an additional obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly, which appointed this Governing Board, to make a correction, and that there is an irregularity present and with membership within the Management Board, especially when it comes to the responsibility of the Management Board, and here today, here in the Parliamentary Assembly, we declare the mistrust and initiate the procedure for the appointment of a new Management Board. That's it, thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25997	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25998	I thank the chairman. Article 74. The Rules of Procedure make it very clear that, in the absence of the draft act, therefore not only of the law but of any act, it is not discussed unless the House decides otherwise. Here, if you look at the title, the Council of Ministers, and I and this have already become a regular scene in this room, I don't see anyone from the Council of Ministers, nor the Ministers, nor the Deputys. And this is particularly devastating given the importance of this point, not taking Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership into ENQA, which has disastrous effects on Bosnia and Herzegovina's education system and there is no Minister Adil Osmanović here, who is the minister in charge of this, we see how much he cares about this issue. And I, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, know very well that Adil Osmanović doesn't care about this issue at all, because at the meeting of the Commission at which this point was discussed, he sent the head of the department, and the Rules of Procedure say that the Commission's assistant or more can attend, and then I did not allow the debate to continue on the issue in the presence of the head of the department. However, counterpart Džaferović insisted that the Commission vote on this, so we discussed it in the presence of the head of the department. However, if you are going to discuss this important issue at the House without the presence of any single minister, including the most responsible competent minister, together with the director of this agency, which Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been accepted 68 into the membership of this organisation, then you are showing how unseriously you consider this issue. In any case, there are no conditions for this matter to be discussed, and the Council of Ministers should be called to account, not only have we not been admitted into this organization, but also because they do not deign to appear here when this issue is being debated, neither of them 20.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u25999	All right, this is the only realisation of Mr. Salko Sokolović's parliamentary initiative, but it is formally here that the Council of Ministers proposes, as it says, which is why I gave Mr. Sokolović longer discussion about this. Here's what I'm putting to the vote whether or not we're going to continue the debate on this point. Please prepare for the vote. For 15, versus 10, abstention 3. There is no majority, an entity majority in the Federation of BiH. We don't have the terms of alignment in the second round, it'll be later. So, the point of the next session is delayed. Point 18. Information on the current position of the SEFIK
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u26000	Ask for a word...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u26001	Staša Košarac called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u26002	What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Staša Košarac, damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u26004	It doesn't matter which format, which format, I want to warn all of us that there are currently no elected Croatian MPs in the hall and I don't think we have the conditions to work, I'm going to ask you, the chairman, to let you and to ask for a break or to possibly interrupt the session, given that we don't have the possibility, I don't think it would be good to introduce a practice that without the representatives of one of the constituent people in the House of Representatives we discuss anything and anything or any decisions we make. I'm asking you to take this seriously. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u26006	The messengers who are missing have not reported that they will not come. I do not know what is the reason they did not come. SECHIFIC [[Shortly disabled microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u26007	I'm gonna continue... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u26008	Well, I know it's a bit of an unusual situation, if they went to the reception, and we don't know if they'll come back, [[Common discussion]] A 10 minute break for a consult. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u26011	Because there's no consent in college.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u26012	We have no agreement in the College on the matter. Please prepare __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, you can always do that, I mean... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u26018	Please repeat the vote...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-06-20-0.u26019	Do you want the vote to happen again? Repeat the vote. So the question was whether to continue the session, we don't have a decision to continue the session, the session breaks up by July 05th, I'm finishing the session. The session continues on July 05th. Session interrupted 7:10 a.m.
