ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26536	Please take your seats, let's get to work. I am opening the 64th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The session's absences were justified by Nikola Špirić, Nenad Lalić, Safer Demirović and Mirsad Mešić. According to the Office, 30 MPs attend the session. So I figure there's a quorum to work with. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are in line with the order of arrival, and the messengers will present them in this order. I note that we have three questions that are not answered in oral form at the previous meeting of the House on 05 and 26 July 2018, and these questions will be first asked. We can begin by asking oral questions and I give the floor to Mensuri Beganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26537	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. I didn't ask a question last time because I didn't have anyone to expect an answer to this question, but it seems to me that today it's pretty questionable whether it makes sense. It is a matter of agreement with Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia regarding the possibility of education of our young people in Slovenia in accordance with a previous contract that ceases to apply in September this year. Meanwhile, from the media, of course, I found out that a protocol was signed with Slovenia that regulates this, and I'm not sure if I'm going to have to continue to problem this issue. I hope that this Protocol is a strong enough solution for our children, our students and students in Slovenia to study as well as the children from Slovenia without any problem. If someone has to confirm to me that this protocol is regulated enough, I'd be grateful. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26538	Do we? We do. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26539	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President, esteemed MPs. What the esteemed representative asked the question and in a certain way gave a brief explanation, this is not about the ratification of the new agreement but about the extension of the current Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on co-operation in the field of education by the end of the study year in which Bosnia and Herzegovina will become a member of the European Union. This Protocol was signed on 25 July 2013, published in the Official Messenger of BiH – International Treaties for the five academic years 2013-2014, 2014-2015, 2015-2016, 2016-2017. and 2017-2018 On the Slovenian side's proposal to extend the Protocol, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs has implemented all the procedures, and the BiH presidency has accepted the extension of the binding Protocol and it is now in force and all that you have said will fully meet and honour the expectations we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26540	Thank you. You have your message.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26541	Well, here, I'd like to thank you briefly, and I'm glad that this is finally settled, since I asked this parliamentary question in the sixth month, but because of those sessions we've been extending, prolonging, continuing, it's getting pretty late. I am finally pleased that this is a good solution that will allow our students and students to study in Slovenia as well as their citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26542	Thank you. Question, Mirsad Isaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26543	I thank the chairman. I want to say hello to everyone in the O.R. and wish for the successful work of this session. My question was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, of course, to the Resoring Ministry, and could therefore be addressed to the Directorate for indirect taxation, to the Management Board of the Indirect Taxation Board and to all other institutions dealing with the distribution of public income. In fact, it is obvious that the 2009 interim decision is not appropriate, because it was made on the basis of no criteria and on the basis of the agreement. Distribution 59, 39 and 2% is a distribution that is obviously not adequate in the invested assets, incomes in the Single Account. The Federation's revenues are over 70, according to credible data, over 70%, from Republika Srpska slightly more than 26%, and Brcko District, therefore, 0.40% and slightly. So, we're running an obvious capital spill from the Federation to Republika Srpska and Brcko District. As it's settled at the state level, so is the Federation's level. 3 My question is – When will we welcome the law on the distribution of public revenues at the level of the state that is relevant, which is not temporary from the port, and which is in line with the charge, this, the income on the Single Account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26544	Thank you. Minister Bevanda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26545	Hello, everyone, with a desire for successful work. I'll frame myself in these two minutes that are available to me and give an answer. The method of distribution of income from indirect taxes is regulated by the Single Account Payments Act and the distribution of revenue Official Messenger 55/04, 34/07, 49/09 and 91/17, and the methodology and procedure for the distribution of indirect taxes to entities is prescribed by the Regulation on the calculation of the coefficients, the identification of entities. The entity identification coefficient shall be determined as the ratio of the sum of the final consumption shown in the tax returns of the additional value for goods and services on the territory of a given user of income and the sum of the final consumption shown in the tax returns of additional value in Bosnia and Herzegovina entered in the register of the Office for indirect taxation. The entity shall specify the amount remaining after the distribution of income from indirect taxes collected in the Single Account of the Administration and that: firstly, minimum reserves which allow the Administration to settle all obligations related to the incomes it collects. It shall be kept as the sum of the repayments for the following working day in accordance with Article 9, paragraph (2) of the Single Account Act, and the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Fiscal Council Decision and the adopted budget. The Brcko District in accordance with Article 13. The Single Account Payments Act and the distribution of income, as well as the financing of external debt at the level of the commitments made, by subtracting it from the share of the entity and directly paying into the state budget for the service of external debt. The provisional coefficients for the allocation of the remaining amount of indirect taxes shall be established quarterly. This allocation is considered temporary until the final alignment for that fiscal year. The final alignment between the distribution users shall take place on the basis of a final consumption report submitted by the Director of the Impaired Taxation Administration to the Management Board. Amendments to the Payments Act to the Single Account for the distribution of revenue shall be proposed by the Administration for indirect taxation, which shall be in accordance with Article 4. The law on a system of indirect taxation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the only body responsible for implementing legislation on indirect taxation and policies established by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Management Board, as well as for the collection and distribution of indirect taxes on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26546	Mr. Isaković, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26547	I thank you, but it is obvious that it is not an answer to my question – when we will get a new law on distribution from the Single Account. In fact, the reason for my question is, therefore, itself 4 facts, say, that a city of 80,000 inhabitants such as Brcko District that has not yet implemented fiscalization is killing huge resources. Of the 80,000 inhabitants, he only received 172 million for the budget this year, and one city of 120,000 as Zenica received all or all 20 million. So nine times as much as he got the Brcko District. This distribution is not logical and I think it is one of the most important things that we should have done in this term, and of course, in the previous term, and the future term is therefore this law that should be resolved. And another example, just for comparison, if you allow one minute, a second, so we can compare when it comes to the canton, so 400,000 inhabitants get as much as the City of Brcko. So it's inappropriate, and I note that the city of Brcko has no fixed fiscalization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26548	Šemsudin Mehmedović, question. SEMSUDIN
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26549	Thank you. Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. I have already asked this question in writing – Who has and on what basis recently allowed the installation of telecom equipment in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building? Is it true that there are several, so-called security zones in the Parliamentary Assembly building? Is this actually going to compromise the exchange of security data with NATO and is it true that the proposal submitted by the company at point one that entered the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building unauthorized and implanted all this equipment, is there within the Council of Ministers or the Office of Joint Affairs an appropriate regulation governing these issues? That's why I expected an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26550	Do we have anyone? Chairman Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26551	Thank you. I welcome the respected leadership of homes, distinguished representatives and MPs, respected media, my colleagues in the Council of Ministers and all present guests. This question, of course, is not a dominant issue that needs to be referred to me or the Council of Ministers themselves because the Council of Ministers has not given any consent to the installation of any technical or telecom equipment in the buildings of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Friendship Building between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Greece. The written answer to your question has been provided by the Service for Joint Affairs, I will deliver it to you and, behold, in the sense of this reply, I can read only one sentence in which the Office states that the requested consent has been granted to the said operator by the fact that there are already more legal entities installed in those facilities and that in that sense the Service did not consider that there is a reason to deny the operator the conditions previously approved and other legal persons. But I also have a written answer, and I'm going to deliver to the esteemed representative an answer that was delivered to us by the Service of Joint Affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26552	Thank you. 5 Mr Mehmedović, comment. SEMSUDIN
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26553	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Of course, the issue is addressed to you and to the secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, but the key issue is under number two, which is – whether it violates the Protocol on Co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina, or its security services and NATO, since we have security zones in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So, here, after I get that written answer, then I'll get... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26554	Ambassador Salko Sokolović, question.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26555	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present in the O.R. My question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers concerns the departure of people from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Official data on the departure of people from Bosnia and Herzegovina do not exist, and according to some surveys, only over the past few years about 150,000 citizens have left Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's mostly young people with high and medium professional training. According to informal polls, four out of five young people would go abroad if they had the chance. The main reason why more and more citizens decide to leave Bosnia and Herzegovina is the poor economic situation, the inability to work, the imperceptibility, but there are also those who leave because they are dissatisfied with the system of functioning of the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. BiH is no longer leaving just young, educated people, but the entire family regardless of nationality. Such practice is particularly reflected in border posts in Bosnia and Herzegovina or other return communities. To point out that my colleague Senad Šepić opened this issue three years ago and repeated it several times. The independent bloc since its founding to this day insists on solving this problem. I remind my colleagues, colleagues and fellow Members, that the Parliamentary Assembly has adopted our proposal to put this issue on the agenda as a special item at the beginning of this year and that it is up to the Council of Ministers to deliver a report on this matter. However, there is no answer, for this reason today this is my question. And just to make it concrete – What does the Council of Ministers specifically do to create a programme to prevent the negative trend of leaving people from Bosnia and Herzegovina? What are the concrete measures and how much funding has been planned for this area through proposals proposed by the BH party in negotiations with the International Monetary Fund in the process of asking for credit with this institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26556	Chairman Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26557	I didn't get this question from the esteemed constable Salke Sokolović. The only question I got was about the new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. This issue has not come to my cabinet and there is no problem, as soon as the question comes, we will give you a responsible ass on six Council of Ministers' activities on this subject, and in accordance with the powers of the Council of Ministers. So, in my cabinet this question did not come, as soon as it comes, we will prepare written information and written answers and refer it to the honourable representative Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26558	Commentary, MP Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26559	Thank you. Uh, look, I was consulted yesterday by the Secretariat which I'm going to ask and I gave up this question that Mr. Chairman was talking about for the simple reason that we have here today, the Law of Conflict of Interest has reached the parliamentary benches, and last time I wanted to provoke both the College and the Council of Ministers to have this Law, I didn't have a conversation. Here's today on the subject. Look, this question is very important. So, it's past the Council of Ministers' mandate, and he hasn't done anything to solve this problem. That when the chairman of the Council of Ministers will respond in this term, neither I nor he should be interested. This will interest some new MPs in these benches, or some new Council of Ministers, but I suggest to them, these future members of Parliament, or the Council of Ministers, to start this more fight against crime and corruption, political-like employment, increasing excise duties and a number of negative effects that we have had through the work of the Council of Ministers so far, they haven't had time to deal with this problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I want them to know what a difficult situation is in Bosnia and Herzegovina so as soon as these duties are resolved to pack and leave Bosnia and Herzegovina and find a better life where these people go because they have not, and they have had the opportunity, done nothing to improve the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26560	Thank you. Ambassador Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26561	I thank the chairman. I welcome you and your deputies, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, as well as the others present in the O.R. I hope the chairman gets an announcement from my question. It refers to his exposé. We are now at the end of the mandate and some of the promises, strategic priorities, should be realised or should be explained to us why they did not. In an exposé, the chairman of the Council of Ministers said that the Council of Ministers would have a number of strategic priorities and cited as some of the priorities the establishment of a bank for the reconstruction and development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the adoption of a law on strategic investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At this point, he explained that the Bank for Reconstruction and Development should maintain a sustainable and balanced economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the elements of the privileged status for strategic investment and that this measure, with the adoption of the strategic investor law, will be a turning point in terms of enabling a larger number of foreign investments. The Strategic Investors Act, i.e. Investments, was then presented as a law whose purpose is to reduce regulatory burden on senior investors by simplifying and speeding up the process of obtaining the necessary documentation including licences etc., etc., that I am not repeating his words now. Once I asked this question, I got the answer that it's early and we're only half-term and I should ask that when the term of office is at the end. Here, I have been waiting for the end of my term to ask a question – How long have these two Council of Ministers priorities been exposed to the President's exposé? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26562	Chairman Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26563	Thank you very much. I see that my exposé is one of the most readable readings in the SDP, and it makes me happy and should be so because it is a very serious material that is almost fully realized in all its dominant goals. I don't have much time, of course, but unfortunately I only have two minutes, so maybe I'll talk a little faster. Thus, some six or seven strategic areas are listed, most of which are fully realised or are under way. The first one was tied to the deblockation of European integration times, which had been completely blocked for about seven or eight years, so just at a time when the leaders in the Council of Ministers held SDP members. We have been able to completely unblock the processes of European integration. So, in June, in the '15s, the SAA came into force, all the bodies envisaged by the SAA were established, the work of the Stabilisation and Association Council, the Stabilisation and Association Committee and seven subcommittees, the work of the Directorate for European Integration was significantly improved and strengthened, the decision on the system of coordination of the European integration process was adopted, we submitted the application for membership, we implemented a questionnaire that has 20,000 pages of unanimously adopted answers, we are currently working to prepare additional issues, and we will end all issues from the European Agenda to obtain candidate status. The other objectives foreseen by my exposé were the realization of the Italian conditions. There, again, we had a blockade from 2009 to 2015 just in time when both the defence minister and other SDP personnel were leaders within the Council of Ministers. No location at that time was registered. We managed to register 33 locations at Federation level and obtain a court ruling for two locations in Republika Srpska, thus creating conditions for the implementation of the MAP. We found economic development that the GDP grew from 0.89 to 1.1% because none of the key four strategies were adopted, which is why Bosnia and Herzegovina lost over 400m euros during the period when the dominant role in the Council of Ministers was not adopted, since none of the four strategies were adopted. This Council of Ministers adopted four strategies that we have been waiting for for almost 10 years, transport, rural development, the environment and energy strategy, which is why we received 660m euros on the basis of transport alone, plus 120m euros in grant. IPA funds have been released and the final decision is that Bosnia and Herzegovina will receive 360m euros. The Economic Reform Agenda has been adopted, we have implemented over 80% of the measures, all economic parameters in Bosnia and Herzegovina are on the rise, especially the GDP, growth in industrial production, exports, new employment, new investments that last year have been the largest in the last 10 years. Export coverage has been the largest in the last 25 years, and competitiveness has been significantly increased. As one of the goals there is, say, tourism listed We are among 20 countries in the world with the highest number of tourist visits. [[the speaker is warned on time]] In the final phase of the implementation of membership in the World Trade Organisation, we have adopted all the education sector strategies that are in the power of the Council of Ministers, all strategies of the Anti-Corruption, Terrorism and Crime Sector, including the removal of gray 8 Manival and FATF, we have improved with regard to sport, culture. I remind you we found ourselves closed. The Earth Museum and... the funds in the budget item. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I end up, so we've successfully solved all this, and I'm extremely proud of my exposés, of my work and my colleagues' work in the Council of Ministers because most of the goals have been fully realized. Of course, it is also necessary to continue the activities and to realise these two issues discussed by the distinguished representative Magazinović in order to strengthen the political environment because the establishment of the Fund for Development and Establishment, of course, of the law on investment promotion, can only bring improvements in living standards and security for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, the environment in which we worked, I must say, I am extremely proud of the progress made by Bosnia and Herzegovina on all the key strategic objectives set out in my exposé. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26564	Thank you. Commentary, Ambassador Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26565	You ask the chairman what time it is, and he tells you it's a nice time outside. You say to him, "I didn't ask you what time it was outside, but what time it is, and he answers you, it can tell you any hour." That's what this answer looks like, so none of what the man was talking about, I didn't ask. He set up a very simple quest – As long as he was with the strategic investor law and as long as he had established a bank for reconstruction and development, man took the paper and read what he had prepared just to pass the time. So, this is disrespecting the MPs and the House of Representatives as a whole. Mr. Zvizdić, the man owns the word until he says it. When she makes excuses, she becomes her slave. You said an hour of words in your exposé. I didn't ask you what happened to the agriculture ministry you promised, where the National Security Council you promised, where those security strategies you promised and the million-dollar promise were. He asked you for two and you didn't, you spoke two minutes longer and don't draw attention to my time. So, at the beginning, you also said, quote -- we can't, said once Albert Anštajn, and quoted by Denis Zvizdić, solve the problem the same way they were created. You have proved it with this mandate and with this answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26566	Thank you. Question, MP Hanko Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26567	Thank you, Chairman. I warmly welcome everyone in the O.R. Actually, I have two questions. Waiting for an answer to the first of two and a half years ago, about a month ago, I asked a new one with a question why I hadn't been answered so far. I had nine more before the question, four and a half months ago, referring to the Peljega Bridge, I never got an answer. This second issue concerns the border, maritime border crossing in Neum, and I asked the Council of Ministers, above all the chairman, why at the session, and was held at the Council of Ministers meeting on June 5th, a proposal for the establishment of an international border crossing for passenger traffic, the travel traffic of Neum was expelled from the proposal for a basis for negotiating and the conclusion of the treaty on amendments and additions between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on border crossings. Practically this was a unique opportunity, who knows when more will appear, that this contract is being reviewed, revised, supplemented, amended, the 2013 Treaty, which was at the expense of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then Croatia entered the European Union and, behold, was an opportunity to do so. When the Negotiation Platform was created, only one item was practically expelled from it, it is the border crossing. If the Council of Ministers stresses the then adopted Platform for Negotiations with the Republic of Croatia, they want to permanently resolve open issues in the interests of the citizens and businessmen of the two countries, I asked whether they believe that the establishment of a border crossing for the maritime traffic of Neum is not worth the above-mentioned interests of both Bosnia and Herzegovina, our citizens, our businessmen even so much that the issue, even after 23 years, cannot come to the agenda of the Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina, even as one of the points. What I specifically asked this time is, in fact, a reminder, a question – why, four and a half months ago, I asked myself, is not responsible about the Pelješki Bridge, what has been done? And here, we've been witnessing these days that it's precisely on my issues, because I haven't been getting into the metrics, asking only how to solve the controversy created, how do we get the Croatian consent of Bosnia and Herzegovina, how do we say that we didn't give that consent? And we witnessed that Mr. Wigemark obviously knew something more about it, that he respected The secrecy of our chairmanship, and the public is confused about it. [[the speaker is warned on time]] That's what I asked. I've never been answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26568	Okay, thank you. Chairman Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26569	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26570	Thank you very much. So, I will give a brief answer on the draft agreement on amendments and additions to the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on border crossings. So, a specific part of this issue of yours we have left behind for the second phase of amendments and addition of the Treaty, because before that we have adopted an analysis of the effects of the deployment of foreign ships and of trade in part of the Adriatic Sea, which belongs to Bosnia and Herzegovina with recommendations, and we have entrusted our ministries of transport and communication, security, foreign trade and economic relations to coordinate the implementation of recommendations and to submit one to us in the next period, one report on how we could then be fully determined on new border crossings. At this point, as you say, we have actually accepted the views of representatives of a number of institutions who have worked to prepare the draft contract, including representatives of the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Communications and Transport, the Border Police, the Directorate for Direct Taxation, the Office for Veterinary Affairs, the Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Protection of Plant Health and the Draft Contract at this point, i.e. the Treaty itself looks like this. As soon as we get this Recommendation Analysis we will enter the second phase of the analysis of the border crossings in general in Bosnia and Herzegovina not only with Croatia, go to the changes and additions of existing contracts, or those adopted during this period.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26571	Thank you. Commentary, MP Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26572	I'm not satisfied, of course, with the answer. I also pointed out, in fact, that the same Council of Ministers' meeting at the 9th session of 02.06.2015 adopted this Analysis of the effects of the deployment of foreign ships, but I asked – Why, this time when the platform was created, why and how did the Council of Ministers, particularly chairing agree that only this item should be thrown out of the possibility of negotiating it? Of course, the first question about the Peljev Bridge was not answered, and this time it was a question. That's something that's really confusing, after 23 years we can't go first, so Croatia has its own border crossings, we don't have it, the first nearest Neum is in the boards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26573	Thank you. Question, Ambassador Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26574	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. So, my question has been raised to the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Ministry of Security, the Anti-Nrcotics Commission at the BiH Ministry of Security, the Medicines and Medical Resources Agency of BiH – Why have they not yet undertaken activities in accordance with the 2017 initiative, initiated by BiH Federal Parliament representative Denis Grac as regards the decriminalisation of cannabis for medical purposes? Has a competent commission been ever established at the Ministry of Security in whose professional jurisdiction this issue is, if who are members and members of the commission is formed? If the committee in charge has been formed has it considered this initiative and has it reached any conclusions, that is, its expert position or opinion on this matter? The reason is simple and all known, that unlike the recreational use of cannabis the consumption of cannabis for medical purposes is subject to different legal treatment and is allowed in a significantly larger number of countries. One of us neighbouring countries is the Republic of Croatia which has since 2017 legalized the use of cannabis for medical purposes. Who would use this? A large number of Bosnia and Herzegovina's population, we know that 11 patients with cancer have been increased, which would significantly ease their problems that go through like nausea and vomiting caused by chemotherapy. It would also help those who are suffering from anorexia or AIDS, and consumption of this would result in stimulating appetite. However, the use of cannabis and its derivatives is most common in the range of pain relief therapy and muscle cramps, especially those caused by multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, dystrophy in which their effectiveness is confirmed by a certain number of medical currents. I hope to have an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26575	Thank you. Do we have anyone from the Ministry or the Council of Ministers who might respond? I see there's no one from the Department of Security, so we don't have an answer to this question. Ambassador Maja Gasal-The Vražalica, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26576	So, the BiH Ministry of Security has a minister, has a deputy, I have counted all relevant committees and agencies that could also prepare an answer to this question, so Mr. Chairman Zvizdić could read the answer and give me, whether this question or someone from the Council of Ministers. I really cannot believe that on such an important question none of the Council of Ministers will give me an answer, and here is a man when he thinks and when he compares what Mr. Sokolović asked, what Mr. Magazinović asked, and what was the answer of the Council of Ministers' chairman. Bosnia and Herzegovina should go a step further, so cannabis is not for medical purposes but for daily consumption, that we have legalisation because this man can no longer endure this behavior in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26577	Damir Arnaut, question.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26578	I thank the chairman. Directed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. I've already tried to ask this question three times in writing, twice to the Board of Directors of BHRT, once to Mr. Zvizdić in May and I still haven't received an answer, and that's why I decided verbally. So, BHRT's Management Board appointed Mrs. Pejka Medić last year as BH Radio 1 director, according to media reports from that time, Ms. Medić, on her profiles, on social networks, pointed out now, and media reports – a gift to friends from Kosmet, where the photograph is of men holding carved woodwork with figures of convicted war crimes in Srebrenica and crimes against humanity against Bošnjak and Hrvat during the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Radovan Karadžić, convicted war criminal and Chetnik movement commander Draže Mihajlović, and Ratko Mladić, accused of genocide, complicity in genocide and crimes against humanity, as well as that, again, I quote, among her publications, there is also a photograph of the military cemetery in Bratunc with the inscription: "If you are silent today about Srebrenci, you are not talking about Sretanci tomorrow". Since I have not received an answer, and I have asked three times, my question is very clear and precise – is it a member of the Board of Directors of BHRT Mr. Šefik Memija, who was appointed to the Board of Directors of BHRT, although he was a third-ranking candidate on the list of RAK and on the list of the competent Commission for Transport of this House, did Mr. Memija vote for the election of Pejka Medić as BH Radio 1 Director? A very simple question, I would really like to get an answer – yes, no, or possibly was restrained, and not to hear your exposés from three years ago again, as you replied to Mr. Magazinović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26579	Thank you. If we have someone, here we have Chairman Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26580	I came out because the honourable representative said he was asking me a question, but I don't understand why, according to the laws of the Council of Ministers or I have any connection with the members of the Board of Directors, I would like you to tell us that the public and representatives and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina hear it. BHRT Management Board as referred to in Article 26. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Television Service Act and members are appointed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from the ranking list of candidates submitted by the Regulatory Agency. The responsibilities of the Management Board shall be to appoint, resolve the Director-General and give consent to the appointment of holders of the highest programming functions. The Parliamentary Assembly has the authority to take a decision on a discharge in a member of the Management Board if I request a resolution, three times unjustly left from the session or not participating in work within 3 months, and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, whose member you are, also has the authority to decide on the resolution of members of the Management Board on the basis of a recommendation from the Regulatory Agency if a member of the Administrative Board did not respect the conditions laid down in the system permit or from the BH Radio-Television permit. So, in the complete system, neither I nor the Council of Ministers have any jurisdiction, nor any procedural procedural role, and I do not understand at all why this issue does not remain within the framework of those in charge, which is the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26581	Commentary, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26582	Thank you. But the problem is that Mr. Zvizdić seems to be unclear, according to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, oral questions can only be asked to the members of the Council of Ministers and when there was no response from the Board of Directors of BHRT twice, when your written reply was missing since 15.05.2018, I decided to try to get YES or NO answer on this issue and it is now in no way clear to me why you are running away from this responsibility, which is why the problem is to say here whether Mufid Memija voted ZA, v or was restrained on a specific agenda. Why is that answer hidden? Why did Mr. Džafeorivić insist on the appointment of Mr. Memi even though he was only third on the RAC ranking list? Why did Mr. Džaferović ask the SBB to ignore the RAK ranking and agree to the third-ranked Memija? We did not agree to that, but someone should explain the 13 motives of Mr. Džaferović if Memija was only two months later after he was elected to vote for a war criminal. And I just want to remind you, the position of director of BH Radio 1 has remained vacant because the former director, Reverend Milan on the SBB's proposal appointed Deputy Mayor of Sarajevo, and then we get Mr. Džaferović, who insists on Memija, and then his memija appoints Pejka Medić as the Greater War Crimes [[the speaker is warned on time]] Ratko Mladić and Radovan Karadžić, and even Draža Mihajlović, do you honour. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26583	We're done asking questions to the Council of Ministers. As part of the previous issue, I would like to introduce you to the College of the House reached agreement on the following reports: Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency for the period 01.01–31.12.2017. the year, number: 05/8-04-785/18 of 06.07.2018 and the second Monitoring Report of the Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015–2019. and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015–2019 for the period May 2015 – December 2017 applicant Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of Anti-Corruption, issue: 05/8-04-601/18 of 06.07.2018. These reports are thus considered adopted. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As regards the addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following, the following is added to the agenda: point 4. MPs' request: Saša Magazinović, Jasmin Emrić, Mirsad Isaković, Momčilo Novaković, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Borislav Bojić, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalice, Damir Bećirović, Senad Šepić and Lazar Prodanović to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-19955/18 of 28.08.2018. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Mr. Senad Šepić signed up for the first discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26584	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, this is probably the last session of Parliament in this session, right? So, I will not understand at the end of this term any logic of you who led this Parliament, therefore the College, about one of yours, as I would say, the relation to initiatives, ideas, desires, debates that really fit those topics that are important to people, therefore that come from MPs here in Parliament. With this in mind, here, I have a question today – why aren't there two things on the agenda that we did yesterday on the Constitutional Legal Commission, all of which ended up, about the initiative to introduce a category of self-employed people into the current laws on the work of all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the other one that refers to the excise duties of one based on tobacco, the other one based on fuel excise duties? We have completed all these procedures, here will my colleague Salko Sokolović speak about these things, lure them into the agenda today at all. 14 So here is why I propose that, given that so far, if we did this analysis, we would see a stop from leaving the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for three years we have been talking about it, at the beginning of this year we adopted, so this Parliament adopted this initiative, tasked the Council of Ministers to do the job, and you let it go. When we do it here, we finish what is up to us, we commit others, you after that do not perform any of your functions in the sense that you ask the Council of Ministers to respond to what is Parliament's request, if the Council of Ministers doesn't respond, then we are looking for other mechanisms to conduct the debate here in Parliament and without their materials, but to simply know who is responsible, who doesn't have any kind of fair relationship with the problems that we bring here. So, stopping people from leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina, for three years, we never found it appropriate to put it on the agenda and talk about it. Here's the Excise Act, I mentioned, half a year, the Electoral Law, at the end of last year, I proposed the Electoral Law on that electronic vote and the second part to sanction people who steal elections, here's a bill to end this term of office, and we never put it on the agenda, that tissue, uh, that kind of bill. Not to mention the protection of farmers, the safe purchase, the guaranteed price, the one and the safe purchase of agricultural products I've also talked about for three years and asked this Parliament to find that kind of capacity in this regard, to force the Council of Ministers, if it does not know that the Council of Ministers should continue to assume that this is what the Council of Ministers goes from there. And here today, I propose, so these two points of the agenda, is the first one – an initiative to introduce a category of self-employed people. It's a famous story of those friars about how we will systematically ensure in Bosnia and Herzegovina not to force our smart people out of this country but to protect them here, to bring them legally into the system, so to reduce this work on black, to ensure that these people are health and pension insurance and to ensure, by agreement between them and the state, that, with a certain relationship of the paushals, they enter into the systems in BiH that people are legally, honestly, earning and working and staying in this country. And the second is the story, the second point of the agenda is to stop the negative trend of leaving people from BiH, that is what I said, so – Information on the non-realisation of the conclusions and earlier obligations of Parliament, with the title: Stopping the negative trend of leaving BiH people with a programme of measures for the employment of young people in BiH. So, I'm not naive to think that today at this session, we can do something in particular that we've been ignoring for over three years, so, but we have to send a message from here, and I think it's a brilliant sentence from fellow Sokolović who says, people who have in this way brought the country into this state, they need to leave this country, they need to be defeated in these elections, and they need to go where hundreds of thousands of people who have had to leave their country of BiH with this kind of politics. So here's this matter if, for who knows what time I'm taking it here, and I hope we have so much responsibility for this country to have one fair debate and to say, so what is our position on these two positions in BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26585	Thank you. Ambassador Sadik Ahmetović. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26586	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and colleagues, I propose today's session of the agenda to include an initiative tasked by the Council of Ministers to prepare and refer to the procedure of the draft language law in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Reason, in accordance with Article II of the Constitution of BiH, position (1) and position (2) relating to human rights and international standards, and in accordance with the Framework Law on Fundamental Education, Article 7. The law, which reads – the languages of the constituent peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be used in all schools in accordance with the BiH Constitution, all students in schools will study letters that are officially used in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it is very important to pass this law in order to avoid this existing discrimination in different parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina depending on where individual, individual constituent nations are in the minority. I am undermining that I know the most about what is happening with the Bosnian language in Republika Srpska, so I think that the adoption of a law like this would regulate the public use of language and all that would be useful to stop discrimination, child abuse, etc. be useful for the future not only for children but also for stabilising and political opportunities and relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26587	Ambassador jasmin Emrić. Mr. Emrić, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26588	I thank the Honorable Chairman. For today's session, I propose a new agenda item under the title – Request for the BiH Council of Ministers to draw up and submit for the first next session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to discuss the information that reads: Information on activities related to the start of the construction of the Peljega Bridge. We all know that the Republic of Croatia has started building the Pelješko Bridge, and we also know that in earlier sessions of this distinguished House we discussed activities related to the start of the Pelješko Bridge, we adopted the Declaration, in that Declaration in points 4 and 7. The Council of Ministers has taken the obligation to inform this important House of those obligations within 60 days. However, until today, the Council of Ministers has not fulfilled its obligation in accordance with points 4 and 7. Declarations, so I think it's very important that we discuss this subject today. But why didn't I suggest that we discuss this issue today? Because I have experience with the Council of Ministers, we wouldn't get that information today, we would be denied that information, and I have a concern that our debate would be missing. Therefore, my colleague Backović and I have decided to give the Council of Ministers a chance to develop detailed information on the activities related to the start of the building of the Pelješko Bridge to see what the Council of Ministers has done in relation to the commitments undertaken. It would also be good if the Council of Ministers could come up with information that the BiH presidency has taken on the adopted Declaration, and that we have a quality debate in this respected House. I'd like my colleagues and colleagues to support this agenda item. Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26589	Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26590	I thank the chairman. On behalf of the SDS Club, we are asking for the removal of item 19 from the agenda for the reason that we have not received a report from the Council of Ministers on this initiative for the replacement of the Honorable Minister Mektić, or a report from the Minister within 48 hours before the start of this session. The second thing, the realization of this initiative would come, would lead to a serious violation of the Council of Ministers' Law and we would have a situation that, if it were realised, we do not have a minimum of 1/3 of ministers from Republika Srpska. I therefore propose that this item be removed from the agenda, since we have no basic assumptions about the Council of Ministers' report, I assume that the Kolegijum has sent this initiative and the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26591	Thank you. Salko Sokolović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26592	Thank you, Your Honor. As an authorised promoter, I, Mr. Šepić and Ahmetović, delivered the draft law on amendments to the Excise Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the parliamentary procedure. Do you know when the chairman? May 15th of this year, and today is September 04th of this year, so over three and a half months, the inclusion of this Law into the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly is boycotted, from which we see. This, it tried through the Constitutional Legal Commission, and the process lasted for a long time, through the Finance and Budget Commission, also lasted a long time. We succeeded or managed on July 05th of this year that the Commission for Finance and Budget to adopt an opinion of 4 votes for and 1 against, and to approve that it is going to the Parliamentary Assembly, and then the Constitutional Commission did not do so, and yesterday, in some hours, it ended this story and it was logical when all the business provisions were fulfilled to make this law an integral part of today's agenda, and this is the Law amending the Act on Excises, and I propose it on the agenda. So, three-and-a-half months of blockage, when you want to work fairly, then you have a blockade in this House. So, we're the one, then we're thinking we want to do an emergency procedure, so we're not going by emergency procedure, we're going to go into regular procedure to give our fellow Members and colleagues the opportunity to read and propose certain changes, maybe they don't agree to cut the price of fuel 15 fencing, maybe somebody wants the price of excise duty, etc. 12. So, let's give the opportunity to discuss it and work honestly and then the commission, the College and the Council of Ministers, all point out on each side to block that proposal for you. We have fulfilled our conditions, and I demand that he be placed on the agenda today, and I filed a request. And another thing, the initiative to purposely direct 5% of the annual collection of funds based on tobacco excise and tobacco processing. Yesterday she was on the committee, here's 17 here for my opinion, but there's no initiative on the agenda. Therefore, she has fulfilled all the business assumptions that she should be an integral part of today's agenda, and I propose that she be, but yet I note why fair work in Parliament must be blocked by those who can manage certain procedures in this House. That is why I call on colleagues and fellow Members to support that these two projects, meaning the Law and this initiative, are now an integral part of this agenda, to discuss and to give all our contribution to the realization of good for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26593	Thank you. Hanka Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26594	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, I would support this proposal to include the point, as part of the agenda discussion, the debate on the Pelješko bridge so much that we are all confused, here I had a proposal to conclude and I do not understand what it means – the College did not achieve agreement. What is the agreement, that the Council of Ministers provide us with information whether or not it is, to place more points or to know how far we have come, whether or not it is held at a session with the government, the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia discussed and what is concluded about the construction of the Pelješke Bridge and here are the issues of property. Someone can't get us information. These days, 15 days ago, we witnessed a little euphoric emotion, on the one hand we will not be built, we will not, on the other hand, be built, we don't even know that secret, and that was the reason, and that's the secret that Mr. Vigemark is hiding now and the chairman of Izetbegović, chairing the presidency. So we don't even know that character, whether she's gone or not. I don't know why for this session, the question is we'll have more, there's no agenda point included, we're just excited when a journal of work with Chinese performers is signed. Well, that's already done, which we're not told, that's just it. Thank you, so absolutely this point that God is today.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26595	Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26596	I thank the chairman. So yesterday, the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives was held at which the proposal was discussed, i.e. my initiative to remove the sheets, and that final proposal after two years, was given the necessary majority and my question was, then, after two years we finally managed to pass the procedure to find it on the Constitutional Commission, to get support from colleagues and colleagues – why is it not on the agenda today? So, all the necessary conditions are created, the materials you have, why not on the agenda, and if you're going to use an argument already heard here and there in the halls of the Parliamentary Assembly, that you've already closed the agenda two days ago and that it is what it is, then the question is why did we come to committees and create these conditions to find something on the agenda, and you've already closed it 18 before, before maintaining the necessary commissions. If you don't have an answer to that, I demand that it be put to a vote and found as a part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26597	So, the College put forward a draft agenda on the basis of which points met the conditions at that time to find themselves on the agenda, meanwhile, as you say, yesterday was held, several commissions and on these commissions passed several other issues and here I see that now in the procedure almost all these issues are put as a request for an extension of the agenda and it will be put to the vote here. So it's not a closed agenda, the agenda is open, this Parliament will be determined around the final agenda. Zaim Backović, discussion. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26598	I thank the chairman. Well, a member of the 70th agenda, you see, you know very well that the commissions form their agenda on the basis of the proposed agenda of the House, and this is the second time in a row, I support all colleagues who have spoken, and Mrs. Vajzović, and Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica, this is the second time in a row in the last three months, last time it was with the Law on Conflict of Interest, as it is not placed on the agenda, there is no commission opinion, and the agenda, the draft agenda should be an indication to committees for their agenda. It's the same thing here right now, I really support all of these suggestions that all of this, all of these points that have passed the commission stage, are met the conditions, to be put on the agenda, not to say that this is what an extended college should have done, because the extended college was sitting yesterday after all the commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26599	So, the commissions are not working on the agenda of the House, but commissions are working on materials that are regularly delivered to them as they pass the procedure. So it has nothing to do with the Commission's agenda with some draft agenda for the House of Representatives. Zaim Backović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26600	In a situation where this microphone and this hall are used exclusively in something called pre-election, we are trying to go and ask this Parliament to talk and work in the interests of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It does not stop and the work of Parliament begins with the appointment of one another, nor does it begin and end life in this country and does not begin life from the elections, and does not begin with the elections. When it comes to the initiative that my colleague and I have submitted, and regarding the construction of the Peljega Bridge, we need to know gentlemen, and no one will publicly say how long it will be to suspend the possibility of even moving a vessel in and out of Neum in the course of construction. Do you know that there must be pontoons to close the passage towards Neum? I was able to see part of the project documentation through private communications, and see how it would be accessible to the box positioning of pillars, or to pour out pillars, and how it would look. Has anyone received any information as to how much access we will have to the vessels in and out of Neum? It's like one. 19 Second, amazing things happen, and that is only because people prefer it, which is by the one that was published in Bosnia and Herzegovina in March when Professor Šabanović wrote – We prefer other people's garbage than ourselves. We're convinced that the worst alien will do us better and that he'll be a better brother than our first neighbor. We're the people who will do anything to destroy ours by forgetting that other people's garbage will eventually destroy us. This is a quote, so quotes. Now, that's someone else's garbage we like better than our own. Neum is ours, and instead of turning to guard, we want to destroy it. I'm very interested, there's the Council of Ministers, they're the ones talking, how did the idea of a central mobile central bridge go missing, so there's no height anymore? [[the speaker is warned on time]] No more altitude. [[the speaker is warned on time]] What happened so that part of the project went missing? So that's your lift in the central section, in case of need, the bridge.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26601	Mr. Backović, this is a debate, do you have a proposal on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26602	To be placed on the agenda because we need to do this as those responsible, and based on the conclusions that this House has made on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26603	Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26604	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the College, Council of Ministers. I just called to say that I'm against the proposal to put amendments to the Rules of Procedure proposed by my colleague, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. I object to any proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure which does not go in parallel to both homes and which is not the result of the work of colleagues from both homes. By adopting God Bog this Rules of Procedure, the amendments to the Rules of Procedure proposed by the colleague, we would have brought colleagues to the House of Representatives in a completely different situation compared to colleagues in the House of Peoples, and I think it really makes no sense. Of course, when I say this, then I'm completely relieved because I'm sure this decision won't apply to me because I'm not a candidate or I'll be a candidate for the House of Representatives in the future, so this decision has nothing to do with me, but it has to do with my position in general on the rights of fellow Members of Parliament who I've been publicly representing for four years. And now I want to publicly say that this populism, which when we discuss the Law on Conflict of Interest, will be much more visible, will cost colleagues in this Parliament, unlike colleagues in all other parliaments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the basic fundamental human rights, which are the right to work and to exist. I was saying it and I want to say it in public at the end of this term and repeat it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26605	Thank you. This closes me up, Maja Gasall-The Gasal-Vražalica, correcting the wrong quote. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26606	So, call something pulsism, something that has passed the whole procedure parliamentary, so either on committees, received the necessary support and should be found, whether, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, on the agenda of this session or some other session, I do not really know how I would call it yours, and it is certainly your right to make known when it comes to the agenda in accordance with the procedures. The second thing, if, since my colleague came to me, if we are now to prepare again and to deliver to you in writing what is already in the procedures, I, on behalf of the Democratic Front Club, then I am asking for a half-hour break to prepare for you everything that has passed the commission procedure, so that I can re-deliver you to the hard copy. Unbelievablely real.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26607	I still have to take a break to prepare the materials for these numerous agenda changes, which means half an hour's break. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats to continue your work. So, we have this, the first proposal from the Senad Šepić to supplement the agenda. Consider the initiative of Senad Šepić, who reads: "It is on the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, Official Messenger of BiH No. : 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15 I submit a parliamentary initiative to introduce a category of self-employed in the applicable laws on the work of all levels of government No.: 01-50-1-1651/18 of 18.05.2018." For 12, versus 15, abstention four. There's no general majority. So no new point has been accepted. Under two - Information on the unrealisation of the conclusions on the inclusion in the agenda of the point titled "Stopping the negative trend of leaving people from Bosnia and Herzegovina with the programme of measures for the employment of young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina", proposed by MP Senad Šepić, number: 01-50-1-15-64/18 of 04.09.2018. I'm putting it to a vote. For 12, versus 15, abstention 3. The general majority doesn't exist. So no agenda has been accepted. We move on to the proposal of MEPs min Emrić and Zaim Backović for the addition of the agenda – a request to the BiH Council of Ministers for the first next session of the Parliamentary House of BiH to produce and submit to the discussion of the information that reads: Information on the activities related to the start of the building of the Pelješko Bridge, MPs point: jasmin Emrić and Zaim Backović, issue: 01-50-1-15-64/18 since 04.09.2018. 21 I put the proposal on the agenda. For 16, versus 11, abstention four. There is a general majority, there is no entity in Republika Srpska. Get back to work later. Next is the article by Aleksandra Pandurević for removing the item from the agenda. Proposed to remove the 19th Point on the agenda – A motion to vote on the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers of BiH, MEPs: Staša Košarac, Lazar Prodanović, Dušanka Majkić, Nikola Špirić, Milica Marković, Miroslav Milovanović, Borislav Bojić, Đorđo Krčmar and Jovan Vukovljak, issue: 01-50-11731/18 of 26.07.2018. I'm putting the motion to a vote. For 18, v. 10, abstention 3. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. [[/consultations in the College.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26610	Adopted. So it's not this 19. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26611	It's not 19. [[PAUZA]] ♪ don't go in ♪ 1. The adoption of the minutes with 62, 63 and 10th emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Request of a Member Maja the Gasal to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-1-1626/18 of 16.07.2018 and 29.08.2018; 4. MPs' request: Saša Magazinović, Jasmin Emrić, Mirsad Isaković, Momčilo Novaković, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Borislav Bojić, Maja Gasal Vražalica, Damir Bećirović, Senad Šepić and Lazar Prodanović to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No. 01-02-1-1955/18 of 28.08.2018; 5. Proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in BiH authorities, proposing: MPs Borislav Bojić, Hazim Rančić, jasmin Emrić, Diana Zelenika, Damir Arnaut, Saša Magazinović, Senad Šepić and Maja Gasal Vražalica, issue: 01-02-1-2573/17 of 31.10.2017 (first reading); 6. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, issue: 01/1-50-3-62/18, link number: 03/7-02-4-367/18 of 17.04.2018 (first reading); 7. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's law in 2017, applicant: Central Election Commission BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-1190/18 of 06.07.2018; 23 8. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Completion of the conclusions from the 45th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, material of the BiH Direct Taxation Authority, issue: 01/3-50-3-21/17, link: 01-50-1-15-45/17 since 06.07.2018; 9. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Jasmin Emrić on the debate on the Information on the implementation of the Emergency Action Plan and the implementation of the activities related to the migrant crisis, promoters of the point: Borjana Krišto, Nikola Lovrinović and Predrag Kožul, issue: 01-50-1315/18 since 06.07.2018; 10. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Salko Sokolović to discuss the report on the reasons for not taking the Agency for the development of higher education and quality assurance of BiH's full membership of the European Higher Education Security Organisation (ENQA), with a concrete proposal for measures to eliminate perceived weaknesses, applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01-50-1-2527-1/17 of 06.07.2018; 11. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on Senad Šepić's proposal to include a new item in the 63rd session of the House of Representatives, which reads: Information from the Council of Ministers on the lack of realisation of the initiative on system support and protection of agricultural producers, as well as on the principles of establishing a guaranteed price and the safe purchase of domestic agricultural products in BiH, 01-50-1-15-63/18 since 06.07.2018; 12. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the flag of BiH, Proposer: MEP Saša Magazinović (law in first reading), shortened procedure, number: 01-02-1-1206/18 since 27.07.2018; 13. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Office's work report on BiH's 2017 complaints, issue: 01,02-50-19- 1258/18 since 27.07.2018; 14. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament's Hanka Vajzović on the debate on the Information of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the grounds of non-execution adopted at the 59th session of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary House of Representatives (proposer of the Council of Ministers jasmin Emrić), issue: 01-50-1-15-63/18 since 27.07.2018; 15. Report – a detailed analysis of the work of the BiH Export-Credit Agency with a special emphasis on business with the "Unis" - the Dervent tube factory, with a proposal for measures to address problems in the work of this agency, applicant: Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, issue: 01-50-1-15-50/17 since 17.05.2018; 16. Annual consolidated internal audit report for 2017, Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02,03-16-1-1329/18 since 31.05.2018; 17. Consolidated report on the financial management and control system in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, material of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, issue: 01,02,03-16-1-1330/18 of 31 05.2018; 18. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2017, the Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01.02-16-1-2627/17 since 29.05.2018; 19. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in 24 BiH institutions (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-377/18 of 27.02.2018); 20. The appointment of the Deputy Director of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, the Commission's ranking for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption, No: 05/8-34-1841/18 since 01.08.2018; 21. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1478/18 since 21.06.2018; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Saudi Development Fund – Construction and Reconstruction of a number of hospitals in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-05-2-1902/18 since 17.08.2018; 23. Consideration of materials marked "confidential", number: P-Pov-07-03-10-5-38/18 of 03.05.2018 (Note: Material for the 6th point of the agenda, due to confidentiality, is available exclusively to the security officer of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and cannot be delivered. You can get an insight into the materials in office no. 215 (II floor) every working day from 9 to 17 hours. Please take your seats to continue your work. Do we have a quorum? Here goes another one. That's two, two. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26615	Is anybody there? How many of us are there? Give you a break an hour, if there's no one else there then we won't...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26616	Look, I'd have to take a break from an hour ago... _________(?) So give it to me. Well, I wouldn't if I didn't have to, but, look, if there's no quorum, and if there's no quorum after an hour, the session stops. So please let's see if we have another one so we don't all get harassed together. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26619	Come on, cut it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26620	I have no choice but to take a break from the Rules of Procedure for lack of quorum for an hour. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26621	We'll continue at 13:40.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26622	13:40 follow-up. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats. We have determined that at this point there is a quorum for continuing work. We move to point three – Request of a Member of the Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devils to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-1-1626/18 of 16.07.2018. You have received the proposal for a law with an emergency procedure, the legislative and legal sector Opinion delivered in its opinion on 31.07.2018 that the bill of law did not comply with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure, which is in line with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In accordance with the Opinion of the Legislative Sector, Parliament of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vagalica provided an explanation of the proposed law. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. We have, above all, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26624	I thank the chairman. Just to see which member of the Rules of Procedure you skipped points 1 and 2 of the agenda. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26625	Po, I ran a session on what my papers were in front of, you're right, so we skipped the dots. Let's go to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes with 62, 63 and 10th emergency session of the BiH Chamber of Representatives' House of Representatives You have received a record and I would like to introduce you to the MPs Senad Šepić, Salko Sokolović and Sadik Ahmetović, 25.07.2018 to the Secretary of the House of Representatives, who sent a letter to the 63rd session on the conclusions proposed in the framework of the Information on the project PRO-Budentity and Peace Platforms, stating that they voted by mistake for the conclusions of Nikola Lovrinović and Staša Košarac instead of against, thinking that it was a vote on the text of the Peace Platform. They asked for their reaction to be formally recorded when adopting the 63rd session of the House. I'm opening a debate. Zaim Backović, damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26627	I would like to know in which way the College will agree in the event of a need, because you are not there, and on the other hand I would like to know how we will vote when we have only three objectively three MPs from Republika Srpska's entity. So there's not much of it, there's no conditions. I'm asking Mr. Secretary to answer that.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26628	So we're going to vote on the Rules of Procedure, so if there are no conditions for alignment there won't be an agreement, if there aren't enough MPs that some point will pass from the entity won't pass the point. So we have conditions for working towards the Poslovink, there is at this point a quorum, or quorum is a condition for work. Momčilo Novaković, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26629	Thank you very much. I will lean on my colleague Backović's discussion. We have formal business conditions, or quorum for work but we have no quorum to decide. In this composition, we can now adopt no point, or any decision, no law, 27 no conclusion, simply no entity majority from Republika Srpska, no alignment and everything goes to alignment and so until the end of the agenda, so I think further work is pointless. I suggest that unless a third member of the College comes along and meets this second condition for reconciliation, that it really doesn't make sense, there's no point in continuing to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26630	Please, we do not have any notice that a third member of the College will not come, but we do have a notice that a third member of the College will come and we have worked so far when one member of the College has not been present and so far just functioned in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, we have working conditions right now, we probably don't have conditions to vote on, but this isn't, but there's going to be a phase of voting in the emergency decision-making, now if there's no conditions for voting at that point, we're going to figure it out. So, I suggest we have a debate on what it's like for the Rules of Procedure and then see if we have conditions to vote on. If there are no conditions for voting we will consult on how to proceed or interrupt the session, I think that's logical. Zaim Backović, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26631	The Honorable Chairman of the Rules of Procedure is a whole, the Rules of Procedure are not segmentary and are taken from it as a basket from the market one tomato, one onion, one, it is a whole, and the whole means that all conditions must be met in order for Parliament to work. We don't have these conditions at the moment, we don't have the opportunity to possibly adopt any item of the agenda that we're going to discuss. In that case, we have a situation to discuss and speak in vain, to no one, for nothing, for nothing, we still have to act as responsible MPs. Is it just lar-pur-lar, art because of art, work that we do, that ultimately the result is equal to zero, if that's our goal is not a problem, because I am present, those who are not present for this are responsible. We do not have inside the entire Rules of Procedure met the conditions for continuing the work of this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26632	Can I hear by which member you think there are no working conditions? There isn't, there's no member, as far as we know, who is supposed to interrupt this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26633	Just tell me how you vote in this House, that's where you're appreciated.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26634	I cannot explain to you how you vote in Parliament, if you have not learned for these four years how to vote in Parliament you will not learn now. Senad Šepić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26635	Mr. Chairman, since a member of the College has arrived, so this discussion of mine is no longer making sense, so we are now very soon at this point where we should vote on the urgency of the procedure. So if we don't have this kind of quorum that we're talking about, then we can take the next steps, and by then we have the opportunity to do it and I suggest we do it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26636	Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26637	I thank the chairman. This is also addressed to Mr Backović, Mr Backović and Mr Šepić. This is extremely serious matter and do not play with this, Mr. Backović and Mr. Šepić, this is the Constitution of BiH, in Dayton he has purposely prescribed that the quorum is made up of most members of the House of Representatives. The BiH constitution does not speak anywhere about any majority or quorum for work, especially the decision-making quorum. You're playing with a Dayton category that's targeted so no one else can block the work of the House of Representatives by their absence. The quorum is most elected members, it's 22, we have quorum. As for the decision-making process, it is not prescribed anywhere that the members of the College are all three present, unless there is an entity majority in the first round they can consult outside of this room and then move on to the second round, and in the second round you do not need 1/3 from Republika Srpska, but any law and any decision will pass unless it votes 2/3. We here today have the opportunity to vote on every point and even to adopt every point, and I find it amazing that my colleagues from the BPS and the Independent bloc here are here because someone tried to block this House's work are taking part in this attempt and are calling for the session to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26638	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26639	Dear fellow Arnaut, I have not mentioned the Dayton Peace Agreement for a moment, if I start to mention it then we will come up with a lot of things that are unconstitutional, among other things, and a large number of the Rules of Procedures that we are working on. I didn't even mention it. The way the Rules of Procedure on the work of this House made us work was adopted in the period when, changes and additions, when they were MPs of your political option, among other things, were proposing for this kind of vote. So what we have here is a fact of fact, and you know that only by ceif, and not by realistic needs, the gentlemen of the College say we go to the second round or leave for the next session, you had an example today. Today you had one go to vote, the other we do not delay, and the third we do not delay, and the fourth we do not delay, it is well known to you. In order for us to be able to work normally, to adopt something eventually, we would have to have a situation in which we have met all the conditions laid down by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26640	Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26641	I thank the chairman. 29 Be careful, we have a quorum to work with and there is no reason not to discuss and not to work, we do not have a quorum to decide on, because I will remind you that there is an authentic interpretation of OHR which clearly says that when making decisions must be attended by 1/3 of the MPs from each entity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26642	When making decisions, that's right, we don't have the quorum to decide that's clear. After all, every vote will stop in the first round. All right, Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26643	They're all thrown away by some terms that don't exist, so let's find a document that says the term "squarum for decision-making". I guarantee you there is not one single document that says "the quorum to decide". In the Constitution of BiH you have the word "kvorum", the quorum makes up most of the MPs elected to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26644	Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26645	.... I was just saying everything with the intention of doing, I don't know if, what kind of ears he was sitting on, so he kind of needed to comment, react, call, teach someone Dejton and some other stuff, there's no need for that. I think so many frustrations, so many, as it is called, immature and immature, we've heard a comment here from Mr. Arnaut, the need for each one, as it is called, to be smart. So, I was talking about finding a way to do it, and not at all any chance to interrupt the session, and I was talking about now that we need to do it and we can do it, if we come up with another step that we're going to find a way out of it and we're never going to get out of these attitudes, not to say what, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26646	Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26647	I thank the chairman. According to the Dayton Peace Agreement, OHR is the top interpreter of the Dayton Peace Agreement. It is precisely because of these situations and because of the vagueness of constitutional provisions that one of the former Colleges of the House of Representatives has requested an interpretation of the OHR. The OHR has given this interpretation and it is in the archives of our Parliament, so the services can certainly find it, because we have received it from this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26648	Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26649	I think colleague Pandurević explained it, what I was still trying to add, and it's obvious that it's a form that matters here, not a essence. Our goal is not to sit here to fulfill the form prescribed by any agreement, including the Dayton Agreement, but our goal is to adopt something today or not to adopt, or at least to make a statement or not to say something, if the goal is no problem for people... we sit here for seven days, I have no problem at all. But it was more than clear at that moment that the coming of the vice-president's office changed, but at the moment we discussed it more than clearly whether the conditions for decision-making were not created. If we're going to sit formally we're going to sit, we're sitting the wave of these 64 sessions one 30 formally, so what's wrong with another one.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26650	Deputy Chairman Šefik Džaferović, a correction to the wrong allegations. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26651	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, although I may have had a need to go out here today for a pay phone for some occasion, I decided not to speak and answer at this session and not to conduct controversy with anyone, but this question is very important and very important and let me say that today we have all the conditions for the work of this House. The conditions for work are called quorum, quorum are 22 MPs as prescribed by the Constitution and as prescribed by our Rules of Procedure. We had this debate, which was one difficult debate, here in Parliament as early as 2007 and 2008, who was a member of Parliament could understand all the depth and seriousness of the topic that we are treating here in Parliament today. So, 22 MPs are quorum, the decisions require most of those present and voting, with at least 1/3 of those present in the first round of the majority of entities, and in the second round 2/3 of those who fail to agree on the entity territory and these are the two terms used in the BiH Constitution by no accident. So, even today, if we have a third of those present from the entity in the total majority, we have a decision, if there is no third, then we're going to go for a second round. You know how it goes, if it works out, if we agree to go right into the second round, then it's that the decision would be brought down 2/3 of those who are against and who are chosen, so the elected, the total number from the entity. So that's the way out that the BiH Constitution has prescribed, and I suggest we stop all these discussions and start working. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26652	First, let me inform you that at this time we have five MPs present from Republika Srpska, I said that to see if we could interrupt this debate. Mr. Sokolović, are you staying on your application? Correction of the wrong allegation, Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26653	Nothing, I didn't know what Mr. Džaferović was going to say, but this is exactly what I wanted to point out and I laughed a little while I listened to what people were saying, here's the relevant legal and I don't know what kind of 31 experts, but it's probably this long-term experience here gives me the right to know what way to vote and that quorum is enough, that the finding after the first vote is a simple majority, a lack of entity alignment and a second round. So, what Mr. Džaferović said, and that's why I'm surprised that any of us here need to argue, except that there's some need to break this up and go home, and I don't think we should be doing it anyway. Here's what I wanted without knowing that this is what Mr. Džaferović is going to say, and that's what we're all talking about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26654	Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26655	Well, I think that Džaferović's colleague has been denied one mistake, that is, that he knows it absolutely, but that it has been subdued, namely, he said – that decisions are made by the majority of the votes that are present and who vote with the presence of 1/3 of each entity. So that's not true, so it's about 1/3 of the total number and not the entity present, which basically means that most must always include at least 5 and at least 10 of these two entities. So, without that, there is no decision, says Article 80(3), so – if most votes do not include 1/3 of the votes of the MPs from the territory of each entity chairing and its deputies will meet as a committee within 3 days. So, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26656	Momčilo Novaković... BOY
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26657	I can't do this. I can't do this. I can't do this. I can't do this.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26658	Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26659	I thank the chairman. Correction of the wrong quote to Mr. Novaković and this all shows why this debate is extremely important. It's not true, Mr. Novaković, that's exactly what I said first, and then Mr. Džaferović repeated it. In the first round, it takes 1/3 of those present from each entity, so it stands, read the Constitution I will not, in the Constitution of BiH when you ask where it says, present from each entity. In the second round if you don't win in the first round 1/3 for, in the second round, the decision is adopted unless it is voted against by 2/3 of the elected, so the total number.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26660	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26661	It's true, Mr. Novaković, it's true, we know something about this issue, believe me. And that is why this debate is so important and I am sorry that Mr Backović and Mr Šepić have settled and started to deal with procedures that have been targetedly incorporated into the Constitution of BiH in Dayton, aimed at preventing the blockage of the House of Representatives. So, if someone tries to block the work of the House of Representatives, although he has a quorum that's defined by the Dayton Agreement to make him... most of it, will not have a favourable result by itself because decisions can then be adopted in the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26662	Aleksandra Pandurević, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26663	First of all, we have a 5 here from Republika Srpska. Secondly, I would really like to ask the secretary, because I am in this Parliament, I am sorry at home, I am keeping this document, standing on my desk constantly, getting from Parliament the interpretation of the OHR which was delivered to this Parliament. The second thing, as far as Mr. Arnaut is wrong, says the following information – a built-in clause that makes it impossible to block. If no one comes from one entity 1/3 of 0 (zero) is 0. Then why don't we have sessions when there are no MPs of one entity, let's say from Republika Srpska no one's here from the Federation, there's quorum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26664	Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26665	Absolutely not, here is Sadik Ahmetović, elected from the RS entity and if he comes, decisions can be made if he votes for her in the first _____________(?) Damir [[no microphone turned on]] in the first, I say to you these are serious questions, concerning the BiH Constitution, and therefore I insist so much, and I am sure that Mr Džaferović, for the same reason, insisted on this issue, really he and I know something about this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26667	Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. _________(?) 33 [[no microphone turned on]] Now, if you'll excuse me, you have, this is your third correction to the wrong assumption. BOY
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26669	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26670	Momčilo Novaković, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26671	I am a crazy member of the 85th, and I have to have this debate with the prominent lawyers, says attitude (2), and here I will read and attitude (1) – all decisions in the House are made by the majority of the votes of those present and voting. Position (2) - MPs will make every effort to include at least 1/3 votes from the territory of the entities, not those present. ... logically, this interpretation is, look out for the people... For 20 years and now we've been interpreting it, I can't believe someone's interpreting it differently, or reading it differently. The attitude (3) says – if most don't include 1/3, and now I'm going further, the second circle where it has to be 2/3 etc. But it is clear that most of the decision includes 1/3 of the entity territory, not those present. Now, if we're going to have to work this out, then I don't know how we've been doing these four years. Well the X decision we made here because of the lack and 1/3 we didn't make in the first round and if it was like now, here's the 4 present, so 1/3 is, more than 1/3 is two. So, two from Republika Srpska could make it look right now, and it can't... If anyone thinks that the warning of the inability to make decisions is interpreted as an attack on Dejton and the institutions, then I must say that those who today's most defensive institutions have done the most in these four years to keep these institutions at the bottom. I haven't done it. I've been in this business for very serious four years. So this interpretation is actually bringing this institution to the bottom.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26672	Damir Arnaut, only Mr Arnaut, this is your third violation of the Rules of Procedure. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no limit. There's no limit. There's no limit. Here you go, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26674	Thank you. So the same member of the Rules of Procedure, who is Mr. Novaković, has been eloquently quoted, or has stopped, because now I am not sure whether he stopped because he saw what he was reading or didn't want to read any further, but – if those efforts fail to make the decision will be made by the majority of those present and 34 vote on the condition that the votes against include 2/3 or more of the members elected from each entity. So you have those present and then elected, so you should read the article to the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26675	So please, you're opening the debate here, so here we've been working on the principle that there must be 5 in the first round, 5 votes from Republika Srpska and 10 in the Federation, so there are computer programs that monitor the vote here and now you're opening the story of whether it's 5 or whether it takes one for us to be here, I don't know, 4 present. Well, I can't believe it, so please don't open an argument about something that's clear. Sadik Ahmetović, a correction to the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26676	So if it's up to me it's not a problem when it comes to this House being a state, I'm here, but there's something that, strange to me, we at the last session discuss how we decide, it's funny, it's that, for fun, that Maped show. At the last session, we're spilling our minds on who's right, we have 5 MPs here from Republika Srpska, let's stop that debate that, yes, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 has, I think there are 5 can be done, let's stop this debate. If anyone needs to have some public debate, get some sort of NGO, get you organized, get that, and discuss who's right about who's wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26677	Correction of the wrong allegation, Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26678	Just to add to this, so if there's no 1/3 of one entity, I'm not going to say which entity, if that entity wants protection then finds it in the College, if the College doesn't agree on that delaying the plea, it's going to be transferred to the next session and whoever thinks it is, it's going to be damaged to secure the quorum for the next session. I don't know what's controversial about all this, but here we have a 5 and we can do it. Therefore, it is the College that can at some point protect someone's position, regardless of which entity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26679	Nikola Lovrinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26680	Good afternoon, everyone. I'm saying hello. I'm calling for the first time. So, as counterpart Sadik Ahmetović said, here at the end of the term, everyone can now see that Hrvat are not even important, whether they are there or not. I'm looking for a half-hour break, so make a deal, gentlemen, without us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26681	Half an hour's break. [[PAUZA]] Please, please take your seats. Please take your seats, let me inform you that at this point there is no quorum for holding the session and that according to the Rules of Procedure we would not have the possibility, we could not, we would not have the opportunity to continue our work. I'm willing to consult with the S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26683	There's 22 man entered, continue with the session. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26684	All right, let's get on with it, S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26685	There's no quorum... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26686	We don't have a quorum again. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26687	To count, wait, 3, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-04-0.u26688	We don't have a quorum, so I just want to consult with kolegij whether he needs a new break of an hour or since we've already had an hour's break to stop the session because of the inability to secure the quorum. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Come on, say it. _________(?) Can you tell who's not here? I mean, let it go, is these people that are coming, who are active here, who want to do something, it turns out now that we need to be here, that we're suffering. Find out who's gone and ask people to come work, if we're going to work.
