ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26174	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 63rd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak delivered a notice that he would not be able to attend the session due to his absence. The cabinet of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Minister Denis Zvizdić has been informed that the chairman will not be able to participate in the work of the 63rd House session due to a meeting with the prime ministers of Bulgaria and Macedonia. The cabinet of the minister of civil affairs has been informed that Minister Adil Osmanović and Deputy Minister Goran Ćosić will not attend the session. The absence from the session was justified by Deputy Chairman Borjan Krišto and MPs Monika Tomić, Denis Bećirović and Nikola Špirić. According to the Office, 35 MPs attend the session. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are in line with the order of arrival, and the messengers will present them in this order. First I give my word to Ambassador Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26175	I thank the chairman. My question is for the Minister of Security, who is not here but I want to ask a question and insist on a written answer. The question is this, we are witnessing that the cases of the murder of Dženan Memić and David Dragičević are still unresolved, we testify that numerous and controversial cases are related to these two cases. We know that there are a lot of questions without answers and that there are a lot of those who seem to be preventing the truth from being found out. We are witnessing citizens' fears over, not only these two unsolved murders, but how things stand for a larger number, at the very least, the strange circumstances of the deaths of persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We see protests all around us, people are afraid of murderers, people are afraid of injustice and people are afraid of possibility and suspicion that institutions are protecting murderers. I don't ask who killed Dženan Memić and David Dragičević, but I ask: Is there any information about the system hiding murderers? Did the entity and cantonal police agencies seek assistance and assistance from state institutions, SIPAs, OSAs or any other, in efforts to reach the truth? What information does the Ministry of Security have on these cases, and can the state institutions help find the killers? Thank you. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26176	Thank you. We don't have anyone to answer, like you said. The next word I give to the MPs Mensura Beganović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26177	I thank the chairman. I was going to ask the agent's question to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, actually maybe it's not even the right address, but here's what you can get in response. So – Will the new Education Cooperation Agreement between Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina be ratified until the start of school or academic 2018/2019. A year? The current educational co-operation agreement between Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina is valid until the end of September of this year. The Slovenian ministry has approved the extension of this Agreement and is waiting for the agreement to pass the approval procedure since January of this year. As far as I know, only at the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury was the agreement waiting for approval for more than a month. The interest of our students and students to study in Slovenia is certainly much greater than the reverse interest of Slovenian students to study in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that this slowness of our administration is only to the detriment of our young people. So if the extension protocol... The educational co-operation agreement between Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina will not be approved by the competent institutions within a very short period of time, and we have already extended this work in Parliament, to say, lost an additional month, the monogae students will be in a very invisible situation and pay full tuition for what they want to study in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26178	Thank you. We don't have a civil service minister, as I've already announced. Let's ask Member Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26179	Thank you, Chairman. I also referred the question to the Council of Ministers, I was actually expecting an answer from the chairman, he is not and I don't know if it makes any sense now that, if I can pass it on to the next session, because it is very much about the border crossing, the maritime border crossing in Neum, which the chairman of the Council of Ministers has removed from the authority of the newly formed commission that was to make amendments to the Treaty on Border Crossing with the Republic of Croatia. That contract was very negative for us, and now it was an opportunity to revise it and the chairman simply shut down that one point, and that was my question, and I would like him to answer it when he's here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26180	Questions to which there is no one to answer go for automation at the next session. I give my word to Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26181	Mr. Chairman of my question I intended to refer to the Minister of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers of BiH, unfortunately he is not here today, but I will ask him regardless, I hope that he will be able to respond in writing to this request regardless of his enormous commitment to various press conferences. Therefore, residents of the municipality of Zvornik who have a residence outside the municipality of Zvornik and who are situated in municipalities, the area of municipalities which are situated in the municipality of Zvornik are not able to cross the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the site, so on the bridge, on the old bridge in Zvornik, or the Bridge of King Aleksandar Karađorđević. Since 9 October 2015, this possibility has been disabled by crossing with the identity card of these residents. I am interested – why did the competent ministry, or the BiH Ministry of Security, not initiate the removal, i.e. the signing of a new interstate agreement or annex of a state agreement, since the current agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia on cross-border traffic from 2007, which regulates this issue, does not apply? When will the Ministry of Security take concrete measures that would allow residents of neighbouring municipalities of Zvornik to, that is, Šekovići, that is Bratunac, that is Srebrenica, that is Milići, Vlasenica, but these are also the municipalities of Sapna, Calesia, even Tuzla, that citizens can freely cross with the personal cards of this border crossing? There are more, therefore, reasons, if someone wanted to move to Mali Zvornik, unfortunately, they were often forced to have a need to cross this border crossing, they would have to go 5 to 7 km actually more, in two directions that is 14 km and they would have to have their own passenger vehicle. I see no reason why this, this problem is not solved I think there should be good will between the BiH Ministry of Security, or the Council of Ministers of BiH and the competent ministry of the Republic of Serbia so that citizens of neighbouring municipalities, without any interference, will have free movement from different needs, even that is often about medicines or other needs that they want to meet. Thank you. I'm expecting a written response from the D.A. to this.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26182	Okay, thank you. Ambassador Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26183	Thank you very much. So, my question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, it's very current. The public is known that the Independent Block was against the introduction of additional excise duties on fuel. The independent bloc's employment club here in the House of Representatives was following the adoption of the Excise Enlargement Act in January in the procedure of an initiative to determine the maximum amount of the oil and oil distributor margin. That initiative called for the Independent Block to limit the margins of oil and oil distributors and to take over some of the purchasing burdens. The BiH Parliament adopted such a proposal on 20 February 2018 and tasked the Council of Ministers and entity governments to realise it. Since there was no feedback, there were no 4 responses, and then on 27.02., I sent the first open letter and the emergency before the meres, and then on May 8, second, June 11th, third. The initiative was asked by the BiH Council of Ministers to carry out checks, together with competent entity institutions, on how much oil and oil distributors' margins in Bosnia and Herzegovina per litre of fuel, and on those legal limits and reductions, all in order to transfer part of the collection to their burden due to the introduction of additional excise duties. Since February 2018, a total of six increases in fuel prices have occurred, so that a liter of fuel costs more than 50 fening per litre. As a consequence of the introduction of these excises, we have a rise in prices, chain, cost of life and all that follows one such event. So, my question is – Why has the Council of Ministers so far not responded to anything in this sense and thus provided us with a written what it did, why has it not done what was part of their job and how it is possible that when citizens go out into the streets, since they told us before that they had no open market, free price formation, which is a complete fraud, so how is it possible that when citizens stop a car one hour on the streets to find a solution after that? These ministers, therefore, in the way they treat their military bosses half-tronically, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't even after that, even those here in Parliament who have been so collectively defending their ability to adopt excise duties, have been, after that, worried about the addition and forced their ministers, who, in this way, behave their positions, to cut the price between 5 and 10 fening. I ask the Council of Ministers to respond – why did what had an obligation not work in time and what was the reason? [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26184	Thank you. Question, Ambassador Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26185	Thank you. This is gonna go fast. There's no one on the other side. He's not getting up to answer. You see, I have been waiting for months to answer whether the BHRT Management Board member Mufid Memi, who was third-placed on the RAK list and on the list of the competent Commission for Transport and Communications, is still on the College's proposal, and especially after Mr Džaferović's insistence, appointed to the Management Board – Did Memija vote for the selection of BH Radio 1 director who had previously posted pictures of Ratko Mladić, Radovan Karadžić, as well as offensive Srebrenica status? I've asked this same question twice to BHRT, but they refuse to answer. Now I see, I've now referred a question to Mr. Zvizdić, but here he is. I will repeat this issue at all the next sessions, because I think it is necessary to get information about the Memija vote for Pejka Medić's election, because then it also draws the responsibility of those, and especially Mr Džaferović, who voted and advocated Memija's choice in the BHRT Management Board, although he was third-placed, not only on the RAK list but also on the list of the competent Commission for Transport and Communications of the House of Representatives. I insist that I get this answer and that Zvizdić finally appear in this room and give us an answer, and one of his ministers might. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26186	Thank you. Ambassador Mirsad Isaković, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26187	I thank the chairman. My question was addressed to the Council of Ministers, and it was possible for other institutions dealing with the collection and distribution of public revenues. Therefore, funds from the Single Account or indirect taxes are present in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all budgets of between 75% and 80%. The allocation of these funds and the collection of these funds is quite intransparent and incorrect. We have also made sure of this, for example, an isolated toll party where the income of one entity is 27%, and the distribution is required 39%, although it does not belong to this Law but should be a special agreement. Such allocations and such revenues are therefore present in the Single Account where there is a law which determines exactly how much of the funds. What is interesting is, therefore, that more resources are being poured into the Republika Srpska than funds are being invested in the Single Account, i.e. income. I want to point out here that certain cantons, or parts of this country, are really neglected. In the distribution of public income, we have that Brcko District, for example, the best example or illustration, we can make as an example is Brcko District where it gets 2% or somewhere around 171 million on an annual level, and a canton like the Women's Doboj, a canton where it has about 400,000 inhabitants, so it gets only 180 million. Or if we take the example of the City of Brcko and the City of Zenica where Brcko has a little over 80 million, and Zenica gets at least 20 grand more, only 20 million not full, and Brcko District 171 million. I think this is enough to characterize the situation at least incorrectly, for the simple reason that the distribution of public income is not correct. Comes, so, spilling how out one entity to another, and from the Federation to the cantons, therefore, is not even. [[the speaker is warned on time]] As a result, the criteria at the distribution of public revenues have long been overcome and the criteria under which there are and weights, therefore at a lower level, are no longer relevant. I ask the Council of Ministers and I have therefore asked such a question – When will we see the new Law on the distribution of public incomes? Since there's no answer, I think that this is the topic that is most important in this country, because we can't agree on the distribution, then I don't see what we can agree on. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I expect an answer from the Secretary-General, or the Minister-in-Office, or the Prime Minister-in-Office and not the Minister-in-Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26188	Thank you. Question, MP Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is to the Council of Ministers, it's about the compromise of the Excise Act and the compromise of the fact that over 100 million are, some figures are different, 105, 108, 110 million, and KM is collected on account and that these money stands. I'm least interested in what this is about, but the question of responsibility here must inevitably be raised. The law was passed with the intention of being the driver of the investment swing of Bosnia and Herzegovina, however, these money in this way and the relationship to the funds collected is practically nothing 6 significant when it is, when the activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina are at stake and logically, it would be that someone has to ask the question of responsibility. I ask whether it is the Council of Ministers, which can raise the question of responsibility for those who are unable to deploy those funds, or if someone else is, I propose and ask the Council of Ministers to suggest to that other body that can raise the issue of responsibility, and also to replace all those who have not made it possible to implement this law. Thank you, but there's no one to answer that question for me, so please, if anything else can be delivered to me as soon as possible in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26190	Okay, thank you. Ambassador Salko Sokolović, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26191	Thank you, Chairman. My question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the subject is the Law on preventing conflicts of interest. The conflict of interest is very widespread in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it has very serious consequences for citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as public office holders put their interests ahead of the work in the service of citizens. The preservation of trust is one of the most important women elements of the functional government, and confidence in the institutions of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina is constantly suffering the consequences of unresolved conflicts of interest. Since the existing Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is inadequate and dysfunctional in early November 2017, a new law was sent to parliamentary procedure. Support for the new Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests was given by GRECO, meaning the Group of the Council of Europe's States to fight corruption, the European Union and the OSCE. However, this Law has not yet come to the House of Representatives for consideration, everything is reportedly in the Constitutional Commission, given that it has given the Council of Ministers the opportunity to adopt an opinion on the proposed legislative solution. For seven months, however, the Council of Ministers has not been advocacy and does not deliver an opinion to the Constitutional Legal Commission, although the need for the urgent adoption of this Act is increasing from day to day and the Constitutional Commission has no position, it is awaiting the opinion of the Council of Ministers and does not begin to consider the draft law. I note that improving this legal framework to resolve conflicts of interest is part of the Reform Agenda and a key step on the path towards integration into the European Union. Therefore, any further delays and recommendations in considering the bill's proposal will negatively reflect Bosnia and Herzegovina's readiness to implement essential reforms. Question of the Council of Ministers Chairman – When will the Council of Ministers submit an opinion to the Constitutional Commission under the law in question, how would the Commission carry out the debate and the new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest refer to a further parliamentary procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26192	Thank you. Question, MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests 7 I asked the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Namely, the question is - Who recently allowed the installation of telecom equipment in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building and the Council of Ministers building in a situation where the College of the Secretariat denied consent to these works? There's a number of acts here, but I don't need to read it. Has this, but also other communication equipment in the building, passed a proper review of the intelligence and security agency's competence to ensure, among other things, the protection of classified data held by Bosnia and Herzegovina in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building and protects itself in accordance with the domestic law on the protection of classified information, but also respecting the provisions of international bilateral agreements whose signature is both Bosnia and Herzegovina? Is it true that there are several so-called so-called people in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building? security zones, or areas subject to special protection under domestic and international security standards, and do those areas possess domestic or international licences confirming their compliance with relevant regulations in the field of protection of classified information? Is it possible that Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers or any other ministry or other body located in a building in the event of a reckless relationship against these issues loses its license? And is it true that the proposal submitted by the company referred to in point 1 contained the detailed floorings of both axes in Bosnia and Herzegovina Square No. 1, and who and whose authority has granted the flooring to a private company or any third party or body with the exception of security agencies directly responsible for the security of both buildings?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26194	Thank you. This concludes the question. Before we move on to the agenda, I'm taking a break for lunch by 3:15. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats so we can get back to work. Let me inform you that points are removed from the agenda: point 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman for human rights of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers, issue: 01-02-1-2568/17, of 30.10.2017 (second reading), Point 8. Annual report on the results of the Ombudsmen's Imbudsmen's Imbudsmen's Imbudsmen's activities for human rights 2017 – submitr: The Ombudsman's institution for human rights BiH, issue: 01,02-37-776/18, since 19.03.2018, because the Joint Commission for Human Rights did not hold a session. At the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, point 6 has been removed. Proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH – Proposer: MEP Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalalica, No: 01-02-1-1290/18, since 28.05.2018 (first reading), 8 Point 7. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives, issue: 01/1-50-3-62/18, link number: 03/7-02-4-367/18, from 17.04.2018, Point 10. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2017, issue: 01,02-09-1029/18, since 23.04.2018. Point 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers, issue: 01,02-02-1104/18, from 04.05.2018 (first reading), a shortened procedure, was removed from the agenda because the Joint Commission for Labour Control of the Intelligence and Security Agency did not hold a session. Points 13 to 28 of the earlier agenda relating to agreement on ratification of agreements and contracts were removed from the 63rd session agenda because the commission did not hold a meeting during that period, the Foreign Affairs Commission. The Commission held a meeting this morning and gave its opinion on the above mentioned materials, as well as on the contracts delivered in the parliamentary procedure, which are: the Agreement on the financing of Corridor 5c Mostar South between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, issue: 01,02-05-2-1485/18, of 25.06.2018, the Agreement on the financing of Corridor 5c Zenica North between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, No: 01,02-05-2-1486/18, of 25.06.2018. You got the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission on the bench. By decision of the dom Kolegijum in the extended composition of the 71st session, held on 04.07.2018, with the amended and updated agenda of the 63rd session, which was set out at the 70th session of the College in an extended composition, held on 19.06.2018, it was downloaded: point 8. Consideration of Tatjana Klecanin-Klječanin-Martić's request for discharge of the duties of a member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, issue: 01,02,05/1-34-1382/18, of 07.06.2018 and Proposal for a decision on the discharge of an independent board member as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, No: 01.02-34-1382/18, since 14.06.2018. The following are added to the agenda: point 2. MPs' request: Aleksandra Pandurević, Mladen Bosić, Nenad Lalić and Momčilo Novaković to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No. 01-02-1-1453/18, of 18.06.2018, Point 8. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Commission for concessions of BiH, materials of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, issue: 01,02-34-1-1415/18, of 1106/2018. The proposal is to now add these agreements which have passed the procedure in the Foreign Affairs Commission as a complement to the agenda on which we must declare ourselves under the procedure. 9 I'm opening a debate. Borislav Bojić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26196	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. In the finale itself, you said about the agreements, I was apropo and I was going to suggest that since an unusually small number of agenda points are for this session. Otherwise, when it comes to agreements, we have considered them very often in the package. It is interesting that there is no agreement in this session, so I believe that the Parliamentary Assembly will declare itself. With that in a relationship, and using it when by Article 71. I propose to the Rules of Procedure that the agenda of the 63rd session be completed, from point 8 to item 9 to 26, and it is about giving, therefore, consent to ratification of international agreements and contracts that I would not like to read in order now, described here, and I will give it all to you in writing. Since there has been a practical procedure before the Commission itself and I do not see any reason why the Parliamentary Assembly should not put this session on this item of the agenda, which is usually held every time, with these sessions that we held, it was the debate in the Parliamentary Assembly, and the manner of the declaration is whether any of the agreements will be supported or not, we leave it to the MPs. That's why I would like to give this case in writing to you chair and to ask the Service to share this proposal with the MPs. Here you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26197	Thank you. Debate, jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26198	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I propose a new agenda item to read – Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the reasons for the non-execution of the Conclusion adopted at the 59th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, issue: 01-50-1-15-59/18, since 21.03.2018. This distinguished dom adopted a conclusion at the 59th session – the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives tasked the Council of Ministers to draw up and submit information from a joint session of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia held in Sarajevo on 7 July 2017 on talks and conclusions regarding the intention of the Republic of Croatia to build a storage and disposal of radioactive and nuclear waste at the location of Trgovska Gora, a microlocation of Cerkezovac in the Municipality of Dvor, the Republic of Croatia. Given that the Council of Ministers did not respect this deadline set by the Conclusion, to provide the requested information, which means that it did not implement the House of Representatives' conclusion, I propose that the Council of Ministers be made aware of why it does not carry out the conclusions of the House of Representatives. I would like to remind myself that for a year I am asking the Council of Ministers for information from a joint session of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the topic of construction of a landfill of radioactive and nuclear waste at the location of the Shop Gora. I used all the parliamentary options, from the oral question, from the written question, and we all testified that the chairman of the Council of Ministers was surprised why he did not answer my parliamentary question in writing, and that he would do so as soon as possible. For this speaker, it has been promised to me as a representative by the 10th chairman of the Council of Ministers. After that, of course, none of that promise was made because this Council of Ministers obviously forgets its promises. I asked, and this esteemed dom has accepted, to consider the agenda item required by the Council of Ministers to provide this House with information on this subject. This conclusion was adopted and, behold, from 21 March 2018 until today, this conclusion has not been made, and the Council of Ministers has been deafened about the execution of the House of Representatives' Conclusion So I'd ask the Council of Ministers what they're hiding, if they're even talking about this subject, and they have obligations. [[the speaker is warned on time]] In accordance with the earlier conclusions of this House. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26199	Thank you. Senad Šepić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26200	Thank you very much. I suggest that today, on the agenda of this session today, two points are set up. The first is – Information on the reasons for the unrealisation of the initiative to determine the maximum amount of the oil and oil distributor margin. And in the previous part of the session, I again updated that parliamentary issue. The public is known that on 20 February this Parliament adopted an initiative we proposed and tasked the Council of Ministers and entity governments to react in this regard. After that, we don't have any answers. So, three times I've written the urens, written the open letters, asked for a reaction, no reaction whatsoever. So, the public, and we, too, about the view in Parliament that we have adopted such initiatives, deserve to be answered by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the people of the Council of Ministers for why they do not actually do their job and why they do not realize what this Parliament has given them as a commitment. So that's the first point of the daily, first proposal. The second concerns information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the absence of the implementation of initiatives in systemic support and protection of agricultural producers, as well as ensuring the principles of establishing a guaranteed price and a safe purchase of domestic agricultural products in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So here in this room, and the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is known that, here, for almost three years, I have been talking about these system solutions and how, what should be our role, what is it that we can do to put this area into operation and protect an ordinary man who works on earth. I know that the people who run the state, they show it every day to the end, so the leaders of this country who lead the country, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, entity, one, the other, until the end of the day when it comes to essentially being made for ordinary man or to stand in the protection of some tycoons, narrow, small groups of people, select this other, but what I do here in Parliament, so what Parliament has the right to know is what's going on. For the first time in August 2016, I submitted this initiative, we had this debate, we had a positive statement by Parliament on this. Furthermore, in July 2017, he repeated it again, in March 2018, in May. Every year, the same problem is repeated that when summer comes, tens of thousands of people living on earth, from the production of raspberries, are always in the same problems. There is no protection of these people, the state does not react to anything in that thought, but leaves them to these buyers, to people who eventually blackmail them that the product they produce at a minimum price must be handed over to them, or that product fails. So, this country and the government and the people who run the country, they're responsible that for three years there's no fair reaction, and I can't say that they don't know how it's done. Here, they had initiative, they had a proposal, they had one clear map of the road. Just take that thing, transfer it to the government and make it a concrete 11 action and protect people. If that's how you want to show that you're really on the side of people, you do it that way. So, here, there's an argument here, there's this whole material, and I expect to get that kind of reaction in that sense today, and this year we have an additional problem because of these weather accidents. When the extra of this crop itself, or what was supposed to arrive this year, is much less than expected, so we have one huge number of people, 30,000 people living out of this. We have no positive action in this regard and a positive attitude towards these people. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I am merely asking to explain to Parliament what has been done so far, three years in the initiatives that I have submitted, written, in one of the most honest ways, why so far nothing has essentially been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26201	Thank you. Debate, Maja Gasal-The Vražalica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26202	I thank the chairman. I'd like to ask for point seven, what is the material that follows on the wu point, since no written material has arrived at the clubs, and also in the file when it opens, there is no folder that would follow this item on the agenda, and how much do I remember at one of the April sessions we appointed members and members of this committee? That there are probably certain problems here, that some members and members do not respond, so that you may inform us as a College, and if you do not have the material, I suggest that you remove this point, unless, until you prepare it as is the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26203	Thank you. So we have three suggestions and we have a request to take point seven off. HEFK
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26204	Mirsad Đonlagić is looking for a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26205	Mirsad Đonlagić, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to admit that Mr. Bojić's proposal surprised me a little bit, to get these points on the agenda, not because I'm against it, of course, I'm going to support it, but it seems to me that for the first time, the Commission has taken place and it wasn't in the agenda proposal. It's always been so far, not all commissions were held the day before, so it was on the agenda. There was even a session of committees on the day of the Paraliament meeting, and even during Parliament's meeting, a commission was held, and there were proposals on the lists. So, because of all of this, I think it's, in the end, incorrect on the part of the College that in this way we need to make 12 statements. But here I am, speaking again, I support this proposal and I don't see why and the purpose of why we met if it's not going to be on the agenda today. This is the first time I have, please, that this is not happening, that we remain principled until the end of our term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26207	It was only this morning that the Commission met at 9 a.m. after the completion of the Expansive College, which established such a proposal for a agenda without those points. The deal is that we propose to change the agenda to fit those points and that's the easiest procedure without any other sauces of thinness, and we didn't see anyone against doing it. So this is a technical matter, Mr. Bojić is formal, I don't know if he suggested it in writing, but regardless, he'll go as a suggestion and I don't see any reason for any problem about it. So, I'm closing the debate on the agenda and we're going to go to a statement now. We have a proposal on the agenda of Member Jasmin Emrić – Information from the Council of Ministers... (?) [[no microphone turned on]] Who? A Bojić? And where is she, I don't have that from Bojić. Is there a proposal from Mr. Bojić? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26211	He went for a copy.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26212	Here he comes. Okay. We're voting on expanding the agenda. The poslanik Šepić proposed to include a new point – Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the lack of implementation of the Initiative on Systemic Support and Protection of Agricultural Producers, as well as ensuring the principles of determining the guaranteed price and the safe purchase of domestic agricultural products in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Prepare to vote. For 19, v. 9, abstention 6. There is a general majority, the entity majority does not exist in Republika Srpska. We don't have conditions to agree on right now, it stays for the next session. We're gonna have to take five minutes to get technical services to put together a new agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26214	And that was, that was, yeah. So, you asked us to take down the 7th item of the agenda – Selecting three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, as far as I got from the Service of Information, it's not what you referred to, but it's a new choice of people who haven't been elected before, but, here, please the secretary eventually if you need to explain what it's about, so if you insist we'll put on...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26215	14 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26216	Well, there's supposed to be three members, so three names. When the debate comes, we'll see what the proposals are. No, so, the College is gone, taught by the fact that college proposals don't go away because of the absence of a congregation majority, when we get to the point, we'll see how we're going to form those three names. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26217	Proposals, then vote, there's no other way.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26218	Are you insisting that we vote on taking it off? Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26219	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26220	I would like to put to the vote a proposal from the House of Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil to remove the agenda of the 7th Point. Prepare to vote. For 15, versus 14, abstention 5. There's a general and entity majority. So we've removed item 7 from the agenda. We're gonna have to wait, now I hear ten minutes, 10 minutes break. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26221	/PAUZA/ [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26222	Today's session has the following: D no vni re d 1. Comments on questions received; 2. MPs' request: Aleksandra Pandurević, Mladen Bosić, Nenad Lalić and Momčilo Novaković to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-1-1453/18, of 18.06.2018; 3. Proposal for a deposit insurance law in BiH (I.) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-1027/18, since 18.05.2018. (first reading), shortened procedure; 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the flag of BiH – Proposer: MP Saša Magazinović, number: 01-02-1-1206/18, since 16.05.2018. (first reading), shortened procedure; 15. 5. Report on the work of the BiH Appeal Office for 2017, issue: 01,02-50- 19-1258/18, of 22.05.2018; 6. The College's report on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal by Senad Šepić to include a new item in the agenda of the 62nd meeting of the Parliamentary House of BiH, which reads: Information from the Council of Ministers on concrete activities related to the protection of BiH's property in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and in the process of adopting the Law on State Property Management in the Republic of Croatia, issue: 01-50-1114/18, since 31.05.2018; 7. Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Commission for concessions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, materials of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, No 01,02-34-1-1415/18, of 1106/2018; 8. Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on reasons for not executing the conclusion adopted at the 59th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MEP jasmin Emrić, issue: 01-50-1-15-59/18, since 21.03.2018; 9. Information on the reasons for the unrealisation of the initiative to determine the maximum amount of the oil and oil distributor margin – Proposer: MEP Senad Šepić, issue: 01-50-1-15-63/18, since 05.07.2018; 10. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty of Finance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the JP Highways of Republika Srpska - Highway Banja Luka – Doboj B, issue: 01.02-50-2-1041/18, since 24.04.2018; 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the European Union accession process, No 01,02-05-2-1068/18, of 26.04.2018; 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Special Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which represents the Directorate for European Integration of BiH, and Sweden, represented by the Swedish Agency for International Development Co-operation, on support of the Directorate for European Integration, No. 01.02-05-2-1102/18, of 03.05.2018; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain on international road traffic, No. 01,02-05-2-1140/18, of 09.05.2018; 14. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding for Co-operation in Education, Higher Education and Scientific Research between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the State of Qatar, issue: 01.02-05-2-1141/18, dated 09.05. In the United Nations, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the State of Qatar on co-operation in the field of health, the production of medicines and employment of healthcare professionals, No: 01,02-05-2-1142/18, of 09.05.2018; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of the Cross-border Co-operation Programme of Serbia – Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 between the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, No: 01,02-05-2-113/18, of 09.05.2018; 17. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation in the Youth Area between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the State of Qatar, issue: 01,02-05-2-1194/18, of 16.05.2018; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Orio Grant Assistance Agreement for the Implementation and Maintenance Phase/Modernisation of the R-435 regional road, Nevesinje – Berkovići, ORI11BA041, between the Kingdom of the Netherlands, represented by the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH, No 01.02-05-2-1294/18, of 29.05.2018; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation for Grant Assistance between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the People's Republic of China, No: 01,02-05-2-1295/18, of 29.05.2018; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Cultural, Educational and Scientific Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Czech Republic, issue: 01,02-05-2-1296/18, of 29.05.2018; 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Guarantee Treaty (Corridor 5c in RS Part 1) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-1220/18, of 31.05.2018; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement (the Republika Srpska railway restructuring project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01.02-05-2-1333/18, since 01.06.2018; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the bat protection agreement in Europe (EUROBATS), London, 04.12.1991, issue: 01,02-05-2-1347/18, of 01.06.2018; 24. Giving consent to ratification Amendments to the Agreement establishing an international organisation ST-EP (Elimination of poverty through sustainable tourism), issue: 01,02-05-2-1348/18, of 31.05.2018; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the conditions of travel of citizens of the two countries, No 01,02-05-2-133/18, of 05.06.2018; 26. Giving consent to ratification of the Finance Treaty (Corridor 5c Mostar South) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, issue: 01,02-05-2-1485/18, of 25.06.2018; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Treaty (Corridor 5c Zenica North) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, No: 01,02-05-2-1486/18, of 25.06.2018. Please take your seats, continue your work. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. Comments to get do not answer parliamentary questions In accordance with Article 170. By this session, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Questions in written form were asked by MPs: Predrag Kožul, Senad Šepić, Nikola Lovrinović and Saša Magazinović. The following answers were provided to today's session: Mirsad hercegovački received an answer to the Demirović raised in Predrag form to Kožul and written Lovrinović at 62nd session, the answer delivered by the Ministry Maja Gasal-Vražalica and Transport, to the question asked in written form at 60th session by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, to the questions put in written form on 56th, 60th and 62th meeting of the reply submitted by the Council of Ministers, to the question asked in Hanka form at the address Aleksandra the Pandurević of the issue of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and to the question asked by the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly, with reference to the document on the subject of the document of Arnaut Jasmin Beganović, asked in the oral Safer of trade and economic relations, the question Damir the Ministry of Communications and Transport, and the response to Senad question asked in the Šemsudin Mehmedović form of the response to the 61s to the questions of the Minister'st. Any comments on the answers received? Commentary, Ambassador Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26224	Thank you very much. I asked the question about these problems regarding migrants – how much the situation with the inflow of migrants in Bosnia and Herzegovina is, therefore, alarming and what the state, what the institutions are doing in this regard, so whether there is an action plan, why the action plan that was made a few years ago is not in place and if it is in function what is happening to it, etc.? I got the answer, but I'd like to ask a concrete answer to the questions I've asked. So there's a lot of information here that is general form but we don't have answers to actual, really asked questions, especially we don't have these, I'd say, clear reactions from the Council of Ministers and state institutions to the current state of affairs today, you know that's one of the most important issues for us right now in the country. We are all aware that institutions do not manage as they should be. If there's no pressure here from these benches or any more responsible approach, there's not gonna be any concrete action. I come from an electoral unit, from the city, from a part of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina where at this point we have almost 4,000 people completely without someone, 18 without the possibility of the local community dealing with all these problems. There's no concrete in that sense of action. I would therefore ask that it be complemented by concrete answers to this material and that in this sense we have such a visible and clear action of the Council of Ministers and Institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26225	Thank you. Commentary, Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked three questions. One issue was about the establishment of a 4G network in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the second issue was about the reaction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to decisions of the Constitutional Court and of individual cities in Germany to the possibility of denying entry into certain diesel cities, and the third issue was about high education, i.e. recognition and non-recognition of diplomats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, given that there was a really broad controversy in the press over the problem which, in my view, was a really deep problem. It's very interesting that I got the answer, here, about two months later about this diesel vehicle. The same question I asked the CEO of Audi in Germany, I received a response from Germany within two hours. And I can't understand the passivity of our bodies that simply... the fact that there is the possibility of 12 million vehicles from Germany, which are practically waste, to be sold across Europe where... it would be the sale of a vehicle in this area, that in Bosnia and Herzegovina no one reacts on this issue. I would, I would, if I had the opportunity, I would simply take measures of reciprocity. We cannot enter Germany with vehicles of category 3, 4, nor can anyone from Germany with those vehicles enter Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's no other solution. But here, I've got some answers, so what kind of answer is, it's actually obvious there's no possibility, no will, no mechanisms to do anything about it. As for the recognition of diploma, you know I want to remind you, one of the, one of the reliefs or preconditions that the international community has set before universities in Bosnia and Herzegovina is that they are accredited. They've all got conditional accreditation, they're not accreditations based on one depth analysis, quality analyses, everything that's done everywhere in the world. These are the processes that await us now. It is therefore an extremely important question whether ENQA has accepted our Agency or not and it is very important to intervene in the Framework Law on Higher Education. Of course, that answer I received does not indicate that there is enough concern or concern for someone, a condition that can be very easy to be problematic for all those who receive a degree in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's not true that it's not a problem, it's not true that it's a thing that can't hurt our heads, and it's not true that there's nothing to do about it. I know here, I saw by the vote, only I can't understand some parties from here from the Federation who didn't support the amendments to the law, I understand the relationship between the entities of one and the other, but I understand those relations, but I don't think that's good. And I am what I said, as I said, that this is a great stain, in my deep conviction, this Parliament, and I expect that those who are next in Parliament, not to work to protect the interests of some who are imaginary, which I cannot define in the best way, but the interests of young people. The forecasts are that between 1.5 million and 2 million young people will leave this area, this region. My people, it's about time we got serious and gave these young people a chance to get 19 educations, that they could work here and eventually take responsibility for this country in the future. Here, I'm trying, my conscience is calm, I've actually tried to do something, because these questions that I've elaborated far more important to me than anything we've discussed today and the previous sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26227	Thank you. Commentary, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I've got three answers, and with no answer I'm not willing to give, there's as many as you want, which I didn't get, but I'm going to comment on all three. So, one answer I got from the dean, i.e. the rector of Tuzla University or University, and I'll remind you, I asked you -- how do the Serbian, Croatian and Bosnian languages are taught equally at Tuzla University, so she replied to me, I was not satisfied with it, that it was all equal, so she told me floscules, which she continued and later. But when I specifically asked her how it was regulated, since I know that the teaching process cannot run in two, three or five official languages, but only one time, then the Dean replied that at the Faculty of Philosophy, where languages are studied, watch out now I speak for the Faculty of Philosophy, there is no study, or there is no study, therefore, cathedral, it has a Bosnian language, there is no Croatian and Serbian, and now I am not talking about other universities, members of the University of Language Learning. And she answered me very interestingly, she says – after finishing, I asked her – how is it regulated for documents, so forms, educational documents she gets after her studies, she tells me – after completing her education the student is issued diploma as a public document. I thought they'd just walk away, listen, so I asked her nicely, she didn't answer anything. Furthermore, I asked her about the national structure of staff at the University, because she is a public, public university and she would have to implement and respect, therefore, the provisions of the Constitution when it comes to filling the personnel in the '91 list. A year. Of course, she didn't want to answer me, but she said there's a public competition going on, that's all. So she gave me a very sophisticated answer. It's the peak of lies and loops that we've been telling ourselves all these years that we're equally represented, that we're equally learning languages, this is just a story for little children. So when I asked her nicely how it was done, she couldn't answer me, of course she couldn't because she didn't say so. The second answer I received was from the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the War Crimes Department, where I asked – where were investigations into war crimes in Miletici, Bikosima, Malinima near Travnik and Zenica areas and in one place by the municipality of Novi Travnik. They told me this way – with this in mind we answer that the BiH Prosecutor's Office cannot provide information on the course of the investigation of these cases because it is secret under the Criminal Procedure Act. I have asked the BiH Prosecutor's Office several times, even in earlier questions, how a person, a family who is interested in an object, can come up with information on the status of the case. So, not what you question, whom you investigate, but whether the object is alive, if you still work on it, what you do. They just told me it was some kind of secret, that it's in the interest of 20 investigations, so there's nothing I can tell me about this. These are crimes, so over 30 people were killed in Miletici, captured civilians and soldiers. An osamnaestogodišnjak-year-old was killed in Sebesic, so there's his mother's statement, he's got it all, I know it, I don't need it, but if you gentlemen do anything, when you're done, when you're going to press charges. There's nothing, so neither here nor here, I don't know how to proceed, I'll see what I can do. And I have a third answer from my New Travnik municipality chief, it's this interesting person, uh, I didn't intend to touch him until he started touching some things that really didn't make sense. So I live in a part of the New Travnik where it has a cemetery chapel and from which he wants to take off a cross that's been there for 30 years, because it's based on some kind of project. So, but it's not just that, it's the chief who causes every bit of trouble in using Croatian language, in editing the city for Christmas and advent. So he replied to me that it was regulated by some of the '89 projects. For years, that there should be some kind of ball up there, that it's a city cemetery. Now I'm getting the hang of it, if you don't mind, sir, I can't, but I'm sorry, I'll just finish up a little bit, then. Is that okay? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26230	Okay, otherwise I saw at one point that...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26231	So you're talking, you're being rude. Mladen
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26232	Five MPs talking on different sides, and really if we need to take a break, let's take a break. Come on, Mr. Lovrinović, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26233	I'm a man, I'm a professor. So I asked him what he's doing, why he's doing it, there's mostly now, that's where the Croatians-Catholics get Hrvati-katolica the most, so maybe he's at thirty funerals one. He replied to me that it was a '89 project. Neither the country has any more, nor the project, nor I know what, but of course it will get an additional question, he hasn't answered me why he's doing it, and I think he's insulting the feelings of some people he shouldn't be doing. He didn't answer that, so I'm going to be forced an additional question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26234	Thank you. Commentary, MP Hanko Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26235	Thank you, Chairman. My question was about the national structure, the one I got the answer for, and I thank everyone who delivered that answer. However, it is so interesting, therefore, the content is very interesting, but it is also very extensive material, so it is not an opportunity for me to refer to it in a brief comment, which should be written more, I say, it is very interesting, but I will take the opportunity to regret that I did not get one answer to the question asked in April. This is about the Peljesk Bridge and those issues I have been insisting on for more than a year. I received an answer from Minister Juska, in which he said, only from him, that the Ministry of Transport and Communications only played a technical role in the issue of building the Peljega Bridge, which, of course, is not true. And based on so far their statements, their behaviour, I conclude, and otherwise it's about the corridor concerning, as well as the land of comfort, this ministry. The issue was first and foremost addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and he probably did not normally answer anything. I expected her to answer, especially after visiting Bosnia and Herzegovina, Commissioner Bulc, and I asked her a question in the European Union delegation. She said – talk to the European Commission with a question. I asked the Council of Ministers what you did to the European Commission, among other things, they never answered me. There was, therefore, a reason to ask, I don't know when I'm going to get an answer, Bog, I've been waiting for two months, and it's no longer unusual for us to wait so long and not get an answer at all, and I have examples like that, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26236	Thank you. Commentary, jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26237	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I have asked the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport a very clear and precise question regarding the collection of the ECO test service in the Federation of BiH. I received a very comprehensive answer which is not concrete and which does not give me the information that I wanted to know, or I did not get an answer to what the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are interested in, from the nasal Federation of BiH, which is – whether the collection of EKO test services in the Federation of BiH is being charged legally. The State Regulation lays down an EKO test service fee of 5 KM, and in the field of the Federation this service is charged in the amount of 22, 32 and 36 KM. Significant financial resources are thus taken from citizens in the Federation of BiH and these funds, unfortunately, do not go to public funds and budgets but go to private firms doing such a service. So I asked the Ministry to state whether it was legal and how it was possible to have a lower act in college with a state act. They do not answer but generally state why they are in charge and what they are doing in the meantime, or what consultations are being done, which I am not interested in at all. I was interested in what they needed to do and whether they could do something in the sense that this matter was improved, that is, to be regulated in a legitimate way. So I'm going to ask the department again because this is not how it makes sense to answer. We use these parliamentary initiatives and ask parliamentary questions in a way that we can resolve a matter and possibly explain to the citizens what they are interested in and what questions they ask us. In this way of our initiative, these questions are offended and it seems to me here only that we are formally, that only the formal Council of Ministers and the competent ministry fulfils its obligation by this answer which gives no information or answers to what we are asking them. 22 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26238	Thank you. Commentary, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26239	My comment is that I have no comment. I can't come to myself to get some questions and answers for a year and a half, even though I keep repeating them here. Is our Council of Ministers, whether directors, agencies, etc. above this legislative body? Who are they who do not respect those who are their employers? I asked you as a College to intervene to get answers, because through you we need to get answers. What's this about? Here it is, about empty benches, we're talking water bottles, twisted glasses, these are our ministers and their deputies and assistants and gentlemen from various departments. Look, it's us, so much respect for this legislative body. Woe to that country that has these two sides like this. Since I've been an MP in this House in that first bench where three chosen people should sit, unnamed, I've only seen one in that bench downstairs on two occasions, hard for us. I guess that's how it's gonna go on, because as they negotiate between each other, that's how it's gonna continue. I insist on getting answers to my questions, I insist. Or that you, like those who chair this body, suggest what to do and what are the consequences of those who will not respond to the legislative body. We're not paratroopers here in their pockets, they're supposed to be avatars who carry out what we're doing, they're overstepping the Dara measure in all segments, but right in all segments. I was in the New Ljubljana Bank the other day to pay a loan, because one of my questions to that effect, I photographed that order, over 400 young people from all parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it's workers, various professions, welders, builders, carpenters, and I don't know who else, they're paying for a Slovenian working visa. And you're telling us here, or we're all talking about the perspective of children. Children, drive us away, shut us up, do everything you can so that we don't give you destiny, because we made it so hard for you that you can't form families, you can't have children, you have nowhere to live, you have nothing to live on, it's hard for you with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26240	Thank you. Just to let you know that the law has been passed, to remind you that the Law on Parliamentary Oversight was passed in April of the month and that it provides for punishment for those who do not provide answers to parliamentary questions, but that there are no sublegal acts defining how this procedure is conducted, so Parliament would probably have to resolve this next. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26241	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26242	You don't, you really don't, I mean no, don't suck. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26243	23 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26244	Please don't, it's not under the rule. Commentary, Mensura Beganović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26245	I thank the chairman. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26246	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26247	I received an answer from the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data on my question – how personal data protection is carried out, how many in Bosnia and Herzegovina have those who are controllers of the personal data of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that answer, which is very short, has no half-page text, is quite worrying, not to say disappointing. What is registered and registered controllers in total 174 at state level, entity levels and in Brcko District, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data should be supervised by inspectors of this Agency, and of the 45 planned perpetrators 26 is employed. There is no information anywhere on how many people are truly controlling the processing, preservation, protection and destruction of the personal data of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Secondly, the second part of my question referred to, which was, in my assessment, my turn to answer this question, the second part of my question referred to the 2016 report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, which pointed out that the decisions of this Parliament had not been implemented, which were aimed at the Council of Ministers to provide the appropriate conditions for the work of this Agency. And there's everything I've been confirmed that nothing happened in the meantime. So we and the Council of Ministers, so indirectly this Parliament, this tall House, does not attach importance to the work of an agency that deals with a very sensitive issue, which is the protection of personal data from all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The third part concerns, I want to draw attention to the fact that we ourselves have very many decisions that are not implemented by the executive authority, and we do nothing on that basis, and the third part of my question was about how, whether and why, if not, a solution has been implemented to the Central Election Commission, when it comes to the public presentation of the property records of elected and appointed officials. And the answer is also very strong, and it says that the point that the Court's decision is, in fact, a solution to the Court referred to the Central Election Commission, to publish the scanned property records on the website is something that needs to be solved differently. So it's a data that can be publicly available, but not in this way, but it can be questioned by those who want to know these data for different reasons, and to be publicly offered on the website is not the only solution. And in the end, I'm still offered to come to the Personal Data Protection Agency to see for myself what they wrote to me. So, they shouldn't have bothered to write me such an answer at all, and I have no intention of going to the Agency to check how things stand for the protection of personal data, I hope that what is in some way implemented, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, will one day improve us, if not for anything else, it at least does require a European directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26248	Thank you. 24 We No More Requests for Comments. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. MPs' request: Aleksandra Pandurević, Mladen Bosić, Nenad Lalić and Momčilo Novaković to discuss the proposal for a law on the amendment of us and the additions of the Act on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No. 01-02-1-1453/18, of 18.06.2018. You've received a bill of law requesting an emergency procedure. The legislative and legal sector has delivered its opinion on 21/06/2018. In its opinion, the proposal for a law is partly in line with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. On 22.06.2018, the Proposers submitted a revised Bill Proposal in accordance with the Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Sector. I'm opening a debate on the procedure, so it's an emergency procedure. Here you go. If there isn't... BORISLAV
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26250	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26251	Borislav Bojić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26252	Can we take a break from the club for 10 minutes before we move to a statement on emergency procedures? SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26253	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26254	So we don't have any more reports, I'm closing the debate. Ten minutes break, then a statement of emergency procedure. We vote five to five. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats so we can continue our work. So, we're here, we've concluded an emergency procedure debate. Please prepare to vote on emergency procedures. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26256	Repeat the vote. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26257	We repeat the vote. 17 for, against 15, there are no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. So, I'm opening a debate on the draft law by emergency procedure. Is there a debate? If there isn't... Diana
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26258	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26259	Discussion, Diana Zelenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26260	Here, I warmly welcome you all. I would like to remind myself briefly that in December of last year, the People's House first adopted this Excise Law and my party colleague, the former president who signed the Reform Agenda, Mr. Martin Raguž, supported this Law and the party's position was that the European path had no alternative. The non-transparency of spending on state money is what we couldn't get past, so that by adopting the amended Law with two dedicated accounts at the Central Bank for Roads and Highways with the guarantee of an international factor, this condition was met. And not wanting further decline of road infrastructure in the state and seeking both to develop the economy and to meet the conditions and ultimately establish the rule of law, the party's view was that the law should be supported. I personally had hope and I was convinced that it would start to build and that, in fact, it would come to the development of road infrastructure, but the bitter reality convinced me and showed that they had deceived us all together and unfortunately with nice promises, I can say freely, had been fooled. So now with six months away, I haven't changed my view of thinking that we need roads with all the benefits they bring, but the very knowledge that these countries are ruled by those who can't agree on how to spend money, that they haven't even made a centimeter of the time, and that the cost of life has increased, margins are determined by the obvious, as I would say, this time I'm going to support the adoption of the bill amending the excise law until the establishment of a new government that will know how to agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26261	Thank you. Safer Demirović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26262	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Of course, I welcome you and everyone present in the O.R. It is known, here, from the means of informing that I am one of those who will support amendments to the Toll Act. I've already listed the reasons, and I'll just repeat them. So it's a drastic and uncontrolled increase in oil prices where we've been given assurances that it's not going to happen, definitely that the entity governments have not responded properly to this challenge, and the second reason is that the doctor mentioned it, which is that, regardless of what significant assets 26 have collected in the account and which are intended for these, to build new roads, new roads, roads, means simply in this co-solidation of power, we don't have the opportunity and we don't have a simple good will for people to agree in which way to share these funds, and we all see that it's better to do this today than to do tomorrow and more intensively with road construction. So here I am again saying, I am one of those who will support this law, although here I am, at the previous all-session sessions where I voted on this Law, which I was at, voted for their introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26263	So I'm limiting the debate to five minutes, although no one has spoken for more than five minutes after this debate, so there's no problem that it's going to be an irregular relationship. Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26264	I thank the chairman. My kolegica, Zelenika, has given good clagworth for the debate, and I mean by my discussion, she has cut ours a lot short. No matter what attitude we had then we who were against and those who voted for the law, we all agree with what she said, that we were deceived. The main argument for the adoption of excise duties was to step up works when it comes to road construction, both highways and regional roads. On the other hand, all those who claimed to be larger ones would be ridiculed than the amount of excise duties and that there would be chain purchases. Today, when it is more than clear that the prices of oil, oil derivatives, gas, fuel, everything, are increased by a much larger amount than that, which is the amount of excise duty, when it is clear that the argument of the increase in the price of oil on the world market is only used to collect oil, and when prices fall, it is never a reason to appreciate it in that same ratio and descend, we can say that we were right, but that it is not a satisfaction to any of us. We saw that in Bosnia and Herzegovina so-called Businessmen who actually showed their true face and showed that the hunters are in a blurry, can't wait for an empty space where they're very willing to jump in and try to make extra profit by hiding behind the state and the law. On the other hand, we have seen the inability, both state institutions and entities, to clearly and without any environment respond to such activities. Why didn't that happen? I don't know. Some say because some of these people are financing political parties so they have this kind of backdrop to do things like that, others say because anyone in the business would do it if the state allowed it. But that's less important, it's much more important that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have shown that this little civil rebellion seen in these few days in cities across Bosnia and Herzegovina when people have stopped their vehicles have shown their resistance and shows that the authorities at all levels have a tool that very simple and, I would say, in a short period of time show that state interventionism can exist even though we all understand that free price formation, etc., lives in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but, therefore, can be achieved whenever they want. I'd go back to that period when the excises were adopted. It has often been said to be part of the election campaign of those who are against it. Today, more than ever, since the elections were very close, we would have reason to be much louder, more aggressive, to use difficult words to those who have defended this Law here, as well as to colleagues who voted for this Law, but here you can see that we are not doing it. We do not work because I also experience this proposal as one of the ways to reduce the negative effect of the Law, to show that in fact by doing so after the law was passed, this was an unnecessary law. Because how different messages are sent by authorities at all levels if they are unable to activate the money collected by excises, if they are unable to put 27 of them into office and keep their promise of that roadside expansion. We listen to announcements, we watch video clips that, images of models, and we increasingly resemble a neighbouring country where Belgrade is on water, for example, building for years and where the opening of the model was such a very media-failing event. So in our case, it looks like they picked up that look, so we've had a chance in the media these last few days to watch a video of the simulation of the future section of the highway, which, however it should have been built over the past four years, to see the model of the bridge and similar activities. I think it's an unserious approach, and I don't think it can pass, as much as it appears in pre-election time. That is why I think that this Law, whatever anyone says about it should be supported and that this way we show some of Parliament's responsibility, and to all those who, in such a correct way as colleague Safer and colleague Diana, are openly revising their position with very firm arguments, I congratulate on it because it is necessary to make bold decisions, but should be told when it is wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26265	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26266	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, colleagues. It would be interesting now to look at the records perhaps, from those powerful sessions we had when we talked about the Excise Act in this House and all that followed the adoption of this Law. Here we now have one situation where we have an enormous increase in fuel prices, which is government in Bosnia and Herzegovina every time we talk about what in this Parliament, which publicly, said there will be no drastic increase in oil prices, which is certainly one of the lies that are being placed on the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Secondly, there is the impression that the money collected from citizens who, for which there is no solution to how to distribute it, is in fact not particularly interested and the goal is to conclude that the increase in excise duties was not with the reason we could listen to it here, and to increase or speed up road construction in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Nobody's saying anything about that anymore. The only truth is that it was fear of some of these international representatives that individuals fear in our country and they fulfilled that obligation and now money is being collected, citizens are paying a higher price of oil and nobody cares. No state intervention on oil prices, no highway construction, no construction, no macadamia, no highways. European officials are lowly willing, most likely commitments formed against European banks are made. And we can do so in a circle, and in parallel with that, we have, therefore, a very negative European Union position when it comes to building asylum centres in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there is no answer for that either. Has anyone gone on this matter to speak to Ambassador Wigemark? Why is that? We're the only country to get such a very ugly response from Brussels when it comes to building asylum centers. Is it because of the inability of the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is it because for important issues for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina where the European Union has no interest in having a real counterpart in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's a series of questions to be answered here. We can talk to ourselves in a circle, and we probably won't have answers to those questions. The only conclusion to come is that it was that so-called. The fear and half-dozenness of what is called an international representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, no matter what the prices will be, and ultimately you have, you don't even have to build macadams in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Nobody cares about that anymore. The citizens will keep paying, we don't have trampa to call someone to lower this price of oil, I don't really know if we have anyone. So, according to what we can see, the one in the public that no one calls anyone 28, nor does anyone get lucky when it comes to our country's leadership. They're going around in circles, fighting, and the country's in trouble. Citizens don't have money, now the state has money, but it won't, and it doesn't know how to spend it. Everyone that I will support the amendments to this, the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26267	Thank you. Senad Šepić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This topic is perhaps the best topic that shows this inconclusion, inconsistency, the lack of a clear vision of a country-leading plan that they now have at this point of the people who lead the country. Last year, when it was, three times, the approach to adopt excise duties we offered a solution on September 29th, 2017. It didn't even come to the agenda after that because in the way the Excise Act was adopted, he was actually devising our procedure. This year 15.05. after almost half a year has passed, and what we talked about last year has been confirmed that no one will make roads, that there will be no new employment, that there will be no new generation of funds, we have proposed a law that is about the same as what we have today in the emergency procedure. So today it is adopted, it is also supported by the Commission for Finance of Parliament's House of Representatives, we will have it, here, next, also, sessions here in this procedure. But what's the point? So the bottom line is that, it proved that everything that was done with the Excise Act was not the intention of the promoter or the people who run the country was what they were saying. So their interest was, as we were saying all along, to ensure themselves the ability to raise new loans, to provide funds for this election campaign and to lead the country, to borrow additionally, to pay for these election campaigns, and all politics and all the talk about excises is actually, here, and ultimately functionally reduced to that plane. That's why I support this and urgent procedure today, so I suggest that in this sense, because the only way we can quickly get out of the problems that these insecure political leaders have dragged us into, who after doing what they did, then poured their ashes on themselves, because they remember the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we from the Independent bloc immediately after being adopted in such a way by the Excise Act asked for another type of guarantee to protect people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that was to limit the margins to people who sell oil, so oil and oil distributors. And what happened after that? That's what I was saying earlier, here, we're going to have a part of the agenda in the next part of the session, again the government, so you have all the behavior of people who belong to one political page here in Parliament who vote something, and then they tell their people in the Council of Ministers -- now you're our dam, don't realize it, push it away, don't deal with it. And you have it all the time, like today was the case with the SBB colleagues, and here I don't see half of them at the club, first they vote, first they say they're against being cheated on in those places, that they're against electoral manipulation and theft, and then they're restrained about having this possibility, I said to them, one of the wider public pressures of citizens to get an electronic vote and this introduction of scanners. When they see that they can do it without them, they then vote along with those who want to challenge one such right. So, you have one completely hypocritical behaviour of the main political actors, the main political leaders, one speaking in institutions, the other doing, the third, the third move pulls when something needs to change substantially in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why it's important, and that's why we keep saying that a new policy has to happen in this country, a new concept, one new, one new approach in which we will simply have this kind of personal and political and each other 29 responsibilities to move forward. So it's good, this is the right solution, so in terms of answering what we need to do now to actually get back at the economy, so, in order to somehow try to fix what's been done in the past, when it comes to the Excise Act, to return the funds to the citizens, to the economy, because it stands anyway, blocked, because of the inability of people to make any essential arrangements and to actually put into office this money they swore and to convince us that they are truly committed to building roads, to hiring people, and so it turns out very quickly that it was one complete, one complete fraud. So, here, I support the emergency procedure and I support this way that we get out of this problem that these irresponsible people have brought us into.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26269	Thank you. The discussion, Zaim Backović, I apologize to Mr Backović, Mirsad Isaković has a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26270	I thank the chairman. Gospodne Šepić, I can't understand you mentioning the SBB in that context. Why? So the SBB was the first to propose a bill, this Electoral Law in which the boxes would be placed, and scan the ballots and everything else. I don't know in what way that's going to be a discussion. And the other thing is, it's not really the agenda point. It is not correct for you to mention the SBB in this context now. The SBB is consistent with what he claimed to be today. We have brought here today a law that will certainly not be implemented. There's neither time nor money, and when we suggested, when it was meant to... there was enough space, and time, and money. So when they were perfectly normal conditions and it was real to do it, and now you've put the SBB in a position to accuse something that isn't true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26271	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26272	I mean the last thing a colleague should have done, so take at all what I said, open this kind of discussion, just don't talk about consistency. I was talking about principles in general, so here, when we talk about this point of the agenda, it means excise, just don't you SBB talk about what kind of consistency you had when we talked about excises. First, we'll never adopt it, and then after that, the most important thing is to adopt it, and then behind that, you see what this government is doing, it collects what's called fuel, we can't accept it that way. I think the public knows that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Isaković. I mentioned this in context, it's the same thing about this earlier proposal, about petitioning and about allowing us to get an electronic vote and get a system for scanning ballots. So, you're that... You were held back first, and then when you saw that the agenda had passed with your abstention, then you asked for a vote again, and then you were against it again, and then 30 of you shot down. In fact, you stopped at Parliament one opportunity to get out of Parliament a message that we are in favour of inviting people in Bosnia and Herzegovina to support us to get an electronic vote and scan of ballots. All you'd say now is some bullshit dance, we're not kids. So, I'm telling you, and this example of yours was kind of the freshest, political party's relationship with some of the changes we need in Bosnia and Herzegovina. One thing you do, one thing at a time, one thing at a time, one thing at a time, the other at a time. And, therefore, it is to you that you now have the argument that you have as your own, take what is called, consider that your vote. You see, so ask yourself what you asked to repeat the vote. When you saw that it was without your votes, you were first restrained, when you saw that without your votes there was a majority in Parliament that would support at least one, as I would say, in some metaphorical sense... Mirsad
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26273	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26274	It doesn't matter, because I'm replicating you because you and I, I answer to you because you're replicating me.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26275	Please don't have a discussion. Sign up if you have any comments on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26276	You'd better not say anything further. You'll help yourself and us both...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26277	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26278	So, Šepiću, the one who was stolen in this House is best known, in the 2014 elections, it is SBB. It's on one side. On the other hand, when you're talking about excise duties, I didn't mean to discuss it, and here I'm going to discuss, an increase in fuel prices of 40 fening, or four times more, is not conditioned by excise duties, the one who understands the problem will clearly tell you that. The fuel price was supposed to be 1.86 KM, an 18-fing increase, 2.04 KM, it was conditioned by excise duties and responsiblely claimed then, now and insurmountably that this is not the reason for increasing linear goods, services, etc. However, further price increases are conditioned by distributors and oil collection on the world market. It has nothing to do with excises, but I'm giving you one right, that the distribution of income at a separate Central Bank party, that the entire time over 150 million stands, that it's not allocated, that's embarrassing, that you're right, but all the rest of what you're saying is politics and everything else you're saying has nothing to do with this agenda point, or the truth that you're now placing here in public.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26279	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Senad Šepić. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26280	Mr. Isaković, it has to do with everything that's been going on around these gatherings having to do with the increase in excise duties. The one who can't see that was the reason and that was actually the motive and that was the topic where people were doing what they were doing, then I really don't understand where we live and what we're doing and where we're going. So it's connected, it's all connected because that's where this possibility of manipulating people from oil distributors opened up. Take yours, if you can't find it, here, I'll find your stenogram, take your stenogram, when I suggest that you don't let people rob what's called, this people under a story, take... Mirsad
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26281	Senad [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26282	Come on, don't argue.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26283	...proposed, so I first suggested it to Mr. Isaković, and the first time I suggested it, so you were restrained, so I took the second time, and the second time it was the same about me, the second time... Mirsad
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26284	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26285	Well, you know, I mean, it's a desperate argument, but there you go. I've finished the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26286	Thank you. Discussion, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26287	You should've let this play play out for us to listen to a little, seriously, it's fun. Maybe it wouldn't be bad to do a stenogram of this and give some theater, a good dialogue. Anyway, let's get back to this serious stuff. Any changes and changes that will come to the better will be supported as far as the BPS is concerned, or me. But since you're talking about hoardings, failures, I'm going to talk about numbers. The total share of fuel in oil production is less than 1%. The last price of oil, before the excise duty increased, was 2.10 KM, today oil is 2.35 KM average price. Look how much that's increasing. The average price of sugar was 1 KM, today the average price of 1.10 for those who package it domestically as Amko, as Bingo, is up to 1.35 KM. We need to talk to the numbers, the average price of coffee was 500 grams of 5.85 KM, today is the average price of 5.75 KM, to just point out, on the market the price of coffee fell. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm talking about a drop in price on the stock market. Transport prices, taxi transport and public transport, excise taxes increased 15%, prices increased on average, 15 fencing, which is not 15%, I apologize, increased on average 35%. On what was cheapest, salt, was seas, large, small, was tuzlane, either, I see some now salt from Ukraine and from Poland by shops, it was 0,60 KM, today it's 1 KM, it's 40 fening. We must do something to protect the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's no entity interest here, there's an interest in surviving people. They say we raised the pensioners 2% and the prices went up 15%. We've cut our pension by 13%, purchasing power. There are still categories here, and I have to say it because it's very interesting, because of the young, which is funny when we talk like this. What do the prices of wheelchairs for children have to do with the increase of excise duties? On average, they've grown from 25 Chicco, so some new brand now, I've made an effort to get this from people to 50%. Real estate prices in new construction rose between 8% and 20%. The affair, brothers, is covered by the increase in excise duties, as energy prices have increased. In the overall energy analysis of what I've listed, this is just one piece, one point, not with 1%. Can anyone explain to us what this blow is and what we've produced for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? What are we doing and why are we doing it and in whose health do we do it? Whose interest is that it is now standing in some account of xy 150 million KM, prices continue to be wild, citizens are paying that expensive fuel, and the effects in what they said are real sect rues, investment swings, equal to zero. What's the catch? What's this about? Distributions, something that is everywhere in the world, including in these undeveloped countries, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Spain, Italy, allocation and re-location are everywhere in the original definition at the site of final consumption [[the speaker is warned on time]] That's how they come back, and now they're fighting as much as they belong to, yak, as if they don't know where the gas stations are, where they are, and where that consumption came from. [[the speaker is warned on time]] They all know it well.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26289	Mr. Backović, we've been through a lot. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26290	But it's important that these citizens are brought into the trash can, or over the trash can so they can survive. Thank you. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26291	Thank you. Discussion, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26292	I thank the chairman. First of all, I want all the colleagues who supported the emergency procedure here today to thank and that was expected, because it was mostly people who were against those gatherings. So today, anyone who respects that it's some kind of political absolute but has no right. We're just consistent, but five times already, right, we were all against that law. I am surprised by those who warned and claimed, then quite correctly, that the increase in excise duties will lead to a chain purchase of prices, that even the people will go out into the streets. Believe me, they were psychic back then, and today they're changing attitude, I guess the word is word, it's a new party motto. We see that the accounts of the Board of Directors for indirect taxation have raised 220 million since the beginning of the year and these funds have not been withdrawn, are not divided because they cannot agree on the allocation coefficients. So we don't need that money, why would we need that money if, because it's money not only for highways, but also for the roads of Republika Srpska. If the Public Enterprise Republika Srpska Roads has so much money that 800,000 marks stand out to buy 21 luxury cars, which I already talked about today on another topic, and that car that has that baby equipment, color computers, phones, so they have money, they don't need money. We used to say there was another model of road construction. We're glad they accepted that. Some say, "You don't know what you're talking about." So President Dodik, and we support it, beware, as a model we really support it, announced a concession with the Chinese for the construction of Banja Luka highway – Novi Grad. And that shows that we can do freeways to the citizens so they don't stick their hand in the people's pocket. The protests we had also showed what the people thought of it. Somewhere the people gave up under duress, under repression, but the fact is they feel the same way. And we can't just talk about raising oil on the world market. So please, and the prices of barrels have fallen, and I don't see our distributors ever cut those prices. In Trebinj there are 10 fenings more expensive, more expensive liters of oil than in eastern Sarajevo or Banja Luka. Why isn't anyone responding? And I also want to say that from 01.01.2017 to this day, the people have given the state 602 million to build roads and highways. Where are your tenders? Where's the money? Since these highway construction fees were introduced by May 31st, 1,200,000 have been collected on behalf of these fees. From 2006 to 31 May, on behalf of road construction fees of 2,300,000, it means a total of 3.5 billion. We are in charge of building highways in Republika Srpska 1,300,000 and in the Federation so much. And how much do we have? In Republika Srpska, 97km of highways, in the Federation a little more, all in less than 200km. Well, we could gold for that money every country trip. And the difficult economic circumstances, the hard life of the citizens is the only thing that has made us want to propose this, appreciateing that this is a moment and that some colleagues who were formerly in favour of changing their minds and seeing their mistake, so once again I thank all my colleagues, and I hope that today we will address this issue in the best interests of all the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26293	Thank you. Hanka Vajzović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26294	... the need to say briefly that the Club of the Democratic Front will be pleased to support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act of Accessives, thus, without having to spray on the ashes or, as others did at the beginning, we think by noon, each other, and tomorrow again in a circle, so we will remain consistent. And it didn't take anyone's mind back then to figure out how this is going to happen now, what we're witnessing now. There's been excises before, there's been accumulated funds before, and there's no roads. Now some funds are back together, very serious, no one's doing anything. As Saša said, we have models, so we can simulate games, so we can enjoy what is shown to us, and we have constantly praised people from the Ministry of Transport and Communications. It was again, this is the second time I mention Mrs. Bulc from the European Commission, about 600, 700 million are mentioned, all available to us, conditionally, so as she said, the sea is miserable, the sea doesn't matter, we'll see what it is, but we're boasting, here we get it, and now we've bought this from excises, nowhere roads. We have praises that we have a strategy, a transport strategy in which, believe it or not, among other things as our big problem, it says that we miss resorts along the fast roads and highways. And here we are, we would certainly have solved a lot, but we miss those highways. And we miss, here, we don't know how to spend what it is or what it is. So we imitate and we will be pleased to have this proposal adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26295	Thank you. jasmin Emrić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26296	I thank the chairman. When we had a debate on the amendment and supplementation of the Excise Act, and when the excise duties on oil and oil derivatives increased, we, who were against the increase in excise duties, pointed to this situation where we would come into it. And then we made it clear to the Council of Ministers and all those who supported the increase in excise duties that the increase in excise duties would affect the increase in oil prices and oil derivatives, and that there would then be a chain reaction to the increase in prices and for all other basic provisions of life. And it happened, it made sense that it would happen. And then we had assurances by the Council of Ministers and Proposers that it would not be so, that it would be controlled, that it would be tempered, that this situation would not be at all the way we saw it from our perspective, with arguments, with analyses, suggested it. And here today there is no proponent of this earlier law to defend what they said they would be, and they said that if nothing then improved the construction of infrastructure and investment in roads and highways, and it was hinted at as a sudden leap in terms of improving highway construction and construction. What I didn't predict at the time is that these authorities would be so incompetent that they wouldn't do anything in the sense that they advocated it. I was the only one who could not have predicted this inactivity, this inactivity and their passivity in the sense that what they had promised to unrealise and that the funds they had claimed would be invested in the infrastructure, the modernisation of roads and highways were still unscheduled, i.e. that they were trapped in the account of the Directorate for Direct Taxation. Of course, we know 35 come back and old loans and old obligations, and that's one of the reasons why there are no more significant investments that have been announced. All in all, we need to adopt this Law today to get things back to square one, so that some responsible authority that will come, I hope, do the right analysis, projections, relevant arrangements and distributions to improve the overall living environment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and, above all, to make life easier for the citizens of this country. I expect that, I hope, this situation will be far, far more favourable than it is today.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26297	Thank you. Predrag Kožul, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26298	Well, I'm not going to mention populism here, nor will I mention, even if there's enough to talk about... different changes of opinion, so on several occasions, it's a special story, and it's probably going to have to be justified in certain places, that change of opinion and motives. But it doesn't matter. When we talk about populism I'm gonna get, I'm gonna talk about the very text of the law. The law is illiterate and completely sloppy and as such inapplicable. He will be a terrible mess, possibly if he was adopted, cause, because you must know that any regulation, whether it's a law, was a lower regulation regarding excise goods, excise duties or excise duties, whether it's cigarettes, whether it's a fuel must have a very clearly defined question as to what at the time of the application of that law what with the supplies of goods. This was clearly defined in the previous law, which is hereby repealed, in Article 45a) which is hereby repealed here. So, at the moment, not all the rules regarding excise goods and excise duties are without reason, it happens relatively often in cigarettes, and somewhat rare in this type of excise goods, defined in a way that defined the date of entry into force and the date of application, in order to raise the issue of supplies, it was a very serious issue in these laws, which could... This law does not regulate the issue. The law is in an emergency procedure, amendments are not possible, so the adoption of such a law is a populism without precedent which, in the possible application of such a law, will cause so many problems and confusions and interpretations of this Law from those who should operate on it, and it is in itself as it is completely inapplicable.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26299	Thank you. Stasha, I apologize, Maja Gasa-Vražalica-Devil, for correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26300	Well, I can't help but refer to what my colleague Predrag Kožul said. So, this proposal proposed by the SDS MPs' club is illiterate and sloppy, I ask my colleague Kožul whether it was written by that law, or that set of excise laws we had in the marathon session, which he didn't even know the proposer, he didn't know who was proposing it, whether the House of Peoples, whether the Council of Ministers, so we've been asking here for 13 hours, asked to tell us who was proposing that set of laws. So, according to my colleague Kožul, if I understand correctly, the law is written and the law that has two language variants and two sub-accounts, in the third language version of the money goes to Bog knows who and where. So it's a consistent policy that follows. It is true, we can refer to this who changes their minds and how, but I would like to remind the public once again who remains consistent in how to take over the citizens' coat of arms as far as possible to protect their headquarters, their interests. And, of course, about some colleagues and colleagues, they said themselves, so a man can forgive them for voting, so here's what they've done, and now they've corrected an opinion, and about a HDZ policy that supports everything that goes over the back of citizens, I think it's all been said long ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26301	Thank you. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong assumption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26302	Well, it's not worth correcting the wrong quote, it wasn't the wrong quote. I was saying, when, here, perhaps in harsh words formulate what I think of this Law, I was talking about very practical and operational issues of a law, his... The job of the legislator and in the part of the writing of the law, and also in the part of lawmaking, is very serious. If we write a law that will create confusion, confusion, and problems in its application, then we are very irresponsible and irresponsible. And I've tried to explain to you, and I'm still telling you that this law is just like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26303	Thank you. Staša Košarac, discussion. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, I apologize, again for correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26305	My colleague Kožul is not a problem, I absolutely agree with you that the question of the law should be clear, only you know what, when you're talking about it today, then you can't ask yourself why you didn't report at that session, too, to point out the shortcomings and lack of that set of excise laws. No, you haven't, but you've been sitting here for 14 hours, none of you who vote against this bill today were allowed to go to the bathroom so that something wouldn't happen, but you haven't been silent and watching as we fought to open perhaps the eyes of you or one of you not to support that set of excise laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26306	Thank you. jasmin Emrić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26307	We are essentially not introducing anything new, but we are returning things to the beginning, we are returning things before increasing excise duties, that is, before amending and supplementing the Excise Act. So nothing new is going on, it's just going back to the way it was before the excise increase. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26308	Thank you. Staša Košarac, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26309	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'd say there's a classic public show here today, and unfortunately it's in a series of shows for the public. First, to remind all of us together that the Council of Ministers, which stands here, is the people of these structures who support the Council of Ministers, we have not supported the Council of Ministers since the first day, in dialogue with foreigners, Evropljanin, representatives of the European Commission have committed to implementing the Reform Agenda and the arrangement with the IMF. And just as you do, the government has committed itself to Brussels and said it will adopt a set of laws from the Reform Agenda. Now the question is, are you an opposition to the Council of Ministers? On the other hand, the Council of Ministers keeps talking in the superlative and good movement of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the European Union, and we have a report from the European Commission that speaks quite differently. We have a situation where what the Council of Ministers, the chairman and his deputies promise in Brussels, is problematic in Sarajevo. That's a fact, and don't let us stare. Secondly, I would like to warn everyone that making such laws is a necessary decision, i.e. the position of the Governing Board of the Direct Taxation Authority in which they participate in the entity level. Today, if we pass an emergency law, we enter directly into jurisdiction and prevent those representatives of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, who come from entities, from saying their opinion. Such a law confers jurisdiction by making it impossible for those who participate in the Directorate for indirect taxation and... The board of directors say their position. That's why it's a public show. Furthermore, why don't we talk about, yes, it is raised around 130 million, why don't we talk about such tendencies to change the ratio that is at the expense of Republika Srpska, why don't we talk about unblocking the 130 million-dollar funds that are in the account. Then the citizens would see if there were these means, they would see if there were effects, there would probably be a development of travel communication, so is the law, etc., etc. But that's not what we're talking about. Here if there is a majority, most can pass a law and absolutely it is not a problem, I don't know how this law will be implemented, we don't have a relevant opinion of the Management Board, we don't have a relevant opinion of the Ministry of Finance, we don't have an opinion of the Council of Ministers. And what are we doing? We're making a public show. I agree with the fact that there has been an enormous accumulation and there is no dilemma, it is not only these laws, in the first perhaps collection that, but we have all witnessed the fact that a global market disturbance is... and of course the relationship of certain people who are doing the traffic of oil products, their financial interest to take advantage of this opportunity and to raise prices. I just want to say, part of the discussion was taken from me by Mr. Kožul, did we, whether those who think they can have a majority, whether or not we're going to see it's not a dispute, whether we're going to ensure the implementation of this law, whether it's possible and if we just have a story in front of the citizens that we're fighting for the interests of the citizens, and that we have a law that will not be able to implement ourselves in practice. I'm not talking about what's going to happen in the House of Peoples, I don't know what's going to happen in further procedures, I don't want to open it at all, and without the participation of the relevant institutions by law, the law has provided that, for this, changes in laws, participation in law-making... there has to be a position of the Management Board of indirect taxation. If you can secure it is not disputed, but let's not skip those people the law has given them, and they bear responsibility from entity levels of government 38 not to get involved in it, because the law simply made it possible. And that's why I think this is a public play, respecting definitely that there's a market problem when it comes to the price of oil derivatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26310	Thank you. Just to let you know that there's a suggestion that tonight we're working until 7:00. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26311	It's just that today we've learned that the reduction in fuel prices for 18 fening is a transfer of jurisdiction. The second thing, in the Reform Agenda, is that none of the letters stand for the increase in excise duties. The increase in excise duties is from the Treaty with the IMF to ensure that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is returned to it by an existing loan. In the agreements on existing loans that were not in any parliament, watch out for them signed there by an XY person and in the name of the state of someone in charge and then said more – if we will increase excise duties. One person does it or three, doesn't matter. So, I'm wondering, here's the IMF now taking a look at it and it's up next tranche, so what we're doing when the next tranche won't be, why we're taking care of the IMF now, right, there's no reason. If we've put some laws at risk, and the government of Republika Srpska has done it, the IMF's tranche, what does that matter, let's make life easier for the people for these 18 fenings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26312	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26313	All positions here are clear. So, when the Law was adopted last time, it is likely that the Governing Board had an opinion and that it was agreed that excise duties would increase. Well, it's not like we expect him to be okay with the excises shrinking now. So we have a clear view of the Board of Directors of indirect taxation. We do not need this attitude for this Law, for it is clear, unequivocal and that opinion, in my opinion, is not a condition for this Law and for the application of this Law. So, I don't think that might be a problem in applying the law. What is also clear to all of us is that this Law will not be supported in the House of Peoples, so this is more than clear to all of us, but it will, but it will also show in the House of Nations what it is shown here, who it is, when it comes to this issue, in which positions. That Law, even if it was not adopted, had fulfilled its goal, it then fulfilled its goal even if it did not adopt it. Unfortunately, unfortunately, there is this likelihood that he does not adopt himself down there, as well as any other law, because he will decide some other majority and other interests, not the interests that we are talking about here today. The other thing that was mentioned here, and I think it's absolutely incorrect, which is that, these laws or excises are some kind of reform laws, which we saw in a number of reports, where Bosnia and Herzegovina is praised as someone who passed a set of reform laws, and then listed excise laws. If these are reform laws, which are expected of us Then we are on the right track, because we are obviously solving this kind of reform very easily, it showed that vote last time we adopted these excises. [[officer 39 is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26314	Thank you, Nikola Lovrinović, for correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, therefore it is clear and evident that in recent days, the lady disagrees with her president in nothing but charges against HDZ, so they are unique. So, the lady made claims as if HDZ were all-powerful in this House, where they let happiness go, so that we could pass the Electoral Law, for all that is wrong and that this Parliament and these state institutions don't do it most favourably to the HDZ. So, when we need to achieve something for the rights of those we represent, we obviously do not have these powers that are being given to us in prerogatives. But it doesn't matter either, so I think the party from which she comes is the most responsible party for this kind of so-called. parliamentary majority or political anarchy, because they were in power at the beginning, because they created it, among the first ones, perhaps most of them, and then they fled. Why did you run away, so who are you coming after now? This is not what we were for, you know, right away, but you accepted us out of need, and I have objected to you a hundred times, and I am proud that HDZ has never changed its mind during this term on some of the views it has brought here and to what extent is the only party that supported the Council of Ministers when we have already accepted such a parliamentary majority as it was here. And it is definitely clear that you really hate the political will of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26316	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26317	So, I'm sorry that you, as chairman of this House, will not absolutely mention your colleague, so this is the third time that my colleague Lovrinović mentions or makes false claims that I hate anyone. So I don't hate anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26318	I agree with you, but in the end he said and...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26319	I will, I will use all of my options at my disposal to initiate the Code of Conduct against fellow Lovrinović, because he is an absolute liar, or I ask him if he has any machine to measure who he loves, who he is, which people or anything like that. But it's a waste of time when a man thinks only of Nikolic and Lovrinović, spends a man's energy, I don't know if he's in the air conditioning, whether he's doing horns, whether he really has such an obsession, whether he's so...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26320	Ma'am, Maja don't have to do this right now...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26321	You see, you're going to interrupt me, and you're going to warn me, it's an unequal position.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26322	No, he finished and sat down, interrupted... Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26323	the position you are exercising in this House, but it is your honor, not mine. So, I agree in one with Mr. Lovrinović, this, in that we were ever able, or that we put ourselves in a position as a party, as the Democratic Front to freshen up with the HDZ of BiH because it is an incompatible variant. So, we're diametrically different and I am truly sorry, so I personally transfer myself for ever raising my hand to Mrs. Krišto sitting on this side of the hall, because then it was this party's will to get into power to support someone. And Mr. Lovrinović, the fact that you're burdened with the relationship I'm in within your party, it's pathetic and pathetic, the smartest thing would be to talk to you about what relationship you're in with your president, whether you're gay or straight.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26324	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26325	A kolega, Lovrinović, and then some other HDZ colleagues today, who knows what road they're hitting on a colleague of Gasal-Vražalica-Devils. I think it should be stopped. We can do it in two ways, one is that the chairman of you together with your colleagues influences them, and the next time, whenever it happens we're looking for breaks from two, three clubs, here we all comment that this is very inappropriate, so let's stop it. It's not a HDZ topic, and it has nothing to do with excise duties, although HDZ has to do with excise duties, but what my colleague Lovrinović is saying is that it doesn't. I don't know what a colleague of Maja Gasal-The Vražalica has done to become the biggest problem of HDZ, so this many times today she's been attacked. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26326	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26327	On behalf of the Democratic Front Club, I'm looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-1.u26328	Since this is the situation I suggest we continue, stop the session and continue it in the next term, 25. So we interrupt the session, continue the 25th, I apologize the 26th is a sequel, you know the calendar. 41 Session interrupted at 6:05 p.m.
