ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3931	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you and open the 36th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting by the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the BiH Institution Audit Office at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the Directorate for the European Integration of BiH and international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly monitor the work of our House. The session is attended by 14 delegates, of which 4 from Bosniak, 5 from Croatian and 5 from the Serbian people. For today's session, the absence was justified by delegate Fahrudin Radončić. As indicated in your call for a session in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, delegates will be allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you, along with the invitation to the 36th session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 36th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers. In accordance with Rule 156(1) of the Rules of Procedure, Martin Raguž for the Minister of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Dragan Mektić; Dragutin Rodić for the Minister of Communications and Transport of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Ismir Jusk; Zdenko Džambas for the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Denis Zvizdić and Mario Karamatić for the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Denis Zvizdić. In accordance with Rule 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure, the chairperson of the Council of Ministers and that member of the Council of Ministers to which the question relates were delivered. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV service to ensure the direct television transmission of this session in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV Service has informed us that they are unable to transmit this session directly because of the 23rd transmission. Winter Olympics. Now we can start with this part of today's work, about asking oral questions and giving answers, so I give the word to the distinguished delegate, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3932	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished one, my question is to the Minister of Security, Mr Dragan Mektić, and it concerns the current situation in the matter of the migrant crisis and the situation at the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to the entry of migrants into Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to what we see both in the public and what we hear from the most responsible people who run state agencies and directors, we see that the number of people who either want to enter or enter Bosnia and Herzegovina is growing, and according to these indicators, things are standing so that in 2016, it means a year and something, about a hundred and a few of those people have officially entered Bosnia and Herzegovina in the past year, about 400 and something, and only in the first month of this year, almost 900 people. In addition, we heard information where, say, the Director of the Border Service, Mr Galić, asks the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to cooperate and report people who have entered, uh, illegally on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so there are such cases, and I am interested, and I think that this and the public are interested – what is the current situation, what are the projections in the immediate period and what is the training of the institutions and directors and agencies of Bosnia and Herzegovina to deal with this challenge? Because it's obviously from what I said that Bosnia and Herzegovina now that they're closed, I'd say, other channels, which have been opened so far, are putting themselves in a position to perhaps be more exposed than anyone expected to be to that challenge. Well, here I think it's time that we, both in the House of Peoples and in Parliament and in the institutions, talk seriously, and I hear an answer from the Secretary-General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3933	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. The word has been given by the honourable minister, Mr Dragan Mektić. Here you go, Mr. Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3934	The Honorable Chairman of the House of Peoples, respected members of the College, respected delegates and delegates in the House of Peoples, I would like to say that, after the migrant crisis, the mass inflow that took place in 2014 and after the signing of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey came to an end, so-called. the massive and refugee crisis that took the Balkan route. We were not directly affected by this crisis, we were preparing ourselves, we had a staff formed, possibly if there was a detour of the route, but it did not go towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, as this agreement put an end to the Balkan route, there has been a major increase in illegal migration and, in practice, a new illegal route that is going through Greece, then across Albania, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia continues to move further towards Western Europe. Compared to all these countries that I have mentioned, Macedonia and Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina has one specific role, we border, we have an external border with the European Union and we have an additional obligation to protect the external border of the European Union from this, so there are some countries within this route, to say, more comfortable and irresponsiblely, we have an obligation by which we have no choice, we have to cut it off, we have to stop every migrant here, identify it and we need to comply with our laws, so above all, the Law on Asylum and the Law on Foreigners in accordance with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, etc. give him that treatment here and look for a way to get rid of it. 3 I just wanted to say that after the closure of this mass inflow between, therefore, Macedonia and between Croatia, i.e. Slovenia remained in Serbia stuck so-called. That's what we call them, somewhere stuck about 10,000 migrants, who couldn't go any further in Western Europe, couldn't go any further, further back. We, Serbia put it in some refugee centres, we even have one very close to our border, here in Shid, of several thousand, and we have had several international conferences, let's say, on the subject. One was in Vienna, where Austria specifically suggested that those tens of thousands be allowed into Western Europe and treated according to all those who had come by then. However, countries so-called The multi-city groups or groups did not accept it and they stayed in Serbia and we have an additional problem with these migrants, is of the 10,000, somewhere around 10,000, now about 3,000 in Serbia, and this has gone on illegally from Serbia in various ways...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3935	Excuse me, time. Time, we have limited time to answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3936	Fired, here I go, here's a drink. And that part, we happened to find one of those migrants ten times in Bosnia and Herzegovina and bring back. So last year, it was registered close to 800 migrants, in 2016 below 100, for the first two months, here, already 300 migrants here, meaning the increase from 600 to 700 percent is a serious problem. We are still dealing with this problem within our capacities. What's the problem? We're missing border police personnel from around 500 people and material-technical equipment in terms of thermovision, radars that reveal these migrants.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3937	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3938	And here's to finish, uh, we're proposing, at the last session of FRONTEX, I suggested to FRONTEX to introduce some kind of monitoring at the border between Montenegro and Albania, do I feel like they're going through without any control by international police officers, and we're ready to give part of our border police officers into that monitoring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3939	Thank you, too. Before I give my word to my esteemed colleague Raguž, therefore all these questions come forward to the Council of Ministers and appreciateing the position of all delegates, they do not all support all members of the Council of Ministers and, consequently, have the right to eventually, for these formal reasons, to find an objection to the course of the session if this one is extended, this time that is given to answer. I always ask you when there are such broad questions, and so far we haven't had any problems with it, but here if we may have in the course of this session, to look at your notes, so delegates and all of us just point to this written response that you've certainly given, simply to respect all the delegates, whether they agree with what you're doing or whether you answer or not. Thank you. 4 The Word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž, in terms of expression of satisfaction or opposite of the answer given.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3940	I thank Mr. President, but let me tell you, time is limited by the Rules of Procedure, but this problem is obviously not limited, it escalates, and therefore, according to the problem, sometimes a little nuance to hear a complete answer. I thank Mr. Mektić, because I am mostly satisfied with the answer and that was mostly what the question was, but there was simply no time opportunity to see, and in some ways he was interrupted, to see the capacitation of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to deal with this challenge and therefore my comment goes in that direction. So, at this point, according to Mr. Minister, there are at least 500 officers missing from the BiH Border Service. So, but Mr. Minister isn't enough to find out, where is the proposal on how to deal with it, whose jurisdiction is that, is that within the authority of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Security, of certain agencies? We've recently adopted a budget here, some of us have talked about these things, had amendments, so here's 15 days after that we see, so we're halved, and we see that the problem is getting stronger, and in this context I expect, so, and the next step, that's a proposal for a measure to deal with this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3941	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. So the next question was asked by an important colleague, Mr Dragutin Rodić. However, there is no Minister of Communications and Transport of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Ismir Jusko, but it is his deputy Mr. Dalipagić, so I would like to ask Mr. Rodić first whether, we can continue the work well. Then the word has a distinguished delegate, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3942	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues of the House of Peoples, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. A delegation from Turkey, who discussed the possible route of Sarajevo-Brčko-Bijeljina and the other Sarajevo-Rogatica-Visegrad with you and the representatives of the entity ministries, recently visited Bosnia and Herzegovina, and as far as it could be seen from the media, the delegation visited two routes of possible highways, is one Sarajevo-Sarajevo-Tuzla-Brčko-Bijeljina-Brčko-Bijeljina and the other Sarajevo-Rogatica-Visegrad, my question reads – Is this question concrete, is there two paths to be built and is there any agreement on such a solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3943	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. Mr. Dalipagić, please welcome the Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3944	Dear President, members of the College, distinguished representatives, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. The following can be answered at a joint session of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the BiH Council of Ministers in the first month of 2017, Mr Rodić's representative, agreed on the need to build a more modern road between the two cities of Belgrade and Sarajevo. At the 53rd session, I adopted the Declaration on the criteria for determining the route of the future highway between Belgrade and Sarajevo, and at the 128th session held in the first month of this year, the BiH Council of Ministers met.... The declaration. During the stay of the Turkish delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina from 05 to 10.02.2018, a meeting of the Turkish delegation with representatives of state and entity transport ministries and road and highway directors was held at the invitation of the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport on 06.02.2018, where entity representatives presented all available information related to the two routes of the Sarajevo-Begorad road that are in the option. Also in order to collect additional information from the field, the Turkish delegation visited both road routes on 07 and 0802, where entity and local community representatives presented and provided all available documentation. Another Turkish delegation was also in the same period in the Republic of Serbia on the same issue. When it comes to the route of the road through Bosnia and Herzegovina for the two routes of the Sarajevo-Belgrade road, which are, that is, Sarajevo-Visegrad-Vardište-border Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and other Sarajevo-Zenica-Tupce-Brčko-Brijeljina-Brčina-Brčina border with the Republic of Serbia, there is documentation of a certain degree of preparation that the Turkish delegation has received and will analyse in detail. The position of the new high-level road route Sarajevo-Belgrade is looking for, in addition to professional analyses and the alignment of the opinion of all stakeholders, entities in preparation for the realisation of this important project which this Ministry should certainly take into account.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3945	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3946	Taking into account all of the above, after Turkish delegations living in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia jointly analyse all available data, the situation will be more specifically clear and more details will be known about this project, which will be further implemented in accordance with both states' competences when it comes to the construction of transport infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3947	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3948	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3949	The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić. Happy or not. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3950	Thank you for answering this question, of course the question may be clear and there may be a lot to know and there may be a lot of facts, but I think this is very important for the public to know that these conversations have been going and in which direction this is going and so I ask that this answer be delivered to me in oral form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3951	Of course, Mr. Rodić, it's your right. I now have the obligation to give the delegate Zdenka Džambas, however, her question concerns the BiH Council of Ministers, so, accordingly, you will ask him regardless of his presence, please go ahead, Mrs. Džambas. Dear delegate, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3952	I welcome my fellow envoys. Now I have a question here about welcoming the representatives of the Council of Ministers, I have two, two things, I am, this is the House of Peoples, so I am looking at everything, so I will welcome these representatives of the Hrvat to the Council of Ministers or for them there was no place on the plane, so they are all here either, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers is safe when he leaves them to keep the country safe, now I'm not exactly ______________________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] To correct, yes, but I'm talking about the three ministers who are here, let's just say I made a little joke, I'm not quite. I asked the Council of Ministers, or the Chairman of the Council, because I cannot ask a direct question to Mr Milinić, because he is the director of the agency and he could not even answer me orally, so he will have to send it to me in writing. Rezlog, you see these great papers, because his letter, which all of you emissaries have received in the materials, is written that it is very urgent, where man requires us to make our conclusion, which we made last time, to undo it and that there were some false allegations. That's why I, of course as an envoy, have the right to enter that agency, in this case means the Agency for Foreign Investments and to come to data that, of course, supports everything I said last time and that's why we've reached a conclusion, and that, the conclusion is so benign, means that it's being taken care of by balancing the national composition in any agency, and between that and this. But what's interesting is that he did not disprove, for example, that out of three assistants 0 is Hrvat, that out of the six chiefs of service 0 is Hrvat, and then these cooks will count on me as employees. His attitude towards the deputy minister, the director, whom I would ask, is none because there is no cooperation and it is set up. So my question is that he actually writes to us the employees and the others he hires under the contract of action, so I'm talking about the Agency, not the names set, 7 so we'll see what we're going to come up with, that it's all nice and tabular, because I have it all tabular, but I'm going to wait for his how he's going to deliver it to us. Then I saw, and I have a faxil of a letter from the previous deputy minister, which warns him of illegality, when he asks the Agency for the State Service to be granted the admission of workers to the already appointed people, means double, and since I have it, then I came to the conclusion that his main problem in those two years is a certain Goran Stanojević, only he needs to find a place. He's always that man by the contracts of action, it's some man, I've got nothing against a man, the man's from Zvornik, he can work in Mostar, he can do anywhere. I therefore ask that everything since he came to us from the beginning of 2016 be delivered to us as requested, which are the approvals, etc. You've seen the question of how I write, but I want to review all other work contracts and contracts concluded in the Agency since the beginning of 2016, so you'll see what's not there. So, no further, there's already one, one tender for an assistant missing there, but he canceled it from that money he got from the ministry, or from the Council of Ministers, that he could call a competition in two of those jobs that were vacant, he filled it with a driver who, who he doesn't have a right to, with a reference he doesn't have a right to,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3954	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3955	And it shall be paid, and then another, so when I receive it, I will give you the right information, but until it cometh to me from it; for I have all these things. And the second question I'm going to ask the Gender and Human Rights Agnciji, because it's absolutely mutilated there. According to that, when I get this in writing, I'll look for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3956	Thank you. The time available for the chairman of the Council of Ministers and your response was used, so let's say we had some tolerance. I am now giving the word to my esteemed colleague, Mr. Mario Karamatić, who also asked Mr. Zvizdić. Do you want to ask the question regardless of what is not present? Yes, you do. Thank you. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3957	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, to be honest with you, it sounded amazing to me that your remark on the answer of the distinguished Minister to the question of my fellow Raguž, that someone from the Council of Ministers is giving an excessive answer, because otherwise, when I ask a question to someone from the Council of Ministers, it disappears across the border. So the alien calling is so strong that I just can't stay here so they can at least try to answer me. My question to the honourable chairman of the Council of Ministers was about not answering parliamentary questions, I will only mention two aspects where he multiplied this entire House 8 by zero, including members of the College and all of my distinguished colleagues. So, about half a year ago, I asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers and asked for an answer in writing, so I didn't even ask him to try to give me an oral answer – which are due to the staff by which the Council of Ministers, meaning state level, paid for additional education and coffees were benefits from the fact that these people received master's degrees, doctorates, etc.? So, after more than half a year, I didn't get the answer, maybe chairing the poor thought that I was thinking of him, he was paid by Canton Sarajevo, so not the state level. So, I'm referring exclusively to the state level. Furthermore, in 2015, it was there a long time ago, it was almost three years ago, I asked the distinguished Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina – why does the VTK not provide financial reports or why they were not on the Council of Ministers if they were delivered? Then I got an answer from the Honorable Minister Šarović, that he didn't know if they were, that maybe they were, that maybe they weren't, that he was sure they were, but that he didn't know if they were, that's what the answer sounded like. I asked this question several times later, no one ever answered me, and then at the Committee on Foreign, Trade and Economic Relations, Transport and Communications of Bosnia and Herzegovina we adopted the conclusion that we are asking the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers to provide us with an answer – did the Foreign Chamber of Commerce deliver these financial reports, and if so, means I am not insinuating anything, which is why they were not at any meeting of the Council of Ministers? The answer was that the Secretary of the Council of Ministers retired. I ask that question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers at last session, and I announce that the issue will be, he will be wiped out of the country. I announce to him again that I'm going to ask him at this session, he's getting out of the country. Meanwhile, we are having an affair with the export of apples, a ban on exporting actually fruit, where they believe or not the outside Chamber of Commerce, which I have been trying to obtain information about as an envoy from the Croatian people for three years in this distinguished House, that this Foreign Chamber of Commerce has issued a certificate of origin for these apples imported from Poland. And now who can convince me that this isn't working?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3958	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3959	No president, so I can use his two minutes and plus his minute to answer his...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3960	Mr. Karamatić, if I wanted to provoke you, I'd say time.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3961	No problem at all, I understand and Serbian believe or not, Bosnian and all the languages used in this area, so here's why some often go to foreign embassies understand even English, German a little bit weaker, but come on, that's another story. And now what I can get from all of this, is what I've taxed you. So, the only thing I can conclude is that at the state summit in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is one corrupt octopus on the 9th floor with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the foreign minister, the MVTO, with you all here, because you don't insist on it. I would like to point out that the Commission has confirmed the House
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3962	Mr. Karamatić
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3963	... The Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3964	I owe
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3965	I understand, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3966	No, let me tell you, no, no, it doesn't apply on time, so I'm obliged to warn you of something so you don't warn me. So when you use that kind of accusation that someone from here or elsewhere participates in corruption, so it can't be so easily declared. So, you know the way we communicate in the House of People and so far we've really made sure that these things don't retreat here. So, I don't know if there's any connection between Mr. Raguž or any of us having to do with it, who's sitting next to you first, and he's going to react first, which is natural, or Mr. Podžić or Kadić or me, etc. So, let's end this in one spirit where we started doing a session.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3967	Here we are ending, so without giving you difficult qualifications, you three members of the College I ask you to do everything you can to make sure that the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Secretary of the Council of Ministers honors the conclusions of the House of Peoples you chair, Mr Tadić, along with your two very honorable deputies, and to provide me with an answer to my representative's question or are you like them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3968	Thank you. Given that we have exhausted our work on this part of today's plan, we are now moving to announce the agenda for this session. For the 36th session, I propose the following amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 35th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2015/17, of 09.08.2017, shortened procedure; 10 3. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law (second reading), Proposer: BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, Law No: 02-02-1-1830/17, since 20.12.2017; 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2568/17, of 30.10.2017; 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-2209/17, from 02.02.2018; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Air Force of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-2397/17, from 02.02.2018; 7. Proposal for a Strategic Rural Development Plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina (2018 - 2021), Framework Document, Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministry material, issue: 01,02-28-108-2/18, since 16/01/2018; 8. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The well-timeliness of public procurement procedures in BiH institutions", applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 02.02/3- 16-1-2870/17, since 12.12.2017; 9. Annual training and training plan for members and units of Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces abroad for 2018, BiH Ministry of Defence material, issue: 03/1-03-2799/17, since 01.12.2017; 10. Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH, Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 03/6-34-1 255/18, since 24/01/2018; 11. Proposal for a decision to appoint a parliamentary military commissioner for BiH, issue: 01.02-34-1-418/18, since 07.02.2018; 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of the State Programme of Activities for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 between the European Union, represented by the European Commission and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Directorate for European Integration of the Council of Ministers of BiH, No. 01.02-05-2-2852/17, of 08.12.2017; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Notice of the Agreement on the donation of security clearance equipment between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the People's Republic of China, No. 01,02-05-2-212/18, of 18.01.2018; 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, No 01,02-05-2-327/18, of 29/01/2018; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the application of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the readmission of persons staying without authorisation, No: 01.02-05-2-328/18, of 29.01.2018; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol on Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in search of missing persons, No: 01,02-05-2-329/18, since 29/01/2018; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty establishing a Transport Community between the European Union and the South-Eastern European signatories: the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo, No. 01.02-05-2-331/18, of 29.01.2018; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement for Interreg V-B Adriatic-Ionian Transnational Co-operation Programme CCI 2014TC16M4T002 between the European Union, represented by the European Commission, Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Council of 11 Ministers of BiH, and Italy, represented by the Regione Emilia-Romagna-Romagna, the managing body for Interreg V-B Adriatic-Ionian Transnational Co-operation Programme (ADRION), number: 01,02-05-2-332/18 since 29.01.2018; 19. Providing consent to the ratification of the Grant No Agreement. TF0A4795 (Project of Health Risk Factors) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-333/18 since 29/01/2018; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement amending and supplementing the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on international road transport of passengers and cargo, signed on 16 October 2004, 01,02-05-2-335/18 of 30.01.2018; 21. Giving consent to ratification of the grant agreement between the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe, signed in Sarajevo on 30 August 2017, No: 01,02-05-2-336/18, since 30.01.2018; 22. Giving consent to ratification of the grant treaty between the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe, signed on 25 August 2017, issue: 01,02-05-2-337/18, since 30.01.2018; 23. Consideration of ‘confidential’ material, Act No: P-OV-07-03-10-9-100/17 of 24.10.2017. (Note: material for this item of the agenda is available for confidentiality only by a security officer of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and cannot be delivered. The material can be seen in office number 215 (II floor), each working day from 9 to 17 hours. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples. Does anyone appear for a word with a proposal for a possible modification and addition of this agenda? There are no reports. I find that, given that there are no applicants, we believe that the agenda has been adopted and that it is not voted in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 35th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 12 were in favour, no one was against, 1 was abstentioned. From the Federation – 7 for, against no one, abstention 1. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, there is no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that there is a general and entity majority, and that we have adopted the minutes of the 35th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. 12 Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2015/17, of 09.08.2017, shortened procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3971	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3972	It's like the report. Thank you. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if he wishes. It's like the law. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm sorry, dear delegate Mrs. Zdenka Džambas came forward. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3973	We at the Finance Committee, I apologize, had the Commission's opinion, or the Ministry of Finance, because we asked for an additional explanation of Article 55 because, by adopting such an amendment, this amendment could open the field of many others in progress, and we know that the team member on progress in the service, in his position. But, uh, I don't mind forgetting 12, there were 12 out of 16 of those from Interpol, to be covered by the Law that, by this new law that would have been given to them... they would have given a supplement like other police officers, say it was peas in some period before they were forgotten, if they hadn't been placed. But in principle, I personally didn't go to the Committee yesterday, and I can't vote for anything today, because it opens the field, I say, to everyone else, how we got an analysis of the article 55 and we suggested we were, let's see the amendment of the law by a hasty procedure where they could be inserted, I mean Interpol, into this, to get the amendment of the law, but most within the Committee wasn't for it, so now here's the story, I'm explaining why I'm going to be abstentioned, pure principle. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3974	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. There are no further applications for participation in the discussion, so I'm closing the debate. We are now moving to a statement on the draft law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present, 11 were for, against no one, held one delegate, that pardon, held two delegates. From the Federation – 6 for, against no one, abstention 2. From Republika Srpska – 5 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Law amending the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in a second reading in a different text compared to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Since the Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted in such a way, we must now approach the appointment of a person who will make up our part of the Joint Commission for the Consensus of the text of the Law, so I call for you to make a statement on the proposal of the delegates that will make the Commission on our behalf. Are we going clubbing or whatever you want? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's Softić. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3986	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3987	It's like the report. Thank you. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. It's like the law. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has a distinguished delegate, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3988	On our Finance Committee, of course, there was this topic, and here I would know, so everyone who works at the Board of Appeals has so far had a coefficient of 17 4,96 and we call ourselves a member of the Office for Discussing Appeals - a public procurement expert. What we're going to talk about is that they're getting paid, now they're avoiding the term, rather than saying that it's harmonized with something, it's climbing to 6.5, and now it's the same member of the Board of Appeals - an expert in administrative law and everything else. So, when they were employed, there was a tender, right by this member of the board, etc. A member of the office, what's the pay, you know how to call a competition, all that says, and then that race goes to get a job, and then this story starts to get bigger. What came from the Ministry of Finance is that it won't, this change won't require additional funds from the budget, because obviously during the previous period the funds for this are raised, because it's impossible to, that there are no problems, but they say that in the context of their budget that they have they will be able to raise their salary from 4.66 to 6.5 by actually, like that now, it's all kobajagi, deletes this A7, so it doesn't exist, so in the future they won't even call the competition according to this coefficient 4.96. Since I would be against it anyway, and I would always be against it, but if the Ministry of Finance, my distinguished minister says that there are no problems and that there is a positive opinion and that there are resources within the finances, in their, their budgets, then in this case, I will accept it for that reason, and otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3989	Thank you. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3990	Dear Chairman, here's the thing I need to say a few words, and the truth is it doesn't leave anything unsaid. We had this Law on the agenda about six, seven months ago and it didn't pass in the House of Peoples, but then we had a completely different situation, because it was a negative opinion and the Ministry of Finance. But here it's important to say something else, this is about harmonisation of regulations, it's about two laws, one law is the Law on Public Procurement, which in Article 95 regulated the entire area and defined how certain coefficients are determined, that is, for the same job as the same salary. The Law on Salaries and Receipts has now come up with such a proposal and a solution to this issue. For this reason, I think that we have been working on the Commission for a long and long time on this subject which has been the subject of the debate, and therefore we know that the Commission's single position on finance and budget has also been to look for a single law that will address these issues comprehensively and integratedly, and therefore the Commission has also proposed this conclusion that an impact review should be carried out just so that we do not face these issues. Otherwise, I think the Serbian People's Club has a unique position when it comes to this ad hoc resolution of certain issues, but I think where there's this need to harmonise the rules, which are already resolved within the budget, I don't think there's a problem when it comes to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3991	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. There are no further applications for participation in the debate, and I am closing the debate accordingly. 18 We now move to a statement and vote on the bill's proposal to amend the Law on Salary and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 12 were in favour, no one was against, 1 was abstentioned. From the Federation – 7 for, against no one, abstention 1. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, no one against, no one abstained. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the draft law amending the Law on Salary and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. We now move to a vote on the conclusion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples, on the proposal for a conclusion. Thank you. Of those present
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3992	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3993	Please repeat the voting process for Mr Rodić's remarks. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 12 were in favour, no one was against, 1 was abstentioned. From the Federation – 7 for, against no one, abstention 1. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, against no one, abstained no one. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, so I realize that the Commission's proposal for finance and budget has been adopted. We're going to work at six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Air Force of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-2397/17, from 02.02.2018 This is the first reading of the bill and in accordance with Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received opinions from the legislative sector, the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples and the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The legislative sector has found that the draft law does not comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, which is in line with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions. The constitutional committee of the House of Peoples found that the draft law complies with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications supported the principles of the bill. I give the word to the applicant, sorry, Mr Sead Kadić, first Deputy Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications in the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3995	No microphone 19 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3996	It's like the report. Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer of the Law, I say it remains as in the law. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no applicants for participation in the debate. I'm closing the hearing accordingly, so let's move on to a plea. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Air Force Act in the first reading. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, 12 were in favour, no one was against and no abstentions were there either. From the Federation of BiH – 7 for, against no one, abstentioned no one. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, against no one, abstained no one. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Air Force Act was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Strategic Rural Development Plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina (2018 - 2021), Framework Document, Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministry material, No: 01,02-28-108-2/18, since 16/01/2018 You have received the opinion of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications to the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Commission has adopted the proposal for a strategic plan for rural development of BiH. At the 56th session, held on 31.01.2018, the House of Representatives adopted the Strategic Plan. I now give the word to Mr Sead Kadić, the first Deputy Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, chairman of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3998	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u3999	It's like the report. Thank you. I'll give the word to the bearer if he wants to. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] As in the law, as in the law, you are............................................................... 20 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u4002	.... a significant step when it comes to this area, I would like to say briefly that, that the work on this Strategic Plan began in 2013, after not full five years here it is being finalised, but what is coming to us is that, not by of course, by adopting this Strategic Plan, I hope that all the tasks ahead of us through the adoption of the Strategic Rural Development Plan, that their, their realisation will be facilitated and I believe that the Parliamentary Assembly will also play a role in this, specifically this House. Once again, here I express my hope that you will support the Strategic Rural Development Plan and I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u4003	Thank you too, Mr. Franjičević, for the appropriate words. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? The word was requested by a respected delegate, Mr Nebojša Radmanović. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u4004	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, Mr. Chairman. Taking into account this, according to the Ministry's representative, a significant step forward, I would like to propose two conclusions that would, I'm sure, improve the work to realise this strategy in the future and put into an active relationship with this House. I suggest that the Service share the conclusions that I have drawn, as I read them, with all delegates: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's home requires the foreign trade and economic relations ministry of Bosnia and Herzegovina to report annually to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the implementation of the Strategic Rural Development Plan. 2. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH requires the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Directorate for European Integration to ensure that the process of programming the European Union's funds in both rural development and the implementation of all other strategic documents at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina is implemented in the framework of a coordinated mechanism for co-ordination of the European integration process in Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with the Decision on the system of coordination of the European integration process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since it is said that clear conclusions are only a brief explanation. The first conclusion actually puts this House into an active role and I think that it should be such and similar conclusion is, I think, brought to me by the House of Representatives. The second conclusion reminds us of what we have also done for a very long time, which I personally estimate is a major step in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is a system of coordination. The system of coordination and its consistent application will allow all of Bosnia and Herzegovina to decide more calmly and stablely on everything without major conflicts if we apply it. But he's not here by accident, because there are already indications that he's trying to bypass the coordination system right here, so this proposal is like this. In addition, I think 21 is important for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for both entities, for all cantons and counties. In addition to saying that this conclusion is indirectly related to point 12. So – Giving consent to the ratification of the State Programme Funding Agreement, which, if you remember, we delayed at last session for this session. If we adopt such a conclusion, we will no longer ask for a single vote, nor a special vote for this Agreement, but we are also for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u4005	I thank Mr. Radmanović. There are no further applications for participation in the discussion, and I am closing the debate accordingly, so let's move on to a plea. We vote on the Proposal for a Strategic Rural Development Plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina (2018 - 2021). Run the plea. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, 12 were in favour, none was against, none was abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 7 for, against no one, abstentioned no one. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, against no one, abstained no one. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the proposal for a strategic plan for rural development of Bosnia and Herzegovina (2018 - 2021) has been adopted. We are now voting on a proposal for conclusions from the distinguished delegate, Mr Nebojša Radmanović. Please initiate the vote. Thank you. Out of the 12 delegates present, there were 10 delegates, 1 delegate was against, 1 delegate was retained. From the Federation of BiH – 5 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, no one against, no one abstained. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that the proposal for a conclusion on the proposal for a strategic plan for rural development of Bosnia and Herzegovina 2018 – 2021, a framework plan, was adopted on Mr Radmanovic's proposal. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The well-timeliness of public procurement procedures in BiH institutions", applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 02.02/3-16-1-2870/17, since 12.12.2017 You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Commission has adopted the recommendation report contained in it. At the 56th session, held on 31.01.2018, the House of Representatives adopted the Report. I give the word to Mrs Ljilja Zovko, chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of People, if she wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u4007	No microphone 22
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u4008	It's like the report. Thank you. I give my word to the Reporter, if he's present. It's like the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has a distinguished delegate, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u4009	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I miss my esteemed colleague Halid Genjac, but let's have a chance to meet. As for the report on the audit carried out by the Audit Office, I have really no objections, however, since the topic – the timelyness of public procurement procedures in BiH institutions – comes to mind what I have been told long ago, that everything in this country is public only that public procurement is secret and now who carefully reads this Report on the revision of public procurement after that sleeps as a small child, if he loves this country, means he wakes up every half hour and cries, about it comes down to it. I also find it interesting to recommend the Office for Auditing, so I will read it once again to highlight it, so the Office for Auditing Recommends to the Parliament of BiH, we are here dear colleagues and colleagues, to consider the possibility of increasing the responsibility of the management of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in cases etc. etc. And that's exactly what I'm trying to tell you, is that we're considering increasing the responsibility of the institution's management, regardless of what it was about alienated power centers, such as the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, which is unworthy to respond to the House of Peoples' conclusions, whether it was AMUS, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, individual directorates, agencies, which absolutely do not want to cooperate, and that's their right to do so – and what happens? We sit here and let it pass us like nothing's gonna happen. My kolegica Džambas had just spoken about certain agencies and directors what they were doing – how can we influence it? Absolutely not like this, we're going from hollow to empty, we're kind of surprised, we're going to work out what's going to happen, of course nothing's going to happen, and that's how it's going to be with these public procurements. And here I call upon us to honour the recommendation of the Office of Audition, to demand greater responsibility of management members, that regardless of these management members who are doing in this case public procurement or any other business, they should be able to take some sanctions. Because whatever message we're sending, so the director of the agency either, it was about public procurement, it was about weapons and equipment, it was about what the respected Minister Mektić was saying, getting a thermocamera, so he's doing whatever he wants, and we take it or we don't take it for them, and he's doing it further, he's got no responsibility. And in the case of criminal offences, which we have often seen in the reports of the Audit Office, it means that it is against the law, against this, against that, the judiciary and the prosecution is silent. Well, our prosecution is acting like a sports fishing society, catching, kissing, taking pictures and letting go, so that's pretty much how it looks, so it's probably gonna be with these new affairs. So I'm just inviting you, here, to try to follow the recommendation of the Audit Office this time and ask for the responsibility of management for these failed public procurements. If planned in time, if they have the funds, there is no need to disappear either in the Armed Forces or here in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u4010	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. The word has a distinguished delegate, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u4011	Dear Chairman, Mr Karamatić has opened one topic on a report on impact review, and this House has considered in this conference and perhaps in the past about 42 impact reviews on the most important topics in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and every time, sometimes silently, sometimes without discussion, and sometimes with discussion we have adopted these reports and adopted recommendations and remained that last instance of what is happening in general with what we have adopted and what strength we have given. The Commission for Finance and Budget throughout its operation in this term of office 2014 – 2018 asked for various solutions to this issue, and among other things we know that a very important link in all of this is the realisation of these recommendations by the executive authority and the institution. We tried to organise meetings, to raise it to a higher level, because I tend to say if all institutions applied this from reviewing recommendations and harmonize their situation and what it says, then we would take a major step in organising a common system of government institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I just think this is just one, one impact review when it comes to public procurement that just touched that part that might be the most important part, which is part of public procurement planning. I also told the Finance and Budget Commission that there are absolutely subjective and objective problems in this regard. You, when you go into the budget planning process, those ten steps that need to be done at the same time, are both planning and public procurement plans for next year, which will be fully consistent with the budget and with what it plans, what the budget plans. We see, and that's amazing, that we have continuous public procurements, that are constantly being conducted, and we come into a situation when one contract is concluded, that contract expires, we have no resolved question of sequels, and I'm going to say here's the purchase of office materials or something that has to be done every year and applied. That's why my proposal is that we, here we had and today we adopted, I mean, very important, uh, a proposal to review the impact of salary analysis and compensation in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it's also very important that we at one of these sessions deal with all those conclusions about all the impact audits and give them more power to realize what you've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u4012	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. The word has a distinguished delegate, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u4013	I absolutely agree with my colleagues, but this report, therefore, says that the review has been taken into consideration, so the timing of the procedure of nine institutions, which is, say, the Ministry of Defence with thousands of employees and another agency that has 25-30 people, so it's not exactly the same, in the same way you can't work, is it? We have Deputy Pilice here with us, and we know very well in our Finance Committee, because they have a certain role and apparently the director accepts them as equal so they can here... normally present us, unlike what I just told you, who doesn't see his deputy. Well, I'm always thrilled with their reports, so here's the story of nine institutions, so 24 public procurement plans in BiH institutions aren't in the function of timely implementation, 60% of the public procurement procedures from the sample aren't started in time, 90% of the procedures are not completed within deadlines, so we're talking like this to some numbers. Therefore, the review has shown that BiH institutions do not always take adequate activities to implement the public procurement process in a timely manner. The delay in the procurement process then reflects the possibility for institutions to achieve the objectives for which they are established, leads to an unwarranted extension of the contract, which is the biggest problem, means with existing suppliers, which raises doubts among citizens, and in some cases to the loss of the equipment, as well as the necessary goods, services and others. It is evident that there is no control mechanism, but let's say all of this within the legal period prescribed by this audit was answered only by the Border Police, within the time limit only by the Border Police, and they are all obliged to report to this audit that it can make this one report. So that I wouldn't read all this data now, you wrote that, here's what my colleague said, which is a recommendation to us here in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. However, this is important to me that they propose a new Public Procurement Act, because in 2014 the Law was passed and until then the 57th article was amended, raised to 125. One, he said, of the major newspapers is the introduction of the obligations of contractual, contractually agreed... of the authorities to publish procurement plans on their own websites and, at the latest, within 60 days of the day of adoption of the budget, i.e. the financial plan, and then we are told here finely that this Law is no longer right, because new directives of the European Union have arrived, and they suggest that the Public Procurement Agency, under emergency approaches, draw up a new proposal of the Public Procurement Act under the new directives that have come from the European Union. So that many things would be resolved here, so it's quite different in the European Union according to the old ones, we ask that, as they would, I would support this, so this new law to be made and that they are doing it urgently because, the law would have provided for the Agency's obligations to launch an initiative to amend and supplement this law by an urgent procedure regarding changes in the value of classes with the previous consent of the Agency's Committee in cases of significant changes such as the change of EU law in public procurement. If everyone in this country, we were just talking in our club, if everything worked like these really 74, mostly, institutions at BiH level, and that's just because every year they're being controlled, if it was like that in the Federation, I don't know what it's like in Republika Srpska, there's two thousand entities that should be examined, they don't get into the rooms for 10, 15 years, so they can ride in and rule whatever they want. We must again be satisfied at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we never have some of the measures proposed, because it is a dozen institutions that have such a reserve, opinions with a reserve, and in public procurement are otherwise considered at the top of crime, at the top of corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as justified as it is, unwarrantedly, here is what I would not be able to say, according to the findings of the audit house it is not quite so. But because of what's going on, it seems to me, at these lower levels, all of them are thieves, all of them are criminals, which, of course, I would never support. I accept this, this report of yours, and it's as good as everything else you're doing.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u4014	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. There are no further applications for participation in the discussion, so I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a plea. 25 We vote on the report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The well-being of public procurement procedures in BiH institutions" with recommendations contained in it. Start the vote. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 delegates were in favour. From Federation of BiH 8, from Republika Srpska 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The well-timed public procurement procedures in BiH institutions" with recommendations contained in the Report adopted. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's Ad. Nine. Annual training and training plan of members and units of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces abroad for 2018, BiH Ministry of Defence material, issue: 03/1-03-2799/17, since 01.12.2017 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, the Commission took note of the Annual Training Plan and the exercise of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces Units abroad for 2018. At the 56th session, held on 31.01.2018, the House of Representatives took note of the Annual Training and Training Plan of members and units of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces abroad for 2018. I give the word to Mr. Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session, if it pleases.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u4016	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-0.u4017	It's like the report. Thank you. I'll give the word to the bearer if he's present. I've seen Honorable Minister Marina Pendeš, she's certainly here at Representative's. So, _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We won't be able to come back for this next one. For the specificity of today's reasons relating to the fact that two sessions are held in parallel, the House of Nations, which is.... the coordination of the timing itself during the session, I would nevertheless invite you to make a statement and to continue to work on this agenda point, given that it very... responded at the very beginning and participated until all, the last moment in the work of this session. 26 So we begin a statement about whether or not we will continue to work. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 12 were for, against 1 delegate, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 7 for, 1 against, no one abstained. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, no one against, no one abstained. There's a general and entity majority, so I'm saying we keep working on this agenda point. I'm opening a debate accordingly. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing, so let's move on to a plea. We vote on the Annual Training and Exercise Plan of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces Units abroad for 2018. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 were for, no one was against, there were no abstentions either. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, no, there are no abstentions. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, no objection, no abstentions. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Annual Training and Exercise Plan of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces Units abroad for 2018 has been adopted into knowledge. We're going to point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH, Proposer: Joint Committee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 03/6-34-1-255/18, since 24/01/2018
