ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26020	Please take your seats, continue the work of the 62nd session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, continue the 62nd session of the House of Representatives, which began on 30 May and was suspended on 20 June 2018. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak delivered a notice that BiH's absence will not allow him to attend the session, from the cabinet of the chairman's Council of Ministers Denis Zvizdić's office, that the chairman will not be able to attend the 63rd session of the House due to a meeting with the prime ministers of Bulgaria and Macedonia, from the cabinet of the Minister of Civil Affairs, has been informed that Minister Adil Osmanović and Deputy Minister Goran Ćosić will not attend the session, from the cabinet of the Human Rights and Refugee Ministers, has arrived to announce that Minister Semiha Borovac will be prevented from attending the session, and that her deputy Predrag Jović will attend. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26021	Denis Bećirović... en route, so they say...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26022	Okay. The minister has arrived, so this was incorrect information. Nice to meet you. The session's leave was justified by Deputy Chairman Borjana Krišto and MP Monika Tomić, and the delay was announced by MP Miroslav Milovanović. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26023	Denis Bećirović justified the absence.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26024	Denis Bećirović also announced a legitimate absence. According to the Office, 37 MPs attend the session. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. We have a report of Damir Arnaut in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26025	I thank the chairman. So, you have read that we do not have a civil office, nor a deputy, at the moment the agenda point of which is proposed by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and Article 74(3) says – in the event of the absence of the motion for an act, it is not discussed unless the House decides 2 differently. I would also like to underline that this is the second time that Adil Osmanović has avoided the responsibility to appear around this item of the agenda, and he did the same when it was debated on the Constitutional Commission when he sent the head of the department even though the Rules of Procedure order the presence of the least assistant minister. This is not an ordinary point, this is a point that speaks about why Bosnia and Herzegovina is the only country that has not been admitted to Adil and is saying enough to Osmanović attention to the quality of education in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26026	You're suggesting we don't discuss this point? So, I remind you, the session was interrupted on the table of debate on the 17th agenda. So we're going to continue with the 17th point, and I'm going to put this...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26027	You don't have to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26028	You don't have to put it to a vote. So point 17, Ad. 17. Report on the reasons for not taking the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Ensure of BiH's quality in full membership of the European Organisation for High Education Security (ENQA), with a concrete proposal for measures to eliminate observed weaknesses – applicant: Council of Ministers (realization of the Salko Sokolović parliamentary initiative, adopted at the 55th session of the House of Representatives held on 21.12.2017, 17.01.2018), act No: 01-50-1-2527-1/17 of 30.03.2018. [[/consultations in the College.]] Well, after the consultation, we agreed in the College that because of the lack of a proposing, or the minister to whom this applies, we would take the agenda off the table. Moving to point 18.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26030	Salko's picking up.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26031	Mr. Sokolović. Here, you're right.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26032	I apologize, but I have reported the replica by counting that you will put it on the discussion that Mr... So, I'm warning my fellow Members and colleagues again that this is serious 3 matter, this is what Mr. Arnaut was talking about, but please, this is a game that's been going on for four months. I suggested this somewhere in February or December last year. What I want to point out here and ask my fellow Members and fellow Members to think about it means Article 48. Framework law of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26033	Mr Sokolović, let me just suggest something, so this is the situation according to the Rules of Procedure that there is no debate at this point, but there may be a proposal to maintain the point. If you suggest that this point be held despite this, we will put your proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26034	I suggest she hang on, but I just want to say the reason why I'm saying it. We have a promoter here, we have, the chairman, I apologize, we have a measuring person that we can talk to, because Article 48. The framework law says the Agency in international relations is an Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Assessment. So here's Mr. Halilović, he wrote this report, and if he sits here and he wrote the report then we have someone to discuss with, and the Ministry only gets into this topic in one small segment. Otherwise, you know...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26035	Are you suggesting we hold a debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26036	I suggest we hold the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26037	I'm putting on a motion vote to hold the debate at this point. For 22, against six, abstentions seven. There's a general and entity majority. I'm opening a debate at this point. Mirsad Đonlagić, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26038	First of all, I want to say hello. ...an apology, I answered for the discussion first, but when you suggested that it be taken down, I'm withdrawing the discussion, now I'm just going to say two or three sentences. In its four-year work, this Parliament has shown a lot of weakness and has a lot of stains on our work. The biggest stain on our work is the attitude to higher education, regardless of whether.../a briefly interrupted video/... you are very good at how the relationship was with the proposed minimum changes that would create assumptions for changing the law, the Framework Law on Higher Education. The second dark spot of the state's attitude towards education is the existence and functioning of this Agency in the way it was drawn up in these acts. This country expects people who know, who are educated, who, who are expected to take responsibility for this country's future, are not ready to do so because the entire system of education has been devastated. And that heavy stain we'll all wear on our consciences. And I call you once again, if nothing else, at least in the next term and whoever is in a position to talk seriously about this issue. This is the 4 most important issue, even more important than any other issue we have raised as important issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the moment, on the political scene of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26039	Thank you. Hanka Vajzović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26040	Thank you, Chairman. I warmly welcome all present. The gratitude of fellow Sokolović for having troubled the work and results of this agency, and for waiting there are many other similar institutions. Here, I've come to the hearing, although after reading the answer, you can't have a man who, as it turns out, doesn't run out of text without a word. On the one hand, I am surprised by the fact that it is the Agency which is called – for the development of higher education, and that it is hard to actually figure out when this is being read, what is in this respect, and at all the Agency when we know that it is established, what is in this respect, what is the fact that this agency's contribution, almost 10 years ago, contributes to the development of higher education, i.e. that in this kabasto name it also stands, so the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is indeed confusing and perverse, which is someone as skillful, skillful as many other agencies, has given the name of this institution and turns out to be guaranteeing the quality of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it turns out that, here, they are not able to fulfil their basic task, not even formally guaranteeing the quality of higher education certified by obtaining accreditation, even formally. The problem is, they say in response, on the board of directors. If that's true, then it's probably not up to the Agency anymore, but to us here, the rest of us sitting here in these benches and without exaggeration, the whole mandate, I'll remind you, we're picking some members of the same board, and as far as I know, and we haven't filled it out again, another one is missing. We are, I say, masters on the European path and on the path of public administration reform. So, I'll remind you that for the purposes of choosing members of the Management Board almost from the very beginning of the mandate, I mean somewhere in May, June, 2015, if it's easier for you to remember, from the famous case of the Poplašen, we have paid commissions, ad hoc commissions that permanently exist even though they are temporary, one comes out of that Board, the other enters. And, to be clear, this time I don't criticise the Agency, it's even worse, perhaps more problematic, let's say, the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education, which is based in Banja Luka, Sarajevo and Mostar, in three places, which has contributed to, and worse in education, because I've been using a lot of myself twice because I've been doing this twice, which initiative, which is a matter of reform, famous and agenda of ours, and public administration reform, the question of reviewing the vindication of the existence of many of our institutions, state agencies and which I asked in 2016 somewhere in October 2017, and then I think in May 2017, I'm not even responsible, from the Council of Ministers is not even responsible for that. And I'm not saying, here, for the first time, I'm just going to remind you of that question, so just so we know what kind of agencies are, what their name is, how much they spend, it's terrifying. These are agencies, directors, institutes, institutions, centres, councils, committees, units, and then commissions, councils, committees, boards, administrative, supervisory, like this, such, forums, what we don't have and what they're called. The Centre for, we don't know what they're doing or what they're for, the Ce ntar for informing and recognising documents in the area of higher education, the Institute of Standardisation as standardisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for lending, for concessions, the Central Harmonization Unit, the Office for Harmonisation and Coordination of Payment System in Agriculture, Food and 5 Rural Development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., a whole series, not to mention these committees, commissions and others. After all, I said, and it's up to us, last time we were talking at the meeting about the Corruption Agency, how she was, how she was engaged. I don't even know what we need, uh, coordination, prevention, [[the speaker is warned on time]] It's like you're teaching someone how to prevent cancer, and he's teaching chemo and stuff. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, what I'm saying is that here is a much bigger problem than this fact, this is just an illustration, and this is just a reason to really, and they promised in the election campaign a lot of how it's going to be audited, but whether we need it or not. Maybe somewhere in rationalized education, it could have been all together here as many as we have, I don't know what it's all for. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Anyway, it's too scary. There is a way to ensure quality and this, and it doesn't even get credentials. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26041	Thank you. Salko Sokolović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26042	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone here again. So, I'll brief, the information we've received has confirmed my allegations, but the essence of that information is that she hasn't suggested, so, in the Information, we don't have a proposal to overcome the problems in which, which are also in the Information established. It is, therefore, a poor situation in the Agency and the Management Board, and how to overcome such a situation this Information has not given MPs an insight into it. For this reason, I insisted that we talk about this topic today, and I want to say to those who are afraid that I want something bad or negative to say about the work of the Agency itself, she's talking about her own work. Here is a fundamental problem, which is the responsibility of the parliament of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Management Board. The other thing is that the Agency, and Mr Halilović, as director of the Agency, did not point to Parliament, or to the Ministry for such a poor condition, but pointed to the relevant factor, and this relevant factor is the Management Board of the ENQA, i.e. the European Quality Assessment Agency, which clearly wrote what is going on in higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it is not in line with European standards or with the principles of the Bologna process. If that's not enough for us, then I don't know what we need further to panic when it comes to high education, and we're always talking about protecting our children, taking care of our children, etc. This is the basic thing in which we must engage in to solve this problem, so last time I said that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I presented facts, but not my facts, I only pointed out what the ENQA Management Board said, and they said – there is no independent accreditation process in Bosnia and Herzegovina because political factors directly interfered in the accreditation process and that is the fact. If accreditation or licence is given by the entity ministry and cantonal ministries, then it is normal for independence to be completed in that part. We can talk about whether, and the agency says, the European Agency that it is finally our Agency, it should include this process, etc. Secondly, the Agency has precisely said that the representatives of the Academic Community have allowed conflict of interest to be installed within the Board of Directors, some members besides members of the Management Board have executive functions at individual universities. A concrete example is that the Rector of the University of Mostar and the International Co-operation Procursor are members of the U.S. Board, should prepare himself for accreditation, etc. If it's not a conflict of six interests, then I don't know what it is, and otherwise we won't talk about a conflict of interest in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that is why it would be good or fair to stop the accreditation process at this point until the Management Board is formed by law, and the law says that the Management Board is a heterogeneous struct, not a homogeneous structure. At this point, we at the Management Board have representatives of only public colleges, and the law says that the need for membership is both from private universities, and from the sphere of students, and from the sphere of employers and from the sphere of international factor. So, when we have such a board of directors, then we can start in the story of the school accreditation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there's a political impact that's significant, so whoever's on the board of directors if he has a friend that has some college he'll get credentials, if he doesn't have money, I have this example, and I'm going to prove it, etc. So we have a huge problem when it comes to the work of the Governing Board, which is a political character and which is a corrupt character. The Management Board of our Agency has done nothing to initiate changes to the accreditation system itself and in particular to propose solutions related to the existence of two development agencies, one in Republika Srpska, one at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is also not proposed to amend which should be done in order to pass the full process of admission to full ENQA membership even though it is two years old, 2016. So time goes by, the Governing Board sits still, does nothing, receives compensation and does this politically corrupt part. And that we in Parliament don't worry here, and we here execute the choice of this Management Board And please, I just want to say here in the end, you've got these suggestions of my conclusion, that one thing relating to the Rector's Conference, we, therefore, is the obligation of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Civil Affairs by law, in accordance with Article 43, should at this point react, we have a Conference of the Public and Public University, and there is no in that composition [[the speaker is warned on time]] Rectorial conferences by representatives of private universities and universities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Therefore, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Affairs to warn the Rectorial Conference that, in accordance with the Law on Higher Education and Article 43, it is responding in that direction. And that's all we need right now. At the obligation of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and to finish it in the next period. [[the speaker is warned on time]] We currently have, responsibly, so-called. A rectoral conference because it is also possible and is not presented in heterogeneous composition, i.e. there are no private universities and then these political...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26043	Mr. Sokolović, I'd like to ask you... SALKO
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26044	...I apologize, and they have my suggestions to conclude that the Board of Directors is being replaced and that our colleagues will support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26045	Thank you. Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26046	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will begin with a sentence that has long been used and used when you want to prepare a society for destruction – if you want to destroy a society, destroy its education. An uneducated 7 people are easily manipulated and they are self-destructing the community they live in. We have such a situ now in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since there is also a rector, former vice president of Tuzlan University, and the current one responsible for what we're talking about, I hope that he will understand and make efforts and steps to move towards something called a real and quality school. At this point, we have more universities than undeveloped Germany, France that is collapsing, Italy which is disaster, Španija, I speak to the average, to the number of inhabitants. We have, we say, about three and a half million inhabitants, and the European standard is one university of three and a half million people. The number of universities we have is bordering on disaster, especially because of the total number of personnel working at those universities. When you go in and try to catalogue what is being taught and educated by our children anywhere, you will find relevant people who are lecturers on the fingers of one hand. It's simple to check out, you know, these doctoral dissertations, so come in, so, the French National Library, you'll wonder if anyone who's doctored since 1996 has to this day been catalogued. Before that, dozens are in Germany, France, Austria, I'm talking about undeveloped countries, the United Kingdom, Španija, the name and last name of people with recognized works. We don't have it today, you know it well. A special story is disrespecting the laws we have, we have them but they are not respected. Tell me where the entity laws know both public and private, it's the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Higher Education, and it's not the law on state or private law, it's the Law on Higher Education. Because of this disease of the law, or our disease, we have a situation, I will give the closest example to me, the Sarajevo University where I studied and graduated in 1979, long ago either. The number of students in basic sciences, these are technical sciences, is 14 times smaller today than it was before the war. It's engineering, electrical engineering, construction, architecture, geodesy, so I don't pick them up, watch 14 times. The number of staff in those colleges has not been reduced, has not been reduced, the number of students has been 14 times. Math one, mathematics two, statistics, dynamics, fluid mechanics, kinematics, structures, are the same subject in all these colleges, and we don't want to form a political college, but we have to have six deans instead of having one without talking about professions. Right now we have 11 young men who ended up in Erlangen. It is the world's largest political school, the most recognized in the world, so academic Hanjalić is a professor there, one Suad Jakirlić is a professor there, they are finished and they are electric engineers, such a diploma cannot be nostified in Bosnia and Herzegovina [[the speaker is warned on time]] This is very important. Give me two sentences, please. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Such a diploma cannot be nostified in Bosnia and Herzegovina because we do not know the profession. Why, who are we? They can build towers, these electric engineers, who are about a mile high around the world, and in their country they can't give that knowledge, because no one recognizes it. It's a disaster, we don't have anywhere to uncertain the professions we don't know. We know politics well, I don't know, diplomacy, But we don't know real life. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Make an effort to change the laws and stop this anarchy in education.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26047	Mr. Backović, I really need to break up.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26048	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26049	Correction of the wrong quote, Hanko Vajzović. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26050	In fact, it's not a correction to the wrong quote, here's all I want to do about what my colleague Sokolović was saying. I agree to, here, and the Agency said it's up to the board of directors. If that's how we don't have anything to criticise the Agency, it's not the only thing we have a lot of them, a reform, to say that we have something, what powers she's got, that's all she's got, that the law provides, and the problem arises when we see that it's not as little as her task, which is in her job description, and it's not a bit satisfying either. So, I'm talking about the conclusions offered by my colleague Sokolović, I support them, but if it were to come down, if these conclusions were based on the selection of new members of the Management Board, it would mean everything from the beginning of the new mandate, the commission, and the competitions, so choose one by one, and we wouldn't get anything. I think the point is to depolitize agencies like this, and it's certainly an empty story that we're going to do it. It's up to us again, we'd be re-elected here, and we don't have anyone to pink for members of the board of directors who are obstructing the work of this agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26051	Thank you. The director of the agency said he wanted to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26052	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of speaking to you. I thank you for your interest in this issue, i.e. in the state of higher education and in the BiH Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency. Here I will only taxe in the form of the thesis and the settings and say, in my opinion, the most important things, which is that the Agency for Higher Education and Quality Insurance BiH has been so far and remained an associate member of ENQA. As an associated membership, there are 14 other state agencies in Europe. Extern... The ENQA's commission consisted of a comparison of the work and regulations under which the Agency operates with European standards. The 14 criteria of the so-called so-called criteria have been evaluated. the second and first groups of European standards. Of these 14 criteria, the Commission assessed four fully met, the aesthetics were significantly met and four partially met. The Commission has assessed the Agency's positive work, the Management Board has read two, two reports, two agencies from Bosnia and Herzegovina, an external evolution report from the BiH Agency and, in short, I am speaking, and a report on the accreditation of the Republika Srpska Agency. And that's where the basis for thinking about what to do. I would not now enter the Report which was written about the Republika Srpska Agency, it is none of my business, but I will note that however, the Management Board has decided to amend one of the evaluations given by the Commission and to question the Agency's membership in full membership of the Agency. This therefore means that the Agency remains as an associated member, as well as 14 other countries, i.e. European countries, or agencies of those countries, that essentially the Agency has done 27, not basically but exactly 27 accreditations of higher education institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that all these accreditations, which have been made, have been accepted by the ENQA. And the condition for the validity of the accreditation done by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Agency is not a membership in ENQA. Incomplete membership in the ENQA does not entail any legal consequences either by the Agency's work or by work and importance, validity, quality of higher education and diplomats that students, or diplomats, receive in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 27 is an accredited university. The board of directors has changed one criterion, it's so-called The measure of efficiency, it consists of two things. First, as regards the lack of independence of the Agency in implementing the accreditation process, as provided for in the Framework Law on Higher Education and the ENQA proposed to amend the Law, i.e. certain items in the Framework Law on Higher Education. Accordingly, she proposed, made recommendations and 9 for amendments to the Statutes that also point to the need for more independent work and work of the Higher Education Development Agency. The Agency has made an action plan for the implementation of the ENQA recommendations, the akcion Plan has adopted, adopted by the Management Board and under this Action Plan is working today, i.e. it should be done. The agency received 19 recommendations, all of which point to strengthening the Agency, none of the recommendations raise questions to the Agency, but to strengthen the Agency's status at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina as regards the efficiency of its work in relation to higher education institutions. The Agency, i.e. the Executive Board, or the Agency's Accreditation Commission, gave 11 commendations for the work of the BiH Higher Education Agency, for its efforts in 11 of the 14 standards. So, as far as the Agency's activities itself are concerned, there is really no objection to the Agency's work, the remarks relate to the work policy framework, i.e. the policy-law framework for the Agency's work, and this political-legal framework for the Agency's work is primarily the Law on Higher Education of BiH and the Statute of the Agency. I have very regularly informed everyone, in my opinion and in my court, competent educational institutions, not competent but invited by my nature of the work, I have informed them about the state and the work of the Higher Education Development Agency, above all the European Office in Bosnia and Herzegovina with several letters relating to all the states. Then OHR with multiple memos and several visits and talks at the highest level with the European Office's ambassador to Bosnia and Herzegovina, then with employees, etc. A number of memos have been sent to the BiH Council of Civil Affairs Ministry. The BiH Council of Ministers has already held two meetings with its Higher Education Development Agency, it is recommended, twice, and one of the last meetings at the Council of Ministers was held yesterday to discuss the Agency's High Education and Quality Insurance Agency at the request of the Agency, the Council of Ministers recommends that a basic act be adopted by the Agency, which is decisions on higher education standards in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to meet 12 recommendations through the adoption of those decisions of 19. Other recommendations refer to the amendment of the Statute and refer to the amendment of the Law. We, in the Action Plan, have foreseen changes to both the Statutes and the Framework Law, and we hope that this work will move on. The appointment is, as far as concern is concerned, stopping the accreditation process I think it would be the worst, worst thing, that this could yet cause, a very bad thing if not the worst thing, maybe it's too free to say the worst thing, but stopping the accreditation process would be something that could really question internationality and applicability, i.e. recognition of diplomas in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why I don't think that's the way to solve it. What the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers has already specifically concluded yesterday is that it suggests, in a certain way, suggesting to the Parliamentary Assembly that the College of Parliamentary Assembly discuss with the Management Board, the existing Management Board, to point out to them the importance of adopting, above all, this decision on norms as an act of accreditation. The same fact, i.e. the need to adopt such an act, was also pointed out by a special commission, the second European Commission and Bosnia and Herzegovina for the field of education, for communications, social policy, health care, etc., pointed out the need for preservation and indicated that it had reached a conclusion towards the Government of Republika Srpska, or the authorities of Republika Srpska that the Framework Law on Higher Education, i.e. ensuring the quality of higher education, was maintained in this form within the meaning of the competence of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education. At this point what you could see from this report is also the problem in the work of the Management Board in terms of The conclusion reached by the Government of Republika Srpska that a delegation of Serbian nationality, which is part of the Governing Board, does not act as I speak, so the decision on norms and now the Management Board is in one situation that it cannot make, vote. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The decision-making is done, it's done on a pr-incip consensus in terms of... of the majority representation of each nation in making a decision and 10 just now is the situation. At this point, even the recommendations adopted by the ENQA cannot be implemented unless there is a political dog war with the competent authorities in Republika Srpska, or in the Parliamentary Assembly, or within the Management Board of the Higher Education Development Agency. So there are quite a number of countries, as I mentioned, that do not have ENQA membership. ENQA is one thing, ENQA is not an agency of European, European in terms of...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26053	All right, I need to ask you to finish up. Enver
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26054	But it's one link to the agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26055	Thank you. Since there aren't any of my colleagues, I'll give myself a word. So, first of all, to intervene on this situation that the Council of Ministers is asking the College to talk to the board members, that's the thing that's just not allowed. The Governing Board is people who should be independent, apolitical and the College, and even the Parliamentary Assembly has no duty at all to do what it does and should not work as a legislative body. It is true that the Parliamentary Assembly chooses board members, but afterwards they are people who should make decisions on their own in accordance with their beliefs. In my opinion, the situation in higher education after the situation in the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina is something that is most serious and which is the greatest burden of this society and which is why we will generationally have great consequences in the future. But I can't help but look at that, I don't know exactly what all your powers are, and I believe there's nothing you can do about it, but not to look back at the catastrophic situation and still around, that people say, buying diplomas, means diplomas that are being bought publicly, which everyone knows people don't go to test but they get these diplomas. The other day, I was at a meeting where people are coming in, it's a woman, it's coming up for discussion, it's me, and it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me. So, the situation is catastrophic, but I don't think it's a problem, that you can solve it, and I don't think this Parliament can solve it, because responsibility for a higher school system is at entity level, and I don't know to what extent at canton level and it's released on purpose, it's very difficult to correct it, so it should be political will. You already have so many people who own those diplomas, so the citizens here who own those diplomas that maybe it's impossible to do that now. Politics will not interfere because it would have consequences in terms of the loss of vote of these people who in many cases are also officials of the state. These people who unknowingly finish school are employed on budgets and, in municipalities through political ties, probably not that the privates will pay 11 to someone they know in advance that they don't have that knowledge and that's why taboo topic, because politics is deeply involved in this situation that's true. And to draw attention to you that this is not about the board's problem, as far as I've heard it, this is about what's in whose jurisdiction, what's in the jurisdiction of the entity, what's in the state and what's in your agency and that those who are representatives of the Governing Board in Republika Srpska claim that you're trying to transfer through these acts some powers that don't belong to state levels under the Constitution to the state level and that this may be part of the problem. I'm not getting into it because I haven't met enough, but I draw attention to you that you can't expect it to pass, I'm sure those who are from Republika Srpska will continue to defend that attitude. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26056	Dear Professor, you know that the number of students enrolled every year is on the rise, and the number of high school students enrolled in the crash is only two examples. Herzegovina-Neretva canton 2014 – 2018 by 30% the number of high school students enrolled, Tuzlan Canton from where you, by 26%, Sarajevo Canton by 26, the Federation average by almost 30% and the number of graduates on the rise. When you take 110,000 high school students are enrolled, share with those 27 accredited universities that you said, see what that means. Buying a diploma doesn't exist, it's a monster of this society. In Sarajevo, it is said – who does not pass through Travnik and has not received one degree lying about being in Travnik. We should go to Sokolac for coffee and come with a degree. And if I didn't count it now, it's not just in Travnik that you're not laughing, it's about the Knight, the Bus, the Kisseljak, I've got it all systematiced, but we haven't been able to talk about it here. We need to know that this monster is terrible, that it is something that is terrifying, and it is even responsible for this Parliament, because in the last term, one of the high-ranking directors had no diploma. The deal between the then foreign minister and the president of Republika Srpska's current was to draw up the Council of Ministers. This man went to Banja Luka and added a degree the next day and set up as director of the airport, the next day. I've known him my whole life, and I know he's never finished, but the diploma's been invested. So you need to know that it's too scary And do something, be brave at the cost of saying it yourself – I don't want to do this. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Because an honest man will not participate in the destruction of young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we are in this. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26057	Thank you. Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26058	Just a brief chairman. Uh, this is what you were talking about buying a diploma, so now you just need to see which private colleges are accredited and licensed and compare where these diplomas come from, and you'll see, but it's the work of these institutions that we're talking about here today, because of political and corrupt action. I, by the way, put the point of the problem here on the board of directors, its composition, its way of working, but here when the Director of the Agency spoke he should have said that the ENQA’s observation that the Agency has unclear rules about the choice of experts, poor working with them and through this is through certain criteria related to one or another, whether to the state, or to the private university. So, there's some unsettled remarks that the 12 agencies need to make. But the essential thing, if necessary in the Agency's work, needs the Governing Board and the work of the Management Board, then the Agency must point out before it recognises ENQA, the public or anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that these coordinations do not exist and that these and those problems are present. However, I claim to be responsible that their work has been tied up. The amendment of the Code of Higher Education is an imperative thing, and here is the proposal of ENQA. And then when these things are settled properly, then it won't be a problem if there's one, two, three or five agencies in this country, it's the law, the board of directors and what those agencies are going to do later, and that someone is controlling, etc. So, things are sometimes the other way around. That's why it's important to get into the situation of amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, and that would be the Ministry's obligation, and not just the Ministry, but the previous Ministry of Long Years at all. They are not considering the subject, they are not interested in the composition of the Management Board, whether there is discrimination, whether it has a political, corrupt method. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It just stands there and then we're going to be buying a diploma, and it's going to happen to us anyway that what is a product in the end will not be recognised beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that's the essential thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26059	Thank you. Mensura Beganović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26060	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. I don't actually have any concrete replication of either of these debates before me, but I want to say that it is a replica of the whole of Parliament, to all political parties that are in power first of all. I was a member of the board who elected members of the Management Board of the Higher Educational Quality Agency, where I was appalled, since I was a new, new member of Parliament, a new member of that commission, astounded that policy was involved in the selection of members of the new Management Board, and today we are talking about the need for depolitisation. So let's get going. Does every member of the Management Board have to be someone his party pushed into that position? We also had a situation where by 10, 12 candidates applied to one of two places, where they were far better those candidates we did not consider good, some members did not, I did, because I never had a directive from the top of my party, than the party's chiefs, unlike others who had to give an assessment to that candidate whom the party had determined. So I replicate to all the political parties that are in this House that, if we talk about depolitisation, they go from themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26061	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the discussion at the 17th point. Moving to 18, Ad. 18. Information on the current position, assessment of the readiness and ability of the Central Election Commission of BiH (CIKBiH) to organise and conduct fair elections in October 2018 – Proposers: MEPs Senad Šepić, Hanka Vajzović, Jas min Emrić and Zaim Backović (number: 01-50-1-997/18, since 20.04.2018) 13 We adopted the supplemental proposal at last session of the House in the second round of voting. The colleague of the House decided to place this item in the agenda of today's session. You've got the materials. I'm opening a debate. Saša Magazinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26063	It's not an injury. I don't know how else to answer it. I don't think it would be a bad idea to combine these two points of the agenda, I think it'll be the same or similar debate, if at all, because we've come to this point to discuss this when the elections are called, the lists submitted, etc. Well, maybe there's a rational approach to unite this. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26064	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26065	I don't know if the proposings of this current point have, they have a suggestion whether to unite or discuss separately. So the next item was proposed by Damir Arnaut and Saša Magazinović. Mr. Šepić, are you like a pronoun of this point, do you have an opinion?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26066	I'm saying that, say, to me, we don't mind having this discussion together, I'd just like to see what the material is, say, for this next point. If we have any suggestions for conclusions, since we will refer to the material already in this, which has been delivered to the MPs, only in that sense when we vote perhaps we will have some conclusions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26067	Same material without a suggestion of conclusions, right? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26068	Here, let the delivery, let the delivery just, if people have material for that session that we know what we're uniting, so we can have the debate united, and the one about the conclusions and some suggestions we'll vote against what we have prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26069	Okay. We are voting on a proposal to bring together the debate on the 18th and 19th points. For 22, against none, abstention 3. There's a general and entity majority. We're uniting the hearing by 18th and 19th points. I just have to read point 19, Ad. 19. Discussion on the work, activities and procedures of the CEC of BiH in the light of the upcoming general elections and the need to be organised in the fee r and fair atmosphere – Proposers: MPs Damir Arnaut and Saša Magazinović (number:01 -50-1-999/18, since 20.04.2018) We adopted the supplemental proposal at last session of the House in the second round of voting. The House College decided to put this item on the agenda. I'm opening a hearing at 18th and 19th. Senad Šepić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26071	Thank you, Chairman. So, today is July 5th, we sent this proposal on April 18th when it ended up having its own, efficiency and its full meaning, before the official election call, so there were current topics. In public we had a discussion that demanded our position and our position, our position here, we had a lot of mistrust in the public because of the different views held by the members of the Central Election Commission. So, the atmosphere was being prepared, and one bad atmosphere was in public that preceded the election in early May of this year. The way and the debate, i.e. the basic reason why we wanted to have this kind of debate, were, therefore, several important issues. The first is the political issue related to the Decision on the determination of the number of delegates in the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH, as the decision came about, what is behind it, what is the role of the Central Election Commission, etc., etc. The second one's about missing or someone's saying it's leaking ballots. The third is to challenge the acceptance of an electronic vote. So, the role of the Central Election Commission in one, I would say, is the process in which they opposed what they had previously advocated had a single brake when it comes to the fastest and urgent possible electronic vote in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will briefly remind you, in December of last year, the Independent bloc proposed a law opening the possibility of an electronic vote in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we had a debate here in Parliament, went through everything that should have been passed around the first reading. We received support in parliament here in Bosnia and Herzegovina to get the law. After that, one conclusion was adopted which most, which apparently did not correspond to the adoption of the Law, was the conclusion that the position and opinion of the Central Election Commission was requested, and instead of having one extremely proactive role to get those answers as soon as possible, we had twice been through the Constitutional Commission, twice used the possibility of an additional argument from the Central Election Commission which was obviously on the side of those political forces that did not want to happen, or to get one of these laws, was challenged. And here I want to remind you here today that seven months after that we still don't have in the second reading of that law. So, still, seven months after this, after the procedure and after what we had here in Parliament, seven months after that we still don't have in the 15 second reading of that law. So, that and you who are leading this Parliament bear responsibility, in fact, for what happens to a law which, I would say, is a bad way of bringing it out of the process and pushing it aside and making it impossible for a fundamental change to happen afterwards. Therefore, there is an apparent lack of confidence in the election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and without a change in such a relationship and greater transparency, things will not change. That's why, here, no matter what the election is called, it's important that we have this debate today, it's important that we see today how sincerely anyone wants things to change in this sense. We will also suggest that the House of Representatives, so that we here urgently ask that the House of Peoples, you know how it was disabled there to adopt the final law that was here in an emergency procedure concerning the introduction of scanners into polling stations, to ask the House of Peoples to urgently end this procedure and adopt the law that should allow the scanners to be introduced to polling stations. So, I'm sure the citizens will. The political forces that challenged this, therefore, are political forces that ultimately wanted to say that the way they rest and they survive here is the kind of manipulation, theft, pranks, hiding behind some of the citizens' interests. With this in mind, therefore, we have prepared, the Independent bloc has prepared a petition that we are going to launch today and we call on all other political entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, NGOs, civil society, to also join in this sense one such action in which we will show and prove to people both in Banja Luka, and in Doboj, and in Širokok, and Livn, so that people want an electronic vote, the introduction of scanners and greater transparency and greater confidence in the election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, no matter how weird it looks to someone, what they call it, it's weird. You can use some of these procedural options here to challenge the right to make some changes, you'll see that what you're trying to advocate, to protect the people you represent, that it's not like that on the ground. So today, we across Bosnia and Herzegovina, in all the cities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, will launch a petition that will invite people to declare whether... that in Bosnia and Herzegovina we will finally get an electronic vote, greater transparency, the introduction of scanners in these polling stations, and I expect that all other political parties, all other individuals, civil society, who really see it as a chance. So, I'm not at all naive, that I'm not aware that now for these elections the way the people who run this country are, here's how they lead it, yet they put us in a position that we're probably not going to be able to have it in these elections, but there's a possibility that this broader kind of pressure through the public And to actually get that chance that the institutions that exist for these people in this country hear that voice of the people from the field, and so I'm going to invite you to support this conclusion, which I mentioned earlier. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And another thing to join this petition that we will have all over the cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26072	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26073	I thank the chairman. The 19th point was proposed on 18.04, so two and a half months ago, and here we were waiting to talk today. I don't know how much it makes sense at all, except that we may have some personal frustration as parliamentarians to throw through a discussion about this point, but that after the elections, 16 can change something more important – no. At a time when this was proposed members of the Central Election Commission were very present in the media for two reasons. One was the decision to grant the mandate, which leaked to the public from the Central Election Commission, which concerns the House of Peoples of the Federal Parliament, which was very, very, very unconsciously tried to explain as a misunderstanding, as there is no such document, and later said yes, but it is a working variant, etc., and the other was an affair in connection with the missing paper for the printing of ballots, which also the public was not convinced that it did not happen although the Central Election Commission claimed that the problem did not exist. On the other hand, the House of Representatives adopted amendments to the Election Law proposed by the Informal Coalition for Fair and Fair Elections which... _________(?) There's no quorum. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26074	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26075	Come on, you want to finish the discussion so let's see...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26076	I can, I don't have much yet, so we can...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26077	Here you go. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26078	In the House of the Peoples. The people's home stalled the process of adopting the Law, and some of the members of the Central Election Commission were advocates, or opponents of the adoption of the Law. They found various reasons encouraged by political parties who supported them to be on the Central Election Commission. After they managed to stop it, at least when it comes to these elections, they recently organised a promotion where they presented a technical solution to the use of scanners to improve the safety of the electoral process. I think they should have done it when the law was there to help the law be passed, not wait for it to be over and there's no chance that this technical promotion could be introduced in this election cycle and then presented to the public as someone who cares about it. Perhaps this is a good opportunity to announce to the public who got the job of printing ballots, which are printed, where they are, and it would be good if the members of the Election Commission were there, such as when the end of the mandate came and lobbyed us in order to extend their mandate, that answers would be followed in any way by the process of the voter's ballots, could there be any irregularities in this process and whether they would include representatives of political parties in order to regain confidence in this institution that I think is lost. As for the activities, as Mr. Šepić mentioned, some... and something, of course, that every political party has the right to do anything in pre-election and election time, but it is clear to all of us that the excise coalition minus part of the SDA has actually stopped this process and made it impossible for us to avoid more rigorous control of voters' identity in these elections, that we have video surveillance and that 17 of us have a scan of ballots, which does not lead to a promise of trust in the electoral process and in the results of the elections, but in any case there are 10 - 12 political parties that have agreed to each other that, regardless of each other's differences, they will co-operate in the electoral process. Observers of these parties will co-operate to protect the elections and to enable us to ultimately call them fair and fair, i.e. to understand the elections by voters rather than counters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26079	Thank you. The debate, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26080	I thank the chairman. Dear colleague Magazinović has raised some interesting questions here. There are electoral thefts, no doubt about it. Unfortunately, we have institutions like we have, so they don't react, so no one is criminally responsible for what happens, and very often it has come together looking at what's happening. I'm very sorry that there are no members of the Central Election Commission here today to ask them if, by official duty, they think they should react when at some polling station in a city, in a municipality, imagine those who need to go to local assemblies, in parliaments, get by, you won't believe your colleagues, you've all got a lot of votes here, and that's about 40 to 50% of the votes of your list, right, these get 96%. At polling stations, they get 100% of the votes of the parties, and from all political parties, watch out. You have a case of local elections in Zvornik, 87 polling stations, 32,068 valid ballots. Of these 87 polling stations at 75 polling stations, they number 1 from all and one political party, beware there is the Brotherhood and Unity, and SNSD, and SDS, and DNS, and SDA, and SDP, and SBB, all in turn get by, do you know how many, 100% votes of the list. The next one got 99.3%, and that's how the ones that need to get through are lined up by the deal. And the CEC never thought to react. Here, you have a case in Zvornik, watch out for the number 1 that passed to Parliament, in front of the SNSD as the strongest party, had 96.99% of the vote, the DNS 95.34% of the vote, the SDS 86.3%, these seem the least, the SDA 83.42, the Socialist Party 79.14%. For example, those who passed through, here in the entire region, in Šekovići, the number 1 had 48% of the list's votes, in Vlasenica 43% of the list, in Srebrenica 44, in Bratunc, 36%, in Bijeljina 38.73%. I wonder if the CEC has ever thought to see what's going on there, on official duty to react. That's absolutely impossible. You've had, it's not just Zvornik, you've got more of those, I know about Republika Srpska, a lot of, somewhere just polling stations, somewhere all the municipalities where local settlements are made in the municipalities -- you, so to you, so to you, so to you, so to you, so to you. melan regrets that there is no respected colleague of Prodanović here, and we all know that, for example, last election in Zvornik on Fridays came a man from Trebinj who no one has ever heard of, brought a bag of money to be an MP here. And beware, a man gets 8,000 votes in Zvornik, and I guarantee you that no one in Zvornik knows who he is and that certainly his party's voters didn't vote because they don't know him, they don't know him, they don't know an anonymous man. I think that these are the things that need to be explored, for which someone needs to, beware of all political parties, because first they do not respect the will of the voters, the second thing the cancer eats up all the political parties... That's the problem, not one or the one and those, not individually, the problem of all political parties. The other thing that opened Magazinović here is that, I still have a lot to talk about... it's a matter of printing ballots. See wonders that the same people are constantly printing ballots and that absolutely no one is controlling them, that they are being printed, that paper is constantly obtaining the same 18 printing works close to the ruling party in Republika Srpska. This time they are printed in Republika Srpska's Official Messenger, plus the Laktaša presses. We think it's our obligation to even try to control it, because what if we get 40,000 ballots that are... here's like in Zvornik... We therefore propose that we ask the CEC to give all certified political entities an observer for the very process of printing ballots, their distributives, and that our observers wait until those motherboards are destroyed. Look, I can print it, we had a case in Prijedor where a hundred ballots were found next to the school. Where did they come from, and there's no shortages in the polling station, where did they come from? That's one thing we're looking for. Another thing we're looking for, just to reduce this electoral thieving, is to create an action team that the D.A., CEC, SIPA and the Intelligence Agency will deal with these matters. And the third thing that we're looking for - additional control of the CEC, that all here, the parlamentary political parties are proposing their members to an ad hoc commission which, here in the proposal is explained, will have the task of overseeing Here I am finishing, just for a little while, and the procurement, and the distribution and the meetings of the CEC to follow and to see where this is being stolen and how to react, along with that number of votes. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you. I'd like to ask the service to copy...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26081	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26082	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed guests. This point in itself is current and now, but the effects of these conclusions and these discussions are much smaller because of the delay, i.e. because we didn't discuss this in time, before the practically election process started, and as we all know, it was already on its way. I'm sorry there was no one from the CEC, I guess it was enough for them to adopt that report on work for 2017 without discussion, and they felt that we had nothing to say about them or about their work. I'm not really going to talk about manipulations, or I don't know what we're talking about, I'm not going to talk about the law that we're talking about, because I supported it, which didn't go through, but I'm going to read something, for me, amazingly, as someone who's a little bit of a go at work, in this business, a commission recommendation that was doing a list of papers at the Central Election Commission's warehouse. You can't believe this, he says – the storage situation committee proposes to establish accounting records of material in the CEC warehouse in accordance with the law. The second recommendation – to assign a person to the warehouse for the quantities determined by the list and to establish and keep records of the entry and exit of the warehouse. Third – performs a regular annual list of warehouses. Fourthly, after each purchase of paper for the printing of ballots, a thin amount of excess paper, destroyed paper when printing, and a report shall be drawn up and the CEC shall decide on the handling of materials in the skret. I just can't believe that the CEC doesn't have it, or that there's even someone who's registered to do any work that doesn't have this, and that has a warehouse, of course. And if this is true, and I have no reason to doubt because this is a report by the commission that was establishing the situation, then no wonder all this stuff that my colleagues were saying. I think it's worse than we know, because we can't get all the data. Yeah, for example. I have here one piece of information about the sale there of some paper that remains, I guess, I don't know, I don't know, also from that report, which says that he, I don't know, was selling 30 fencing per kilogram in 2005, 2007 at 30, 2010 at 20, 2012 by the 10th buyer. The same means the paper was sold differently without, of course, offering some public so that others could report, etc., etc. And that's of course in the report, officially standing. Another sentence in the 19th report says that no list of materials in the warehouse was made between 2004 and 2014. Watch out for 10 years, no one has made a list of tickets, and we kill ourselves there in polling stations when we miss or have an extra one, these 10 years haven't been listed. And indeed no one has been able to seriously explain the information or the fact that this committee has written that there is no record of 35 tons of paper, or that it is missing. We didn't get any valid information from the CEC. I, some doubt here in the CEC's ability, I think our CEC is very capable of making elections without 35 tons of paper. It means that people do it very appropriately, because, watch out, there's no 35 tons of paparais and it's still normal, the elections are both regular and I don't know what it is. In the end, I will support all the conclusions that are on the background to try to make a step in terms of more voter confidence in the election process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26083	Thank you. Zaim Backović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26084	For all of us sitting here, it's clear that from the first to the present no election has been regular. At the very least, there is a symptomatic total number of invalid ballots that are higher in this country than in one country in Europe. We are when the elections are at stake, in what is presented to the public, the most illiterate, here I am now speaking entirely, not to say the peoples, the people, but to the states of Europe. But don't lie to the devil and the only country in Europe where you wait a month to publish results and more. I don't know how much you know, but in one Germany that has much less voters than Bosnia and Herzegovina, under alleged signs, the results are within 24 hours, one Russia that has 12 time zones has results within 24 hours, we have a close neighbour Croatia with results within 6 hours, Bosnia and Herzegovina within 30 days. Someone will have to explain what it is and come under the knife, under the guillotine, under the law, those who produce irregularity and the illegal leadership of this country. Because those who are not regularly elected, they lead illegally, and that is without a dilemma irregular. A colleague who spoke before me told me about the ballot control, and I wanted to say the exact same thing, and I'm going to support it entirely. Farsa's ability to control polling stations is just a lie. Four high-level HD cameras with a central memory unit to control the polling stations and control the counting of ballots cost with a 200 KM installation, times so much, a million and something comes, not those hundreds of millions that are spoken of by the CEC, which, of course, is not here today. And there aren't those who should answer us how it's possible to see the multiple entry of a voice person and those in that place don't cancel the results to repeat them, but they say everything is regular. A man just walks in, votes, goes to the end of the line, votes again, goes to the end of the line, votes again, and it's a regular election post. ... cited an example of a family with its name and last name whose 11 members come together to vote, all 11 voters are highly educated people, one of them is on one list. The voter has only one vote in the polling post. So 10 highly educated are illiterate. And the commission doesn't admit, they don't want to be examined, it's all regular. Around the purchase of votes, this can not be written in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think one day the world's bestseller will be filmed, the way people come into office. That corruption is, in fact, total corruption generated by the elections, because the biggest corruption is 20 I've given one conclusion there and I won't give up on it because I've exactly here said 200 KM costs 4 high-resistance HD cameras with the possibility of zooming, possibility [[the speaker is warned on time]] With a central unit and, imagine, 30 days of storage, and 200 marks, and they've given us millions. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It's just lies. He won't let go of what he does all the time. He steals the election, and he knows who he is. They've been the ones who've been acting in continuity for almost 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26085	Thank you. Staša Košarac, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26086	Thank you, Chairman. I don't think it's good for us to discuss today and not have members of the Central Election Commission. Here and through several views through the proposed conclusions, I suppose in a discussion with the members of the Central Election Commission, there could be an answer. We come again, I would say, into a kind of stalemate, that we will lose energy, debate and time, and that there will be no adequate neither conclusions nor what should be the goal of all of us. So I find it quite unnecessary to discuss without members of the Central Election Commission. There is a public view that there are manipulations in the electoral process. Each of us who participates in the electoral process has the opportunity to express his position when it has evidence in accordance with the applicable legal rules and is seeking some kind, in accordance with the law, of those authorities responsible for conducting the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The second thing, all political parties are equally able to, through participation in election committees under the current legislative regulation, oversee the electoral process at each polling post. Where there is no obvious agreement there is no manipulation, so I realized, where there is an agreement between political parties that are participating in the polling post there is manipulation, so I realized. But... I'd like to open something completely different. I think we all have an opportunity to intervene. It seems to me here that we are producing additional mistrust with the Central Election Commission and that it is done by political parties. And I don't want to go into the reasons they're doing it, but there's something I want to say here in front of all of us. The structure of the CEC was almost identical in 2010 when the elections were and in 2012, 2014, 2016, and we did not talk about it every time in this way with this dynamic. I think the key problem here is that it didn't start in time to make changes to the election law and we came at such a stage as to further express doubts whether it will be possible to implement it from a technological approach or technical approach and, of course, the budget. And that's why we had the view that we couldn't get into some kind of amendment to the Electoral Law in some context, because we didn't have that project and that kind of election implementation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We thought, and today, it is very important that in the coming period, first and foremost through one pilot project, financial resources are provided and... If it were necessary to do so, it is definitely necessary, and to execute significant ones, I would say, corrections when it comes to the identification of voters, counting, reading, writing, etc. I hear that if I had proof that it was in some place in Iraq that if I were an election process actor, I would surely seek the protection of the authorities. But I think that in this way we are just putting pressure on the CEC, and that in doing so, the CEC will only be able to get one answer from the CEC - to work in accordance with the law and to implement Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law. We obviously don't have time to change the law, it's late, and 21 I think that, and I want to just comment and say, that I'm not inclined to pressure the CEC or other bodies, and I'm also inclined to suspect that some public institution that works in accordance with the Constitution will violate the law, the law that will violate the law, and that I'm prejudicing that it will do some, I'd say, embezzlement. And we also don't have a CEC response, maybe the CEC has some lower normative act, maybe there's something, ballots have been printed in other election processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina that are behind us, probably some kind of control. We don't have that answer today. I'm inclined to say that no conclusions will affect the CEC, we're just creating pressure and noise. People have called the election according to the applicable law, we haven't changed the regulation because we left late. I mean, in the end, I mean it's very harmful, there's going to be different kinds of perceptions in the public, we don't have an adequate response from people from the Central Election Commission who may have been able to give some answers based on some of the proposed conclusions and dilemmas that we all have, and that deviation exists for sure. I think that the law should have been dealt with long before and of course I think that at this point we should devote, personally, to the capacities within our own political parties, reduce some kind of possible manipulation, if some kinds of manipulation and deviation are shown to be reported to the competent authorities, and I don't think we should raise some tension, because we energy and all need to be directed. Here I am ending very quickly, we should focus when it was, and it was long before it was supposed to be here in Parliament when the amendments to the Election Law were on the agenda. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26087	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26088	So correction, it's not a problem time, maybe you weren't listening to Mr. Košarac what I was saying. Last October, we wrote the Law, proposed it and adopted it in December. So it's not a problem time, we had time, we had everything that was, the ones that wanted to change everything they did in time. So, the problem is that they won't have parties, and here's yours, not parties to give up that commodity so that they can continue to manipulate the elections, steal, set up elections like they've done so far, as they're called, for years. So that's the problem. And I think the thing should be called by the end of the right name, so they won't give up that security, so they're just making a real excuse, so it's not on time, and it's not true. Here, I'm telling you, that was proposed 10 months ago. And then the people in the Central Election Commission used the position instead of helping, to respond in time to what they were supposed to do, they did not respond at all to those demands, or conclusions they received from this Parliament. Another thing, the budget. I mean, we had, and last year when we adopted the budget, we had the current law, so if it was prepared, it could be built in. So it's not primarily your replica now, but it is for those who say there's no money. Now you have, say, money, 105 million from excises standing unscheduled, no one anywhere, you could agree on it, there you had time, you had a wish, you had a policy, you did it. So even you had at one point, someone was saying it was funny, and by the end it was honest and fair, Mayor Zenica, when that was the current story, Fuad Kasumović was talking then, so if the problem of those five million marks was mentioned to cost someone to introduce a scanner, here's the town of Zenica will provide... You just make fair, as it is called, elections, throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we have elections. I'm talking about if there's a way to change something, and 22 if you want to look for these excuses and deal with what you're dealing with, then you also have the possibility of bringing us into this position, that nothing in that sense is done. So it's only important to see who, how, and who's on which side, and who actually wants what.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26089	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26090	Dear colleague Košarac, I have cited direct examples concerning the regularity of the election process. There is a clear view, and polling stations, etc., I didn't want to go any further where it happened, remember that there are videos of bus drivers that the locals have never seen in their lives, never in their lives. Which, what addresses and where they are registered, the Central Election Commission didn't want to respect either. Trusting something you don't believe yourself, I understand, because you belong to a political option that has been given mandates in these election cycles. How and in what way will one day explain it, everything in life goes by, and this sitting right here, here, it's close so that at least 60-70% of us won't be here anymore. We must act with honor here in these situations. Yes, there is manipulation with ballots. Yeah, there's a manipulation of ballot printing. Yes, there is manipulation of the distribution of voting material. Yes, there is manipulation with something called entering irregular and putting into the regular process of counting ballots. That is why we must make at least an effort to control these processes as much as possible. There's no telling who's obstructing law enforcement here. It will never be able to be deleted historically, it's recorded in the stenograms of these sessions, and you'll know exactly who and how he obstructed that today we don't have a system that can at least as our neighbours have results in 24 hours. Serbia has as many voting bodies as Bosnia and Herzegovina, with results in less than 12 hours. Let's not close our eyes to facts, let's not be blind to what's happening in front of our eyes. Today, yesterday, already in continuity, people's training from ruling parties, One of the training sites is in Hrasnica, Sarajevo, as well as how they will cancel ballots and how they will steal votes. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26091	Thank you. Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26092	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I don't have the ambition here to defend anyone, or defend myself from anything, nor do I have the ambition to say that any political party manipulates and steals in the election process, because I don't know, don't you, you don't know, don't know, don't know, don't know, don't know, don't know, don't know, don't know, don't know, don't know, don't know, don't know, don't know, don't know, don't know, don't know, don't know, don't know. We hear that there are, when we hear, competent authorities and that's all our potential, our capacity, as well as the amendments to the law. I do not accept that thesis, after all, election processes were conducted in accordance with the positive legal, in accordance with the Electoral Law. There were monitors in the electoral process, political parties and the NGO sector, and I want only, and my discussion specifically referred to that with no conclusion of the House of Representatives we cannot oblige the CEC to do otherwise than it says 23 in the current legislation, and that we have not used that time in the past in a quality way, addressing all examples of practice, all the challenges, all the problems and through all that we do the amendments to the law, provide the funds and that the CEC acts according to the current Electoral Law, possibly amended by the Electoral Law, which I was talking about. And again, we're entering bigger traps, so we're asking the Council of Ministers to appoint an ad hoc body or some commission from representatives of repressive or security institutions that should take care of any irregularities and abuses. We cannot force people to break the laws and they, but if there is an irregularity at some polling station and if it is in accordance with the current Electoral Law, of course they should respond, and the SIPA and everyone else, and the prosecution, should react, we have had such cases as I know in the past several, but we cannot put them in the ad hoc commission that they are dealing with electoral legislation, because it is not in accordance with the law. But then when the CEC does, we have a duty to ask for both the SIPA and the others. What does the Intelligence and Security Agency have to do with an election process, in which country does the Intelligence and Security Agency have an election process? ________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] They have information, everything stands, but what if it's on the action team that we're supposed to prejudge, Give me a minute, too, and you let the gentleman know something's about to happen. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The first signal that something has happened is that our people are on election boards and polling stations, the NGO sector is certainly embedded in polling stations. I'm afraid that we're entering some material that's not in accordance with the law, we're empowering some institutions that aren't in charge of it, and I just have a feeling we want to make extra complications. So much, my wish was to speak in that direction, not to qualify anyone to steal, not any political party, not any individual, voices, that he was dealing with some manipulations, and I wanted to draw attention to the structure of the CEC, which is almost identical in all election processes, I think there have been four, five, maybe more lately, and we're choosing the Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26094	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26095	Well, here, I would say a summary of my colleagues and colleagues who had previously discussed it, and first, since only now a written proposal has arrived, proposals, colleagues Aleksandra Pandurević and, behold, I would refer to the first proposal – the Council of Ministers of BiH is tasked with forming an action team with the task to support and combat any possible election irregularities. So, when that sounds, I would, say, support it if I were to remember outside the white room, in front of the small screens and follow this, so, if I wasn't politically active, or if I wasn't a representative in Parliament, then I'd say a very wonderful proposal, and that's certainly my colleague's intention. But the Council of Ministers, who makes the Council of Ministers? They form the ruling coalition, and regardless of whether you, party colleague Aleksandra PandureviPandurević or anyone from the DF, so the model that insists is that they will also be elected to this action team by party people, and that may currently fit, let's say, my 24 colleagues Aleksandra Pandurević from that entity, let's say, to get his party people on that action team, let's say, to us from the Democratic Front, I don't know why it would be absolutely appropriate. So, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, no one in this Parliament, at any function, in any agency, any action team, the ad hoc commission, has been elected without being a party man. So that model exists. If the coalitions in Bosnia and Herzegovina were made in such a way that a list was drawn up and based on the will and desire of coalition partners to change what counterpart Pandurević was talking about in the previous discussion, not to get what happened in the election process in Zvornik or any other place, then this would make sense. Now, I don't know, so I understand what some of the debaters wanted here was, to change, to stand in the end, but I think it's an empty phrase that most of us, so here I can count on, to demand, to fight for something, but in this model that exists today, it's absolutely impossible. Also, colleague Pandurević mentions the prosecution. The prosecution that it is not politically dependent and painted with all the political colors that exist in all the parliaments and congregations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, what counterpart Pandurević had discussed at the previous point, they would have already done, so we should not talk about thefts absolutely today, election manipulations because the prosecution would have done anything to stop it. So, I don't know. how...determined for something, very good sounds, it's very well written, but reality is quite something else. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26096	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26097	Two things. Košarac tried to explain that the CEC had been in a similar composition and earlier, without such frustration in Parliament with their work, i.e. their unhappiness. It would be possible to discuss the attitude and how similar it was, but here it is not a matter of composition but of what they do, or what they do. Earlier, they knew as much as they could and what they were laughing at, and what they shouldn't, and now they've raped themselves so much that they've gone past the living Parliament with some sort of act to implement the Constitutional Court's verdicts. So that's a difference and it's not a personal story for anyone or anyone, but simply that behavior comes out of the framework and the authority of the Central Election Commission itself, and what was done before. Of course they don't do it on their own initiative, of course there's a political background, of course there's more and more talk about no matter what the election results are, that SNSD and HDZ will, through influence, try to achieve their goal through the Central Election Commission. So, here, I'm not saying it's 300 percent like that, but I'm saying it's become a general place, so let's explain that's not the case. Another thing, counterpart Zaim Backović said such big things a few minutes ago and so disturbing things that I can't believe we just went over it and continued to discuss something else. The man behind the parliamentary speaker said in a parliamentary microphone that there are training centres for people who will violate the electoral process, steal votes or cancel ballots. And I can't believe that this threshold of tolerance for crime, corruption, irregularities is so much that after one such statement we continue the discussion as if nothing had happened. At the very least, it is a statement by the MPs in the state parliament that must be examined and these training centres if they exist, and it is publicly said, therefore, not 25 this story in the towers, so it must be processed And I congratulate my colleague Backović on publicly saying such things. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26098	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26099	I'm sorry that I'm just taking time for something that's so clear that I don't have any more words. The Central Election Commission's composition is a political composition. Let's talk, don't talk, don't talk, don't talk, it's made up by and in a way that puts people directly attached to the ruling oligarchy and the end into it. Every child in this country knows that. Another thing, and is the law forbidden to introduce an electrical count? So what is forbidden under the law can't, is it forbidden, so they didn't start doing it? It's not. Is the law prohibiting video surveillance? It's not. Does the law say after how many invalid votes the polling post is annulled? They're not writing, they're bringing in an act of their own. What are we talking about here? We're talking about a dictated Central Election Commission, whether we like it or not. Shall we have a succession? Well, Lidija Korać was a SDP proposal. As soon as the mandate ended, she returned to the vice president of the SDP. Would you like to take a turn? Now I can list them all and one, I deliberately mentioned her because I'm a friend and I know how much she worked with honor, because I'm a personal friend with her, so she won't be offended. I can count the rest of them now. ... Arnautović was one of the first people in Haris Silajdžić, came to the CEC, when he came in a tight welcome to the SDA, re-named. Should I pick it up? Here, look, I'll do it in a row, we can talk about everyone. And let's not talk here, we're honest. In my life, there's this sentence that's ugly, that I say for a pay phone. Those who steal the most speak of honesty. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26100	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26101	I thank the chairman. They've got some stuff here I have to say, we don't need any stolen votes, but we also don't want anyone to steal any votes from us. If the Council of Ministers forms an action team will not be political representatives, the Prosecutor's Office will give its member, in the SIPA and the inspectors, as far as I know, can't be members of political parties, the Intelligence Inspectors can't be members of political parties, even if I believe that from those three people will respond, that one is a decent one. Shall we say that there is no one decent in these three institutions who will respond to the electoral theft. Of course they also need members of the Intelligence Agency, not in the sense that they're processing something, but they're the ones who certainly have some information first. They, for example, have information when money is transferred from a public company to a fictitious firm and then they are used to buy elections and they are, then it's their job to inform this action team, to inform the prosecutors and to tell them and to transfer the money. Here's, let's say, one graphic example. In Republika Srpska's road maintenance tender, a company that is 12 million more expensive than 26 is first-placed. And you know what happens then, here, these days it happens to you in East Sarajevo, in Lukavica, that company doesn't maintain roads, so we have unscathed hedges, so we have holes on the regional roads, but the head of the roads of that company, which he gave it to, sent there by villages and by East Sarajevo a list, which the media published, of 85 streets, courtyards, houses, and said – go to the asphalt people, these are safe voices, because he's on the list. I suppose such information should gather intelligence, if from nothing, from the media, and inform the prosecutors and that the prosecutor then reacts and see if it's an abuse of public use, that the prosecution and police agencies check in the yard – good day hosts, did you pay for the asphaltation of this? No, it was sent to me by the travel director, Nenad Nešić. Mr. Nešić, answer for it. That's what I'm talking about, and that's why they all need it. I think, well, here, Mr. Košarac is angry here, so please, last election indeed, in Zvornik some Blagoje Šupić from Trebinj, here I repeat from His party, only the CEO of the Elektroprivreda that no one has ever heard of, had 4,000, 5,000 votes more, than him five times more, tell me that's possible. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26102	Thank you. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong assumption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26103	Well, I wouldn't overly comment on the debate of any individual here because I think they're not going to help make elections more fair and more correct, but I think it's the opposite. When we talk about the election process, I really do, and you all know it here, I will repeat what I said in the debate about one Election Law, that the existing election board selection system and observers and competences, both of them and each other, in electoral places, leads to the fact that electoral fraud, if there are, and there are, can exist, I will serve one for me here as an unpopular but current term, only as a joint criminal enterprise of all political actors at the polling station and all political actors from this hall, and you know it very well. And I have the impression that this debate is an alibi debate for those who may suspect what the election results will look like. I have answered to correct, apologize for this, I have answered to ask my colleague, Šepić, to withdraw this conclusion regarding the House of Nations because it is not correct to the second House of our Parliament. Watch what it says -- the BiH House of Representatives asks the BiH House of Peoples to urgently end the procedure for the adoption of the Election Law. We can indeed call upon the House of Nations to urgently end the procedure concerning the Law that we have sent to the House of Nations, but to imply the conquest of this law, that according to the second House in which the living people sit is not correct, is not in the spirit of our cooperation with the other House so far. And I at least ask my colleague to modify his conclusion so that we don't lose that level of communication between our two homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26104	Thank you. Senad Šepić, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26105	Maybe it's not the happiest formula, but just for a little while. So this House opened up that possibility to give each other orders on what to do and what procedure to do when we had the Excise Act. I didn't invent anything new in that sense, and then there was space, possibilities, politics, what it's called, the one, the deal, and I expect it to be real on this as well. And I think that in that sense, we don't play around these language variations, this is a principled thing, we're asking that people just don't abuse their positions in the House of Nations, by the way of this Law they've done so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26106	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26107	I think it may be necessary to supplement this conclusion that Kožul would be clearer for colleagues to come to the meeting with the HDZ delegates, not to be like the last time they didn't come, so the possibility of living this law has failed, to adopt and frame themselves during a period when the Central Election Commission, under the new law, could conduct elections that would be fairer and fairer. And as for whether or not we can draw conclusions, we have shown that, not to repeat, when we adopted excise duties, we have had more conclusions than each other's House and nothing has ever been, nor from the Constitution, the law, the rules, the statutes, everything we have broken, unfortunately, and the Constitutional Court has not had the power to say that it is not in order, because it is basically the pressure that was not yours, it was the pressure that would be of those who have an interest and come from some foreign countries that, here, do not sit here but have a great impact on the financial flows in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26108	Thank you. Discussion, jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26109	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Since I am one of the promoters of the 18th agenda, I feel the need to give a brief explanation that motivated us to seek debate in this House on this subject, so that we can all be more clear about what is going on and what was the current situation. At that time, in April, we followed the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina who spoke about the fact that there are irregularities and irregularities in the management of the Central Election Commission's warehouse. Also in public are records that undoubtedly speak of 36 tonnes of paper which print ballots, so estimates have been made to print 500,000 ballots off the paper. And this is very disturbing news for all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina who expect a fair and fair election process, and especially for us MPs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, but not because we open this debate with the aim of pressing the Central Election Commission, but to shed light on the situation and to identify and tell the public what is true, what is true, whether 36 tonnes of paper have disappeared from the Central Election Commission's warehouse or not. It's not 36 kilograms that's been gone for 36 tonnes, so I'm asking myself how can this be taken out of the warehouse that nobody notices, that it's just the Commission that makes the list in the warehouse in its minutes. Well, it has to be organised, if 36 tonnes of paper is exported from the 28 Central Election Commission's warehouse, so it has to be known, who did it, which way and why, or the Central Election Commission has to explain to the public what it is, nobody here is accusing anyone, but we want to know what the truth is, first of all we representatives, but also the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So how do we trust the Central Election Commission when they do not keep their warehouse up to date for ten years, only in 2014 do they make first lists. Well, that's absurd. The Central Election Commission should be the institution of responsibility, public, transparency, objectivity, impartiality and that we have no doubts about it. That's what we need if we want fair and fair elections, if we want to trust these election results. I have not had any doubt about them so far, I understand all the irregularities that are happening and I understand that the Central Election Commission cannot adequately monitor it and are not responsible for many things, for many things we are responsible for because we need to improve the legislative framework, but I do not understand what is happening and what their jurisdiction has to take care of, and must tell the public. Not today, they were in last session when we discussed the report on the implementation of the law under the Central Election Commission's jurisdiction for 2017, they were due today because today this agenda point, i.e. these two points of the agenda, is very much related to the work of the Central Election Commission. A colleague, Novaković, set it well, that such an important institution does not do basic things that are very important for the electoral process and that need to remove all doubts. And I call on the Central Election Commission to shed light on this situation, to be introduced to us by MPs, MPs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which is true. We have to trust the record that made it nice and have people standing behind their signatures, who signed it, and it's not any pressure, but we just want to know the truth and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26110	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26111	Good afternoon. I welcome you to the chairman, all colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. So, I didn't mean to do anything special under this point or these agenda points, but as the debate was mostly led, so on the subject of manipulation and theft, and not actually the whole work of the Central Election Commission, the problems, etc., then I decided to report. So, my party to which I belong, I hope, and in the new council, and about these manipulations, the thefts, are mostly spoken by those losers, so I guess that's how it's gonna be again, and as far as I know, no election has been declared against the law, but it's not the subject, but they're talking about thefts and manipulations, so I belong to a party who will no longer support any change, so I hope that I can defend it here in the next term, until it changes the law in accordance with the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court. So, that's the biggest theft we've ever witnessed here, you've all, most of you here, prevented the Constitutional Court's decision from being implemented. So, you, once a constituent people, are able, some, to steal 18 years of the anti-constitutional right to choose their own MPs. If that's the case, I'll just tell you the example, I won't mention his name, a foreigner in the House of the Federation, who has twenty Hrvat on the list in 2013, and he's got 239 votes. So who chose him, so who chose him... _________(?) 29 Nikola Lovrinović 293, who chose him? [[no microphone turned on]] Are you telling me it's a fair choice of representatives of the Croatian people, are you telling me that? So we allow all of the people to be elected by his representatives beyond his will and continue these activities... You've prevented the Constitutional Court's decision from being implemented here, about this House, and you want someone to introduce you to the cameras. So, Mr. Backović and his colleague can see it without a camera, and without a camera, you can see that you're stealing from us, and without a camera. And my colleague Kožul said well – everyone who is there in these polling stations participates in the thefts, it was confirmed, what, if I understood it correctly, Mrs Pandurević on the example she spoke. So everyone there was involved. If fair and fair elections are wanted, let all political actors behave fairly in the election, and it will not be, therefore, all of us are lying. Therefore, until this House allows the Croatian people to choose their representatives legitimately, we will not support any change, all that remains for us is theft and this is the biggest theft that exists in this country. This doesn't make any sense anymore, this is an anti-constitutional matter, and this Parliament also participates in the anti-constitutional work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26112	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26113	Well, my colleague, Šepić, thank him for that, in this initiative he stated in fact how, that the legitimacy or legitimacy of who is the number of Hrvat or Hrvatica actually gets in the BiH central. And not only did the HDZ of BiH agree to this, this Assembly has agreed to this, and all other congregations have agreed to that, i.e. we have been living for 25 years. If that were not the case, this Parliament, despite the living two Hrvat from the other party, and this is the Democratic Front, all the commissions were chosen by the Hrvat from HDZ, all the delegations of the Hrvat from the HDZ who even go there and talk about what we had, here, to hear from Mr Lovrinović, therefore, embarrass us there and beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And besides not being legitimate enough by this example of how we live today, those who are not in the HDZ of BiH, says counterpart Lovrinović that we are still additional and losers. Therefore, HDZ has this legitimacy to majorise everything around it, anything possible alive and inanimate that is not a member or member of the HDZ BiH. But Mr. Lovrinović forgets one fact, he just said in his presentation, he says – I hope in the future, too, I wrote down, I hope to be able to represent in the future, what he just said here. He forgets the fact that the amendment of the law to the HDZ model was passed which they as a model pushed, here, all the time in the procedure, Mr. Lovrinović of the Middle Bosnian Canton could only sit in his home chair and watch us over small screens. So, he needs us to get up, to thank him for not allowing that model to be adopted because he could no longer be elected anywhere because the Hrvat from that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Hrvatica, which he is talking about and from which he comes, would no longer be good enough Hrvat or legitimate enough Hrvat or Hrvatica to represent the interests of that people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26114	Thank you, 30 Salko Sokolović, for correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Oh, here's a replica of Mr. Lovrinović. With respect to what he said and the anomalies he pointed out, I know that there are and in no way am I the advocate of any such story, but if you want to honestly solve a problem then you can't suggest any new anomaly or suggest a similar solution. Here, I will only take the hercegovački-Neretva canton, so how can you introduce me to the story of voting such a legal project in which you suggest that 118,000 Hrvat in the House of Peoples choose 5 representatives, 92,000 Bošnjak one representative and 6,000 Srbin two representatives. So if you want to solve the problem then you have to look at it from the other side, you can't make new discriminations, which are obviously here... And when you have one such normal solution, everyone will support it. So, as I will explain, raise my hand, I come from the Herzegovic-Neretva Canton, that 92,000 Bošnjak in the House of the Peoples represent a Bošnjak because you think this is the right thing to do because the legitimate 5 Hrvat are enough for that space, and not to talk about the Sarajevo Canton, I know about the representation of the Hrvat, etc. Therefore, do not condemn us for why we do not need to be condemned, we want to be represented in the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH in one correct way depending on the demographic structure of certain election units. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26116	Thank you. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong assumption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26117	I will very specifically correct the wrong quote of my colleague, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. So, from the Central Bosnia and Herzegovina/Canton, from where Col. Lovrinović comes from, according to the current law or regulation of the law declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional, which is about to be re-implemented through the Federal Parliament, three representatives of the Hrvat came from the Federation of BiH's House of Peoples. According to a proposal from the HNS party that was in this House from that same canton/containment, four Hrvat, representatives of the Hrvat, should come to the federal House of Peoples. So, notorna is the untrue which, and the manipulation that is often used and which is used by several who question the Constitutional Court's verdict, the legislative proposals related to it, is notoriously false about both Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Bosnia itself, and the Central Bosnian County as regards the House of Peoples and Representatives of the Hrvat in the House of Peoples. And I didn't expect my colleague, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, to speak affirmably of BiH's HDZ when I heard her speak of her party, what can we expect of this other one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26118	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26119	Thank you very much. Mr. Sokolović, it's best to keep the current situation. So we basically applied mathematics, so the number of peoples in total and the number of people in that constituency and we got what we got and we suggested it. You didn't suggest anything, I don't mean you personally, but those who refused our law were just going to refuse and that possibility to implement the Constitutional Court's decision in order to maintain the existing situation, so that hrvat's legitimacy from Gorazda would give these numbers that I speak, where twenty Hrvat live... and get 239 votes. So, it's legitimacy, it's not HDZ's, I guess we're both there, too, is it, colleague Majo. I'm staying here first and foremost to tell you that the Constitutional Court has made it clear that the House of Peoples is not home to the county, not home to the county, you won't understand, you don't have to, you won't understand. So one day you'll have to understand it, so it's the House of Peoples and it's a clear decision of the Constitutional Court that he must express the legitimate will of the Croatian people. With this law that we have proposed, or someone else that you may suggest, and to solve it, there is no problem only the Hrvat must choose him, not the illegal Hrvat from Gorazd spoken of by Maja Gasal-The Vražalica, so neither are the Hrvat. It's clear what we're talking about. However, I understand what Mrs. Maja is saying, she still remains in respect of the political will of the Croatian people, she actually hates it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26120	Thank you. Mr. Salko Sokolović, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26121	Well, thank you, Your Honor. Well, Mr. Lovrinović, and I totally agree with you, but then the question is, why do we need cantons? I suggest we abolish them and then in that collection of Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat living in the Federation's space we see what it is, the House of Peoples, I agree. So, the existence of a canton, the electoral units that are tied to the cantons, determines me to speak like this, nothing more. I understand that you see it differently politically, but this is what people's, human, what we all see with our eyes, which is a demographic structure in the area of canton, the Federation or the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26122	Thank you. Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26123	Since you are now holding a session, my colleague Lovrinović has again transferred to me, so I refer to the Code of Conduct of Representatives, that I hate the will of the Croatian people. I expect that either you or whoever should already warn him of those words. 32 Another thing, counterpart Kožul, who says he did not expect, is that I am affirmative of BiH's HDZ as a party because I speak badly, or I don't know how it was expressed, about my parent party. My colleague Kožul, the difference between you and me, is that you have read, or understood at all what it says in that text You would know that I am talking about partyocracy, about all parties, about the model, or most parties, and while I have the courage to talk about it, you will still just nod your head to provide yourself another year in this Assembly or someone else. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26124	Thank you very much. I call on all MPs to observe in their discussions the Codex, the Rules of Procedure, not to give each other any offensive words and to treat each other in a dignified manner as they should like this House. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26125	The President-in-Office of the agenda reads – Information on the current position, preparedness assessment, etc. Instead, we shared a story about something that had nothing to do with it. Namely, who is legitimate or illegal are some other stories for some other points of the agenda. No one will tell me that Edhem Ćemerlić is illegal, his whole family pleads to him as Hrvat, but they're not in HDZ for generations, but you're saying they're illegal. You can't by name and last name and place of stay talk about legitimacy and illegality. Then he is illegal to anyone in the diaspora for Croatia or those in other political options, they are all illegal. We're playing something that doesn't make any sense with this agenda point. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, no, I'm saying we're playing with something that doesn't matter, the agenda is something else. _________(?) SECHIFIC [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26127	Please, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26128	Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26129	Please let me run the session. So, you, Mr. Backović, are quite right to step down and step down significantly from the agenda, but you yourself in the second part, when you reported for a warning against keeping the agenda, went in that direction. Please, please, so here's the point I don't know about, but please, I am obliged to say this. Mrs. Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26130	Mr. Emrić, and finally all of us. This is the most common information to be mentioned is related to this controversial material that is missing. Since Mr Emrić is a member of the Finance and Budget Commission, I will remind him that the Finance and Budget Commission has discussed the 2016 Audit Report and the Central Election Commission has received both positive opinions on financial reporting as well as on compliance. What does that mean? All the issues covered by the financial reporting, meaning the situation of assets, sources of funds and budgets, are in line with accepted standards, so there are no objections to audits. As for the opinion on compliance, compliance with the laws affecting the Central Election Commissions, in all relevant laws and other regulations which are governed by the CEC, is fine and positive. As part of this 2016 report, only under unrealised recommendations exist, the CEC is said to have failed to take action to address shortcomings in the electoral management system. This system has not been improved, and this is considered to be an observation that has not been carried out, but does not question the opinion of the review. So they're positive in both senses. If it were true, as Mr. Emrić says, that it was about tones and I don't know what everything, then that would be a negative opinion. I also looked at 2015. Here I am, and in 2015 it has been stated but it also says, most importantly, a sentence that says – the list committee could not determine the actual amount of paper with the said stamp and ask the Central Commission only to match the unit of measures and format paper. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So it's about things that obviously happened by mistake. They wouldn't get a positive opinion if there was a theft or disappearance of such a large number of electoral material. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26131	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26132	Thank you. Well, you see, Mr. Magazinović and I proposed this item of the agenda three months ago, that is, three weeks before the election is called, and this session is held only today, so almost three months later, and it's only today, that is, this part of the agenda is, it's only now being discussed what it says about the inability of the College to organise the sessions of this House. And I believe it is the incompetence of the College, and I chair the Constitutional Commission and that Commission has held more sessions than this House. Something has never been removed from the House session because the Constitutional Commission has not held a session, and that cannot be said about the Foreign Affairs Commission, finance and budget, the Joint Commission on Human Rights, etc. So, because of incompetence or intent perhaps the College, whose two members are not even present today, are spinning like on the tape, we are discussing this after the elections have been called, after the parties have been reported, after the coalitions have been reported and four days before the release of the list. And if we adopt any conclusions today, you may not deliver them to the CEC until August, and I really don't see the purpose of something that Mr. Magazinović and I proposed for the best purpose three months ago, to discuss today. Our point speaks, here I quote – the need for elections to be held in a fair and fair atmosphere. The elections are not just election day, the election process has already begun on election day, not to list what happened in the election process again. 34 And just one more thing, the SBB will not support any conclusion that OSA would oversee the election process. The OSA has been without parliamentary and any other legitimate supervision for a year because of the co-ordinated action of SDA and SDS, and now someone is proposing that we let the Agency, which no one but Mr Izetbegović has been controlling for over a year, be able to control and oversee the electoral process. We won't support it. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26133	Thank you. Mr. Predrag Kožul, non-observation of the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26134	I apologize for having to use this business opportunity to say that it is very incorrect of Mr Arnaut to talk about commissions or commissions. When I mention the Committee on Finance and Budget in a negative context, I have to say as chairman of this Committee here that this committee held 67 sessions, so it's just as much as one or two sessions more than there are sessions of the House, but that's not how I get to the College of the House, and it's never happened that the Committee holds a session because of the lack of quorum. For the sake of some five or ten interests, it is clear that this House must not be spoken falsely and incorrectly to its colleagues, according to the committees. And I really insist, here, not on the ethical code, but this isn't happening in the end. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26135	Thank you. Mr. jasmin Emrić, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26136	I have already said in my debate that I am not saying anything, but I am referring to documents available to the public and on which there have already been speeches, which is the Commission's Journal of the Commission for the List of Central Election Commissions which submitted the Report and has a number, has a date of that number, and in which it stands under point 6 of the conclusion – in the previous period from 2004 to 2014, there is no list of materials in the warehouse, too, we can say that for 35.8 tonnes of paper there is no documentation to determine where the said amount of paper is located. There are also recommendations that counterpart Novaković has already discussed, all of which are listed in the Census Commission act and signed by those members who were members of the Commission and who made a list in the Central Election Commission. So, I just called on the Central Election Commission to shed light on it and that we know the real truth and to regain the plunging trust. And if it was thrown, yes, because if someone claims they don't have 36 tons of paper to print ballots, then it's a very serious doubt, and we can't just go over that fact that exists in the acts. And I can only discuss and conclude what is contained in the official reports, so that the Central Election Commission report on the implementation of the Central Election Commission's 2017 law on the 155th point (f) of the Central Election Commission report does not mention anything that would indicate these irregularities, but we are familiar with all of this from the media, from the public space where these documents have become available and these are very serious things that the Central Election 35 Commission must manifest. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And I'm surprised the review didn't come up with this file, too, if it's all been thoroughly combed, so that the MPs know who we should have known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26137	Thank you. Damir Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26138	Well, here, I would refer to something that my colleague Košarac said, which is not there, and here is Mrs. Majkić. I just wish you'd told us who voted in the Commission for that report. And Košarac mentioned the House of Representatives as the House who elects members of the Central Electoral Commission, and for that reason I and for everything we have heard here, because of all the irregularities mentioned in the work of the CEC, would suggest a conclusion, meaning – that the House of Representatives should be declared by voting on the removal of members of the Central Election Commission. I think it is an option that exists and is open and through the Election Law and that simply, although they have been removed, they must carry out their mandate until the end, until the implementation, i.e. until the final results of the election are announced and that this is the only way in which you can not approach it, but simply to give answers to everything here says colleague Emrić, colleague Magazinović, colleague Arnaut. Because it's obvious that for years we've had problems in the work of the CEC, that for years it's been the same people who behave these functions and that it would be one of the measures that will restore confidence in the election process itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26139	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26140	My kolegica Majkić, I mean not for bad purposes, but tried to have a debate with fellow MPs about what they read from the official document. counterpart Emrić and counterpart Novaković spoke very precisely about it, using as a background document from the Central Election Commission. When we talk about these people, colleague Majkić, you can either get along politically or disagree with them, but no one in this room can argue that it is a matter of extremely correct people who would say nothing at will, especially without documents as a basis. And this time, therefore, is the document that came out of the Central Election Commission, among other things, for this segment of the debate. And we should not discuss this with each other but rather have people here, which unfortunately we don't have, for which reason I don't know, who will explain to us how that commission formed within the Central Election Commission to bring these assessments, put them on paper, as we don't need to discuss with each other what she wanted, which is why or why she didn't do the Central Election Commission to fill the House of Peoples, and about a document that came out in public where it was obvious that people were ready, that there were no such reactions as she was, to engage in a job that is the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH or other legislative bodies and bodies of the executive authorities that already have the authority to implement the constitutional court rulings. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26141	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26142	It is quite unusual how MPs can trust some list committee of institutions and not trust the Central Election Commission. Since the existence of this Parliament, it has never been disputed by what the audit has written and has found that what is written does not affect opinion. So that's what they are and we're assessing it as the highest grade, but we're telling them that they should take action just as an unrealised recommendation to remove the shortcomings in the election material management system. So, I can't figure it out, we've been taken to consider what a list committee is doing, so whether we're going to watch what the list committees are doing in all the institutions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, please, well, it's late, buddy, you might have thought but it can't. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26145	Please don't discuss it from the scene.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26146	So, please, what the review says, we've all voted for audit reports, no one has challenged and it's not correct, so we've brought ourselves to the point where these people aren't sitting here, because the way we're attacking these people who work there is saying enough, they'd better get out and wait for us to go, but to defend something that's impossible to defend here.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26147	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26148	First, colleague Majkić, the review said, and you read and reminded us that the problem they found there was management of the election material. So that's what the audit found. And what else were we talking about than the management of the election material that the audit found to be inadequate, the revision, you read, I didn't, look, I didn't even know. The fact that they gave a positive or negative opinion does not mean that they managed well or not, they realized that they did not manage. So there was no good management of the election material. This isn't some commission, this is the Central Election Commission committee, the list committee they made, we didn't create a commission for them, they created a commission, and then they couldn't explain what the commission was saying. Please don't, so we're not attacking anyone here, it would be much better if people came here and explained how wrong this is, it's not working, it's not a good commission, we didn't understand. And this didn't go public because relations within the CEC are good, but because they're not good, and this was brought out in public by one of the CEC members, and maybe two or three. Because it wouldn't have come out in public if there were such wonderful relationships as we might have seemed in time. So this was also found in public because there are very unprincipled there alignments, arrangements, mixings, etc. So one of the members of the Commission goes to convince MPs of one thing, and then the same ones convinces the other MPs to another, etc., etc. But I'm not in favour of replacing members of the Electoral Commission during the process that has begun, it's going to be done by some others. I'm gonna have people come out and say where we're wrong, if we're wrong. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Let the public, they don't have to come here, let them go public and say that all of this isn't true. I'll be very happy and satisfied if they say none of this is true and that the election process is perfect and that they control it perfectly. I'll be very pleased, then I'll make sure that those who won the election have really won the election and that it's the will of the citizens. [[the speaker is warned on time]] This is how I doubt it will be an expression of the will of the citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26149	Thank you. jasmin Emrić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26150	Once again, I must say, we are not accusing anyone, we are not putting pressure on anyone, we are only looking for an indication of what is already in the public space in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and these are documents that have just come from the Central Election Commission. And the Central Election Commission has no problem with Jasmina Emrić, but with the commission they appointed, because apparently the commission they appointed has identified a real situation, and someone doesn't like it and the matter has leaked to the public. And we want to know what the real truth is, and that's just the question, to restore the trust and the doubt that already exists. There's something wrong here that wants to put some pressure on itself, that we want to do something behind the scenes, but here it's just important to look the truth in the eye, give a quality explanation of what's true. We have the documents available, and the Central Election Commission knows about these acts. If the review knew of such acts, I don't know, it should ask the review, whether they were doing it in such a way in detail or not, but I think if it's written that there aren't 36 tons of paper and it's gone, that it doesn't know where it is, then it's stealing, then we need to see where that paper where the ballots are being printed and how it's managed with that paper. Because that's probably going to happen next time if they don't get in line and make real records, surveillance and control of the Central Election Commission's electoral material storage facility. And that is the purpose of this discussion to indicate that this must be arranged and that it cannot be monitored so unscheduledly, but that these must be adequate controls that will guarantee the safety and regularity of the deposit and storage of election material at the Central Election Commission warehouse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26151	Thank you. 38 Discussion, Salko Sokolović, Mr Backović, this is your third, the third correction is the wrong quote. Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26152	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, here, I've lost my right to replicas, so let me just put a few facts through the discussion. I would like to say briefly that we must be aware, and it seems to me that we are entirely, the fact that members and the Central Election Commission and the City and Municipal Election Commissions and the Election Committees propose or delegate political parties. And as long as it's that kind of independence that we're talking about or the fair and fair choices that we're talking about here today, we're not going to get close to. If anyone can remember during the debate on proposed legislative projects to amend election laws, we have tried to intervene from the Independent bloc at least in this part of the electoral committees and in some way enter this story of objectivity, or depolitisation. I think the election committees are too much, they're the main issue, they should be depoliticalized. Politics, the political approach to the polling post should be defined through observers and monitoring the election process, and election committees should find the possibility to depolitise, and perhaps on the proposal that we did last time, to appoint from the unemployment bureau those who, here, have a high degree of professional education in these election committees and to complete the process. In any case, in such a way as to get as much real, this real election result and in some way run away from that, from the influences of politics at the time, on the day of the elections themselves. Because the state of the electoral committees is such that during the election process, their results are not only an unsatisfactory political entity compared to each other, but also within a political entity because of the openness of the list, we have problems in which some of the election committee friends prefer some people, others eliminate, and they are in the same vote, in the same political party. So these are the two problems I'm talking about, and I think that this independence of the electoral committee, which should in some way, be gained in some way in a higher percentage than it does now, now we have no independence, not even through inclusion, here, I say, and people who are highly educated and are at the employment bureaus, uh, maybe in some way could have been better solved. Now, if this isn't just a hollow story, they say, we're going to try this period until the election, we're going to try to reactivate through one election bill to at least in this part of it to try to provide some, conditionally speaking, independence and try to depolitize the electoral committee, which is the last one in that chain, but the first in that one, some area where malversions are present, I'm not saying there are no higher levels in the hierarchy of election committees, but there are a lot of participants and they can do a lot of bad things, and here I can say a lot of good if this story about election committees is depolitized and we bring it into this relationship in some way independence during election day. No more time, thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26153	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 20th item of the agenda, Ad. 20. Recommendations for reforming the energy sector – Proposers: MPs Momčilo Novaković, Hanka Vajzović, Saša Magazinović, Predrag Kožul, Mirsad Isaković, Lazar Prodanović and jasmin Emrić, material number: 01-28-1300/18, since 29.05.2018. 39 The extended House College decided to place this item in the agenda of today's session. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. This concludes the session. Is 15 minutes break enough? _________(?) It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26156	At 13:10, say...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26157	So at 13:10 a.m. [[PAUZA]] Please be seated in your seats to prepare for the vote. We're starting the voting process. Let's go to point one. – The adoption of the Book of Commons from the 61st session of the Parlame National Assembly of BiH. We're voting on the adoption of the record from the 61st session of the House. For 35, no, abstention 2. There's a general and entity majority. The record's been adopted. Point 5. – Statement of the House of Representatives to establish a new deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Exchange of Us and the Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of BiH – pre-leader: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-697/18, since 07.03.2018 (second reading). We are voting on setting a new deadline for the Constitutional Commission of 20 days to deliver the report. For 23, there are no, abstentions 14. There's a general and entity majority. The new deadline has been adopted. Point 6. – Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on a draft law on the BiH Higher Education Framework Law – 40 Proposer: MEP Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1-762/18, since 1603.2018 (the law in first reading). We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. For 17, against 12, abstention 8. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. We don't have the conditions for alignment.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26160	Yes, the law has been denied. Moving to point 7. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MEP Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalalica, No: 01- 02-1-1189/18, since 15.05.2018 (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. For 26, v. 2, abstention 9. There's a general and entity majority. The law in the first reading passed. Point 8. – Report by the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, broj: 01,02-06-1004/18, from 18.04.2018 and number: 01-50-1-1021/18, since 24.04.2018. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26161	Look what's up with my colleague Vajzović with the technique. HANKA
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26162	So first we vote on the proposal to conclude Senad Šepić. Is there any need for me to read? SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26163	There's no ba, we know everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26164	There isn't. You're welcome to vote. For 19, versus 13, abstention 5. There's a general and entity majority. The conclusion has been adopted. We are going to vote on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament of Nermine Kapetanović. Is there any need for me to read? SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26165	There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26166	There isn't. Join the vote. For 20, against 12, abstention 5. There's a general and entity majority. And this conclusion has passed. So we're going to point 9. – Report on the work of the Management Board of the Export and Credit Agency of BiH for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-874/18, dated 03.04.2018. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Zaim Backović. For 11, versus 17. There's no general majority. The conclusion wasn't adopted. We vote on the adoption of the Report of the Management Board of the Agency for 2017. In 10, against 25. There's no general majority. It's not adopted. We are now voting on the adoption of the Agency's business plan for 2018. For 11, versus 17. There's no general majority. It's not adopted. Let's go to point 10. – The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the preliminary conclusion of MP Amir Fazlić, which reads: "The House of Representatives' House of Representatives of BiH proposes to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that the Law amending us and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure – Proposer of MP Amir Fazlić (Law No: 01-02-1-668/18, since 05.03.2018), consider the urgent legislative procedure", act No: 01-02-1-668/18, since 18.05.2018. We're voting in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. For 22, against 10, abstentions 5. There's a general and entity majority. It's a conclusion. Point 11. – Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency for the period 01 01 – 31.12.2017, issue: 05/8-04-785/18, since 20.03.2018. We vote on Mensure Beganović's Opinion. For 21 versus 5, abstention 11. There's a general and entity majority. The conclusion has been adopted. We're voting now on the adoption of the report. For 17, against 3 abstentions 17. There is no entity majority from Republika Srpska. There are no conditions for a positional alignment, delayed until the next session. Point 12. – Second report on monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015. – 2019 and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015 — 2019, for p riod May 2015. – December 2017 – applicant: Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination against Corruption, issue: 05/8 -04-601/18, from 26.02.2018. We're voting for adoption of the report. 42 For 17, v. 1, abstention 19. There is a general majority, there is no entity in Republika Srpska. It is postponed for the next session of voting in the second round. Point 13. – Report on the implementation of the laws of the Central Election Commission of BiH in 2017 – submiter: Central Election Commission BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-1190/18, since 15.05.2018. We are voting on Zaim Backović's proposal for a conclusion. For 18, against 11, abstention 8. There's a general and entity majority. The conclusion has been adopted. We are now voting again on the second one before MP Zaim Backović's conclusion. For 18, v. 9, abstention 10. There's a general and entity majority. The conclusion has been adopted. Now we're voting on receiving knowledge of the report. For 20, v. 9, abstention 8. There is no entity majority in the Federation. There are no conditions for agreeing on the spot, a vote for the next session is postponed. Point 14. – Additional information on the implementation of the conclusions from the 45th session of the Parlame House of Representatives of the Croatian National Assembly, material of the BiH Direct Taxation Authority, issue: 01/3-50-3-21/17, v za: 01-50-1-15-45/17, since 19.03.2018. We're voting on receiving information. For 14, v. 1, abstention 22. The general majority exists, the entity majority does not exist in Republika Srpska. There are no conditions for alignment, it's left for the next session. Point 15. – Information on the project PRO-Future and Peace Platforms – applicant: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02-37-1671/17, from 11.07.2017 (scheduled statement on 61st of the House, held on 17.05.2018). We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Staša Košarac's MP. For 12, against 23, abstention 2. There's no general majority. The conclusion wasn't adopted. We are voting on Parliamentarian Nikola Lovrinović's proposal. For 4, versus 29, abstentions four. There's no general majority. It's not his conclusion. Now we're voting on the adoption of the Peace Platform. For 30, against 5, abstention 2. There's a general and entity majority. The peace platform has been adopted. 43 Let's go to point 16. – Information on the implementation of the Emergency Meals Plan and the implementation of activities related to the migrant crisis – pre-declarators: Borjana Krišto, Nikola Lovrinović and Predrag Kožul, issue: 01-50-1115/18, since 30.05.2018. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusions of MPs Borjana Krišto, Nikola Lovrinović and Predrag Kožul. For 15, versus 17. There's no general majority. The conclusions weren't adopted. We are now voting on before the conclusion of Parliamentarian Senad Šepić. For 19, v. 7, abstention 11. There's a general and entity majority. The conclusions of Senad Šepić's MPs have been adopted. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Mr Momčilo Novaković's MP. For 15, versus 10, abstentioned 12. There's a general and entity majority. We adopted the conclusions of Mr. Momčilo Novaković. We're voting on the prenup of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil's letter. For... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We have a request for a repeat vote. Please repeat your vote on the conclusions of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. For 22, against six, abstention nine. There's a general and entity majority. The conclusions of Maya Maja-Gasal-Vražalica's letter have been adopted. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusions of MP Mirsad Đonlagić. For 14, versus 14. There's no general majority. The conclusions weren't adopted. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusions of MP Jas mina Emrić. For 20, v. 5, abstention 12. There is no entity majority from Republika Srpska. There are no conditions for voting now, delaying for the next session. Moving to point 17. – Report on the reasons for not receiving the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security of BiH in full membership of the European Organisation for the Ensuring of Quality in Higher Education (ENQA), with a concrete proposal for action to eliminate observed weaknesses – applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH (realization of the Salko Sokolović parliamentary initiative, adopted at the 55th session of the House of Representatives held on 21.12.2017, 17.01.2018), act No: 01-50-1-2527-1/17, since 30.03.2018. We are voting on proposal for the conclusion of MP Salke Sokolović. For 17, v. 9, abstention 11. 44 There is no entity majority. Second round of voting at the next session. We're voting now on the adoption of the report. For 10, v. 19, abstention 8. There's no general majority. The report wasn't adopted. So we put the dots together: 18. – Information on the current position, assessment of the readiness and ability of the Central Election Commission of BiH (CIKBiH) to organise and conduct fair elections in October 2018 – Proposers: MEPs Senad Šepić, Hanka Vajzović, Jas min Emrić and Zaim Backović (number: 01-50-1997/18, since 20.04.2018).). 19. – Discussion on the work, activities and procedures of the CEC of BiH in the light of the upcoming general elections and the need to be organised in a fair and fair atmosphere – Proposers: MPs Damir Arnaut and Saša Magazinović (number:01 -50-1-999/18, since 20.04.2018).). We are voting on the proposal for the conclusions of Senad Šepić. ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26171	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-05-0.u26172	We repeat the vote on the conclusions of Aleksandra Pandurević. For 21, against 14, abstention 2. There's a general and entity majority. The conclusions have been adopted. We are voting on a preliminary conclusion on the formation of the Ad hoc Commission for the Monitoring of General Elections in 2018, Proposer of Parliament Aleksandra Pandurević. For 18, v. 18. There's no general majority. The conclusion wasn't adopted. Now we're voting on the proposal... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We repeat the vote. For 17, v. 18. There's no general majority. The conclusion wasn't adopted. We are now voting on the conclusion of Parliamentarian Damir Bećirović. For 10, against 23. There's no general majority. The conclusion wasn't adopted. Let's go to point 20. – Recommendations for the reform of the energy sector – Proposers: MPs Momčilo Novaković, Hanka Vajzović, Saša Magazinović, Predrag Kožul, Mirsad Isaković, Lazar Prodanović and Jas min Emrić, material number: 01-28-1300/18, of 29.05.2018. We vote on the adoption of the Recommendation. For 32, v. 4, abstention 1. There's a general and entity majority. We've adopted the recommendations. This concludes the 62nd session of the House of Representatives. 46 Session completed at 13:55 p.m.
