ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24558	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats to begin work. I am opening the 60th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests and before the start of the work, I would like to thank the current chairman, Mrs Borjana Krišto, for the successful chairmanship of the meetings and the House of Representatives in her term of office. I hope that this mandate of the presidency, when I am chairman, will end up in a tolerated and good atmosphere as it was in the majority of the session of this BiH Parliament. From the cabinet of the chairmanial council of ministers, Denis Zvizdić, we have been informed that the chairman will not attend today's session, from BiH Civilian Minister Osmanović Adil's Office, we have been informed that the minister is unable to attend today's session, and his deputy, Goran Ćosić, will attend instead. Also, Communication and Transport Minister Ismir Jusko is unable to attend today's session. The session's leave was justified by MPs Monika Tomić and Maja Gasal-Vražalica, the delay announced by MP Borislav Bojić. According to the Office, 34 MPs attend the session. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are lined up according to the order of arrival, and the messengers will present them in that order. The first question is Madame, MP Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24559	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wish you a successful and happy presidency. Honorable gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen and representatives of the Council of Ministers. My question is at... a session asked by the Honorable Minister, Mr. Šarović. Since Mr. Šarović was not at that session, I am renewing the issue – When will the Council of Ministers introduce a fee for the ban on the export of troops, heat and cut-off construction of the leaves? In a country rich in forests, Bosnian-Herzegovina producers are struggling in their country to get raw materials and thus to get cheaper production and become more competitive on the foreign market. Therefore, imports of Bosnian herbic raw materials from the outside, which accumulates a significant process of production. The Council of Ministers' engagement in terms of making such a decision would help two Bosnian-Herzegovina furniture producers in this very affirmative economic branch, which can also be one of the strategic branches for Bosnia and Herzegovina, to continue their work without great difficulty. Then, they increase exports, which is very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina, increase the number of employees, which is our priority target and task of this call and the Council of Ministers and Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and affirm Bosnia and Herzegovina's wood industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24560	Thank you. Minister Šarović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24561	Thank you. I'm taking the opportunity to greet you all. Since I only have two minutes' written answer I have longer prepared, you will receive it, the honourable letters. Perhaps just to say briefly that Bosnia and Herzegovina's wood sector participates with 3% in the gross domestic product and that it is one of the strategic branches in Bosnia and Herzegovina that employs more than 30,000 workers, and that, perhaps this important fact, that the wood sector in 2017 achieved exports of 1,300,000 KM and accounts for over 12% of Bosnia and Herzegovina's total exports, and this is practically an increase of nearly 110 million KM compared to 2016, and the surplus is 975,000 KM when imports, import components are rejected, but it is important to note that 42% of exports are made by logs, heated wood and cut construction, i.e. over 550,000 and you probably meant that when you asked this question. It is quite clear, and this is the view of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, that certain measures need to be taken to ensure sufficient raw materials for furniture producers, meaning, for larger stages, stages of processing, which are otherwise export-oriented, completely export-oriented and we win the most prestigious prizes such as the prestigious fair in Cologne and elsewhere. It should also be said that the lack of raw materials is one of the key problems and slows down investment in this sector. Certain investors They hesitate to invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina precisely because no one can guarantee enough raw materials for their production. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It is quite clear, then, that these measures should be imposed by the competent authorities, but one of the possible measures can be, as well as administrative measures, i.e. the introduction of taxes, but other than individual initiatives and, I would say, media speculation at the Ministry Not one request has arrived today for, I would say, a joint action. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Since this jurisdiction is divided and the jurisdiction and entity, canton, to bring one measure, is necessary for it to come from those in charge to, perhaps, resolve this issue at a state level, but you will get a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24562	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24563	Dear Minister Šarović, deeply esteeming everything you have done in your portfolio in this term, showing you deep respect for your work done, as a person who believes in what you are doing, appreciating the results of your work, I ask you to receive a delegation of Bosnian-Herzegovian producers, representatives, therefore, chairman of both entities. There are no entity borders, this is Bosnia and Herzegovina's state interest. I am aware of the fact that you have achieved excellent results in other fields that are tied from this portfolio and I would be very, immensely happy to find satisfaction in finding a final solution to the welfare of the wood industry, the employment of new workers and the affirmation of Bosnian Herzegovina producers. You understand this, please, as my request and as my representative initiative, and I ask you to receive a delegation and take the necessary steps to affirm the final Bosnian Herzegovina wood industry and create an environment that enables our furniture manufacturers to penetrate world markets easier and to cheape the production process themselves. I sincerely thank you and I still congratulate you on all the results so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24564	Thank you. Ambassador jasmin Emrić, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24565	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I asked the oral question last time to the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport, which concerned paying for the ECO test service or testing of exhaust gas emissions during the technical examination and registration of the vehicle. Since he was not a representative of the Ministry, and I did not get an answer, so I repeat the same question, which is – Is there a legal collection of the EKO test service of 22, 32 and 36 KM in the field of the Federation of BiH during the technical examination of the vehicle, and if such payment is illegal who is responsible for the same and what is the Ministry intending to undertake to stop and initiate the procedure of responsibility before the BiH authorities? On the basis of the questions raised in oral form at the beginning of last month, contributions were also made to the media with statements from representatives of the competent authorities and institutions which confirmed that in the field of the Federation of BiH, EKO test services are paid at 22, 32 or 36 KM, depending on the type of engine of the vehicle, which is contrary to the State Regulation on technical checks of the vehicle where it is prescribed that an ECO test in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area is paid at 5 KM. It is estimated that the authorities in the Federation of BiH have illegally charged 19,400,000 KM from our citizens, and 90% of these funds belong to technical inspection stations, 8% to professional institutions, and budgets from the Federation and canton by 1%. Since I was interested in this topic, I have made an insight into the existing legislation and concluded that the Regulation on the test of exhaust gas of motor vehicles or of the ECO test in vehicles brought by the Federal Transport and Communication Minister where these prices for the ECO test service are set at 22, 32 and 36 KM with VAT contrary to the Regulation on vehicle technical checks changes and additions to that Regulation by the Minister of Communication and Transport of Bosnia and Herzegovina where it is determined that the technical examination service for the test of exhaust gas emissions or the ECO test in Bosnia and Herzegovina is 5 KM without VAT. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I therefore ask the Ministry to respond and explain why such a state of affairs has arisen, and how it will also be resolved for the legitimate collection of the EKO test services in the whole country, as prescribed by the state regulations. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24566	Thank you. Deputy Minister, Mr. Dalipagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24567	Dear President, members of the College, distinguished MPs, who come from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all together. At this point, I can only first tell Mr. Representative, with respect, that this is a little more complex. I'll answer something briefly, and we can send in writing a broader explanation. So, according to the Law on Road Safety in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the State Ministry is "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 6/06 in charge of the adoption of the Regulation on Technical Checks of the Vehicle, the Official Messenger of BiH, No. 13/07 it is prescribed that the competent authorities of the entities and the Discrimination of Brcko were obliged to comply with all their legal and sublegal acts and issues under their jurisdiction with this Act. This Regulation lays down the content and manner of carrying out technical examinations and prescribed conditions that must satisfy the organisation carrying out technical tests of the vehicle. According to the provisions of this Regulation, therefore, a uniform procedure for conducting a technical examination of a vehicle throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina is prescribed. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. These authorities shall also issue approvals for the operation of the vehicle's technical inspection cells and shall take note of the operation of these cells. In accordance with this Regulation, Annex 10 is defined as the Price list of vehicle technical inspection services which prescribes a single price for the performance of vehicle technical inspection services. Under this price list is also the price of 5 KM to perform the ECO test on vehicles. On the other hand, the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications passed the Regulation on the test of exhaust gases, motor vehicles, the ECO test in the vehicle's technical inspection stations, "The Official Journal of the Federation of BiH", No. 102/16 at the prices referred to in the case of a recognised representative. [[the speaker is warned on time]] This was done by referring to the Law on Road Transport of the Federation of BiH, "The Official Journal of the Federation of BiH", No. 28/06. Finally, it could be said that the fundamental problem lies in the fact that then the Law on Road Transport of the Federation of BiH is not in line with the Law on Road Safety on BiH Roads. Why this is so and why this is not done should be asked about the institutions of the Federation of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24568	Thank you. Commentary, Ambassador Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24569	Well, I agree that you should ask the authorities in this country what they do when they allow such legal confusion to be introduced where it should not be so at all and that it is unlawfully charged by citizens with a large amount of funds then shared by cells for technical examination. Well, I'm asking a question, maybe it's all meant to be that way. If I have a state code, then it's an obligation to comply with that state code. That thing's completely clear. So why don't we reach out to the instruments that allow us to force someone to do it? Is it possible to allow any level of government to do as he 5 intends that it should and should ignore the existence of a state regulation? That's why I'm asking this question, how are we gonna do it? A legal state? [[the speaker is warned on time]] The citizens ask this question to us, the MPs, who sit here and ask us for an explanation of why you don't advocate upstairs to correct these things and to get to the truth how, how they get to them legal differences. How can there be a lower-level act of government contrary to a higher-level act of government, but especially where funds from the pockets of our citizens are affected, and these are not small funds In this socially sensitive situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, every KM is very important for all citizens in this country. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So I ask that you deliver it to me in writing and answer the question completely, whether responsibility can be determined and how to introduce order, not only in this particular case, but also in many others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24570	Thank you. Ambassador Jovo Vukovljak, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24571	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome you to the College, welcome fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, means of information and all present in the hall. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, the chairman, and I see him gone, but I will read him. The question is – What activities has the Council of Ministers of BiH taken with the aim of preparing and proposing the law on restitution, since this activity is yet foreseen by the Council of Ministers Decision of BiH of 29.06.2004 and has not yet been implemented? I am also asking for an answer to the question – What activities will be taken in the next period and when can be expected to be referred to the draft law in the parliamentary procedure, and whether the relevant associations of citizens from both entities were represented in the bodies in charge of the making of the law on restitution, and if the associations were not represented whether representatives of the association from Republika Srpska are to have the right to participate in the working bodies for the making of that law? Since there is no Mr. Zvizdić, I ask if there are any members of the Council of Ministers to say, and I note that this law is in Republika Srpska '96. In 2000, Mr. Petrić suspended him. In Semberia, the country was returned, about 40% to 50% of the people who were in '45. And '48. the year was taken away from both movable and immovable property. Since we want to be members of the European Union for now as a candidate... all the countries in the environment have passed this law, both Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, and Montenegro, and Hungary, and the Czech Republic, and Slovakia, this is followed by Bosnia and Herzegovina in the coming period I, if there isn't, the chairperson in writing would like to answer this question. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24572	Thank you. Does anyone have a prepared answer? If not, then we'll get an answer in writing, if I understand the MP. Okay. Next question, MP Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24573	Mr. Chairman, I welcome you, College, all present in this room. My question has been addressed to the Minister of Transport and Communications, but I see that there is a deputy, I hope he will be able to answer about it. It is that about three months ago, the German Constitutional Court approved the possibility that the cities in Germany have the right to restrict the entry of certain categories of diesel vehicles. This is a statement, or decision, that did not cause such a violent reaction in the first wave, but when it came to the analysis of the decision, it is evident that 12 million cars in Germany do not meet that standard, which means that Germany will also be "forced" to take these cars out of Germany. So what's wrong with Germany is, say, for Bosnia and Herzegovina and other countries. What other countries have done, and they have already taken some steps and steps on this issue, and I am now interested – Does Bosnia and Herzegovina intend to take a position on some of the measures, has no one announced in Bosnia and Herzegovina about the possibility of banning the use of motor vehicles using diesel fuel categories up to five? I think that category, that group of vehicles is dominant in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to cars, personal cars, but in any case, busses and trucks should be taken into account and that can be an extremely serious problem. In this sense, here, I ask the question of the Ministry of Transport and Communications – Is it thought about, have measures been taken, are these activities being monitored and in what sense do they intend to act to prevent the unpleasant situations that may arise? Despite the fact that certain German officials in the last seven to ten days have in fact indicated some possibilities of correction or balance, the application of a balanced decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24574	Thank you. Deputy Minister, Mr. Dalipagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24575	I'd like to answer Mr. Đonlagić the following way. Most countries provided for 2040 in their strategic documents as a time limit by which the use of cars powered by internal combustion engines will be expelled or banned. Germany plans to reduce vehicles that use diesel as fuel by 2030, and certain cities have announced a ban or restriction on the use of vehicles that use diesel as fuel. This issue of demands, the City of Stuttgart first in Germany has issued a ban on the use of diesel fuel. However, these highly developed countries too have some problems and concerns about it. It has not yet been announced how and how this ban is intended to be implemented. Will there be exceptions, say, to the diesel of the EKO 6, what about cargo vehicles and buses, how much this will cost the citizens and others. The mayors of Paris, Madrid, Mexico City and Athens announced a ban on the use of diesel vehicles from downtown until 2025. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, imports of second-hand passenger cars are prescribed a minimum standard that the vehicle must meet, i.e. ECO 4. It shall apply from 1 April 2016 and this category shall include vehicles registered in the European Union after 01.01.2006. For the importing of these vehicles, the stardardard ECO 6. The average age of the rolling stock in Bosnia and Herzegovina is above average, although on the other hand the number of inhabitants per vehicle below average. This is influenced primarily by the standard of population and purchasing power in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina has committed, among other measures, through the 2016 to 2030 Framework Strategy to create all necessary conditions for stimulating imports of new and more organic vehicles by 2025. In case of 7 any major changes in the consumer vehicle market in Bosnia and Herzegovina, action can be taken to protect the market from such side effects. The ministry of communication and transport of BiH does not expect such bans to go into effect over the next few years, to a greater extent, violate the situation. Sure Eco 4 Standard is a minimum below which a second-hand vehicle cannot be introduced today in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in the next period, in accordance with further improvement, eco 5 standards can also be expected, as minimum conditions, as an increase in ECO standards is the best way to protect against imports of these older vehicles. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24576	Thank you. Mr. Đonlagić, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24577	I thank you for your reply, and I would ask if I could get this answer in writing, especially because, to tell you the truth, there is no exact position of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina anywhere in the media when it comes to this problem. I would like this to be published in public, that the public knows exactly that they have taken certain measures, that they are legally envisaged which vehicles can be imported and in what way and that both Bosnia and Herzegovina is considering the problem. In the press, and the electoral media, I couldn't find anything more serious about this matter in the last month, and that is the position of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24578	Thank you. The Messenger Maja Gasal-The Vražalica is not present. The next Staša Košarac MP, question.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24579	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to welcome my colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. I had the ambition to ask the question of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Denis Zvizdić, but given the fact that he is not present I appreciate that and I want to believe that an adequate answer could also be given by Minister Šarović, since he has the role of deputy vice-presidential Council of Ministers and given the fact that the management of the municipality of Srebrenica and Mr Šarović addressed him with a letter, i.e. with an emergency. The question is – When will the Council of Ministers of BiH give the Municipality of Srebrenica the funds of two million marks promised by the Council of Ministers in 2015 at an Investment and Development Conference held in Srebrenica? In 2015, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers who participated in the Srebrenica Investment and Development Conference pledged to invest two million marks in development projects of the Srebrenica municipality. On several occasions during a meeting with representatives of the Srebrenica municipality, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers confirmed that the promised funds would be made available, which has not been done so far. During last year, representatives of the municipality of Srebrenica delivered to the Chamber of Chairman Zvizdić agreed projects and elaborates concerning 8 infrastructures, as well as the rehabilitation and construction of roads on the territory of the municipality of Srebrenica, as well as the construction of facades on residential buildings and production halls for the purpose of opening jobs. After that, in December and January of this year, the cabinets of BiH Council of Ministers Denis Zvizdić and his deputy, Mirko Šarović, were sent to the office of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, which was also unresponsive. Given the fact that the representatives of the Government of Republika Srpska, the Government of the Federation of BiH and the Government of Serbia fulfilled the promises made at the mentioned Srebrenica Investment and Development Conference in their investments in this municipality, I ask the Council of Ministers, the Chairman and his deputy – why did the Council of Ministers fail to keep its promise and when will the Srebrenica municipality be granted funds in the amount of two million marks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24580	Thank you. Deputy Chairman, Mr. Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24581	Thank you. I believe the chairman will also deliver a written reply. In order to get any, even a brief answer about this question, I would like to say that in the last year at least twice I received and spoke to the head of the Srebrenica municipality, but we also had countless other oral and telephone communications on this issue. I would like to say that there is no documented decision or act on two million in the Council of Ministers' documentation, but it is true that the Council of Ministers delegation participated in this conference, the donor conference, and as far as I know, the Council of Ministers has declared that it wants to support the restoration of this important municipality in Republika Srpska. For my part, in contact with the Srebrenica municipality, I insisted that they deliver a list of projects or at least a few projects that would be common, given the specific situation in the Srebrenica municipalities and sensitivity, it is necessary that the local community identify which is the project. As far as I know, the list was presented to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers with the intention to define in the near future on this matter, to what extent, that will be the decision of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24582	Thank you. Commentary, Mr. Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24583	I think there are a lot of elements in the answer that we would or might be able to delve into, but what is very important is that the management of the Srebrenica municipality delivered a recapitulation of some 28 important projects for the Srebrenica municipality. I think that even at the time of the 2018 budget, they spoke to the Council of Ministers on time so that they could plan the budget for this year. Given the fact that the dedicated management of the Srebrenica municipality is working on the life and development plans of the Srebrenica municipality, I ask that the Council of Ministers make a decision as soon as possible so that, on the basis of the planned and dynamic activities planned by the management of the Srebrenica municipality, they can enter the stage of implementation of these, for the Municipality of Srebrenica, important 28 infrastructure projects. 9 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24584	Thank you. Next question, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24585	Dear chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. My question is about blocking the election of directors and deputy directors of police agencies to which the mandate ended. So, the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly, as most probably know, means the Independent Committee expired on 17.03.2018. The current Independent Committee has given itself the right to continue to work although it is completely unclear whether it can make decisions on the resolution and appointment of new police agency managers. The responsibility for this situation is borne by the House of Representatives, because the House of Peoples has completed its work on this activity. So it's obviously some kind of human resources that put me in some political parties that can't get this job done. The Council of Ministers lists candidates for new directors and deputy directors of police agencies, but the Council of Ministers does not finish its job either. This means that since 17.04, at the head of the Police Body Coordination Directorate, we will have a director in the technical mandate and without any deputy director, and the Law states that the Director and two Vice-Presidents are in charge of the Directorate. Also, in addition to this, a technical mandate included the Director of the Border Police, as it also expired. My question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers – When will the procedure for the appointment of police agency managers expire and what is the reason why this job has not been completed so far? So, since there is no Council of Ministers chairman, I ask that I be provided with a written reply to this topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24586	All right, thanks. Next question, MP Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24587	I thank the chairman. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resolute Ministry of Finance, which refers to the following. Last year is a year which is characterised by law, a set of excise duty laws that the Council of Ministers has referred to this Parliament five times, which by emergency procedure, following a shortened procedure. This Law was passed, entered into force on 1 February, and we, uh, have no information, although we said when we adopted the Law that this should be transparent and that the collection of income and distribution of these revenues should be notified to Parliament, i.e. it has information on the collection of these funds. My question is: How much of the funds have been raised at a separate party, so at the Central Bank, has the distribution of these funds been made, and if it is not? And, here, I expect an answer to that and, of course, it would be very important for the sake of transparency to see how much funds came from Republika Srpska and how much from the Federation. 10 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24588	Thank you. Deputy Chairman, Mr. Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24589	Hello, everyone, with a desire for successful work. The answer to the honourable representative Isaković who asked a correct question and it is good that I have the opportunity to give the answer. Therefore, according to the adopted laws, the distribution of toll revenue of 0.25 marks for the construction of highways and the construction and reconstruction of other roads, which are based on a specific sub-account at the Central Bank, is carried out by means of a methodology prescribed by the Management Board of the Impaired Taxation Administration. At the next session scheduled for 25.04, my proposal will discuss the proposal for a temporary distribution of revenue collected from tolls of 0.25 marks for the construction of highways and construction and reconstruction of other roads. The accumulated balance on the sub-account for 0.25 toll marks is at the end of next week, to say, is 53.4 million marks, the accumulated balance on the sub-account by 0.00% of the toll and toll according to the old law is 11.3 million marks and means the total accumulated balance with Friday on the sub-account is 64.7 million marks. These resources cannot be allocated to users until the Management Board adopts a specific decision on the allocation of funds from specific tolls. The time when the Management Board adopts that decision and when it is delivered to the Directorate for indirect taxation on the execution of funds will be allocated to the users by the coefficients to be an integral part of that decision. The decision on the Management Board shall be adopted by consensus. If there is no consensus, he adopts a simple majority that includes the votes of members of the Management Board, the finance minister and the BiH Treasury, the votes of Republika Srpska and the Federation finance ministers. The Management Board held its last session, held on 22.03, for the second time consider the information on the distribution of toll revenue for the construction of highways as well as the proposal for a decision submitted by the Impaired Taxation Administration. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The debate was held and no agreement was reached, the decision in question was not adopted because not all votes by finance ministers were cast. It was not even adopted as a temporary decision, which was eight years of practice since 2009. And in order not to have any doubts, I'll read a brief proposal for a decision. The proposal for a decision was that from the total revenue of 10%, the total amount of funds collected remains in the sub-account of the Central Bank and it is used to settle the income until the final coefficients are adopted. The remaining 90% is shared by users and entities and Brcko District, so that 59% belongs to the Federation, 39% to the Republika Srpska and 2% to the Brcko District. It's these 10% that are being held back and remain in the sub-account that are intended and serve as final alignment. Here, I gave, I mean, everything that the honourable representative asked for, and perfectly normal in table forms and the rest can get.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24590	Thank you. poslanik Isaković, comment on the response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24591	Thank you. The minister is indeed one of the people who is here in this House constantly present and one of the people who always answers questions. However, whether I am satisfied with the answer, of course I am not satisfied for the simple reason that we were very quick. I told him that these acts came here by emergency procedure and by a shortened procedure, but when the distribution of public revenues to the Council of Ministers was unable to distribute. Since it has not been able to get the green light five times, it is not even able to distribute these revenues. What's worrying about me is that the construction season is in progress, that 1/3 of the business year has already gone, and we haven't even done the distribution, and now we're not going to be doing it until the sixth month, or half of the year, this one, we're not going to do it. So it's not going to work on highways, roads, etc., why they're not going to start, but we're making money neatly. What I find very interesting is that the problem is far deeper in nature, because the distribution of public income here is done precisely by the Law on the distribution of public incomes which is now in force when it comes to excise duties, and here it is about the tolls and it should be distributed as much as someone, if, invested there. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So I asked what the revenues were, and I didn't get the information, so I'm going to ask the minister to answer this, get an answer in writing, and, of course, with the addition I asked for in the explanation, so how much income from Republika Srpska, as much as from the Federation, because that's why Get. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And that would be one complete piece of information, but I think, and this has confirmed that the problem is a much deeper nature and that this is not going to end so easily. Thank you very much. I pray once more in writing, because it's very important.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24592	Thank you. Ambassador Damir Arnaut, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24593	Thank you. I announced the issue to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, given that he is not here, this one, and last time he refused to answer my question, he gave Minister Bevanda the answer, in any case, maybe Minister Bevanda will give the answer today, too. So my question is very simple – the status of the preparation of the answers and the requested materials, I underline and the requested material from my parliamentary question since 28.07.2017. So, then, I, uh, Mr. Bevanda was familiar with this, asked for stenograms, minutes, conclusions, drafts and what was adopted at the Council of Ministers' meeting on the compensation of the Board of Directors for indirect taxation. I, although Minister Bevanda said in last session of Parliament, which took place more than a month ago, that I would get it in the next two or three days, I still got nothing. So I really insist on stenograms, conclusions, all the materials that concern this point from that Council of Ministers session. And I remind you that my question was offered by the anonymous letter I received from, the concerned workers in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions were signed. And I'm also interested in whether, uh, now all this waiting may have been caused and by a judicial verdict that confirmed that Kozadra is, one of the members has launched a dispute because there is no fee or less compensation, and the BiH Court of Justice has said that the law is very clear and that there is no right to compensation as long as such a law is in force, this one, or that there is no right to 3,200 marks as long as it was previously charged, but only on 475 marks. Anyway, it's really incomprehensible, which is why I've been waiting for these answers since 28th of July. At the last session 12 was said in two or three days, here I'm still waiting for it there's almost two or three months, so if I can just get an answer which is the status of the preparation of these materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24594	Thank you. Do we have an answer? Here, Deputy Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24595	Here, I didn't mean it, but here's to really respond to Mr. Isaković's offer of dissatisfaction with my concrete response, here's to respond to the SBB's representative. So, I'll check on why it wasn't delivered to you. A member of the Management Board of your Party who, among other things, raised a dispute against the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the director of the Management Board and myself. He's got all the paperwork and I'll check if anything from what he's attached to the court is missing to deliver to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24596	Thank you. poslanik Arnaut, comment on your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24597	I can only confirm that there are no members of the Board of Experts' party, and as far as I'm concerned, I'm not looking for documents that have been submitted to the Court, there's a court ruling, I'm looking for documentation, but I've been insisting since 28/07, from a Council of Ministers meeting where a disputed decision has been taken, that is, the conclusion. So I want to get stenograms and absolutely all the material from that session that concerns that point. The information is certainly public and incomprehensible that even the parliamentary question cannot obtain that document, although it is public documents from a public session of the Council of Ministers concerning a item of the agenda that is not under any kind, of any degree of secrecy, etc. And as far as the court rulings are concerned, this, if you want, you can give me a judicial verdict, what's a special satisfaction in that verdict is that it says that the Law that was adopted, so on my proposal, is very clear and precise and does not allow fees of more than 475 marks per month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24598	Thank you. Deputy Chairman, Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24599	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers and deputies, members of the Council of Ministers, respected associates and all respected guests at today's session of the House of Representatives. My question is, based on Article 168. The House of Representatives was announced by the minister of security, which refers to the overall security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Namely, from the information 13 requested and discussed through the committee's competent authorities, as well as a statement in the media that there is a great pressure of illegal migrants on the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, many of whom wish to use Bosnia and Herzegovina as a migrant route towards the countries of the European Union. We can also hear daily about the existence and functioning of various organisations that can have an impact on the overall security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In fact, these are all the challenges and threats that Bosnia and Herzegovina must take care of and how, in the first place. From the point of view of all this, I ask the Minister of Security to assess the situation of the overall security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the answer – What has this done specifically to protect all peoples and citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to keep the country's security situation at the highest possible level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24600	Thank you. Minister Mektić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24601	Dear Chairman, distinguished members of the House of Representatives College, MPs and MPs. This question is quite, in fact two questions or I would say, perhaps, even more because a security assessment is required, is complex, complex, and I'm not sure that I can say anything in a quality way in two minutes. If you let me, here, I can do one question and it'll take two, I need more time or I can answer you in writing so I can deliver you for the next session, but it's not possible at all in two minutes about such a complex and complex problem to say. But here, if you'll allow me, I can use these two minutes for at least one part of this question. The current assessment of the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is quite complex. Police agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina are actively and alertly monitoring all possible developments aimed at potential security threats, and are ready to respond adequately at any possible time and any possible challenge. Intelligence is actively exchanged between security agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina and appropriate preventive repressive measures are taken according to the assessment. It is also publicised, and of course there are very detailed knowledge, information, documentation available to security agencies on the activities of extremist groups on Bosnia and Herzegovina's soil. These groups, depending on the profile of action, can be divided into those promoted by extreme religious, nationalist, unitarian, separatist attitudes, and one of them expresses a willingness to violent actions. Some of these groups are ideologically related to related organisations in the Balkans and certain criminal structures in the region. Their activities range from the public appearances of individual members of these organizations using hate speech at public gathering sites or through certain internet portals and other mass media, to the printing of graphite, placement and distribution of posters of offensive extreme content, which under the cover of patriotism and similar structures express, promotion, wider, foster national, religious and racial hatred And impatience. [[the speaker is warned on time]] These organizations have developed a methodology that promotes extremism aimed at the most vulnerable categories in society – the return, refugee population, the minority population of other religious groups in areas where the majority population is the one identified as followers of the mentioned extremist and... as in LGBT 14 populations. [[the speaker is warned on time]] They have previously used violent extremism in attacks on objects of religious importance, gravestones as well as on believers of other religions... while performing religious rituals in these objects. Their goal is to intimidate and spread fear among the target groups and attack... in the Bosnian Herzegovina society.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24602	Minister, time is up, this is a very important topic, and I'm sure there's a lot to say, but according to our Rules of Procedure, the time for your exposure is up. I assume you'll also deliver in writing what you've...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24603	I will, I will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24604	Commentary, Deputy Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24605	First of all, thank the Minister for trying, and I agree with him in the part where, because we didn't actually get the answer, I agree that this is both a significant question and a complex one to answer. I fully support that in the next few days you provide me with a written report that I want to share with this House, but I want that report to be supported by what you just said. To answer, you must have the views of all agencies and all those who, in accordance with the legal powers, participate in, I would say, carrying out the task from their jurisdiction to ensure that security in Bosnia and Herzegovina is truly at the highest level. Thank you very much, and I expect a written reply.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24606	Thank you. Ambassador Salko Sokolović, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24607	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the area is air traffic control. At the 9th session of June 2016, the BiH Council of Ministers took note of the conclusions adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives at the 11th session of the House and in charge of the Ministry of Transport and Communications for the realisation of them. The House's conclusions require, among other things, the development of an action plan for the process of taking over and establishing air traffic control in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with clearly established operators of activities and deadlines. At its 34th session, held on 9 December 2015, the Council of Ministers discussed and adopted the Information, Ministry, on the implementation of the Strategy for the Development of the Airspace Management System in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This led to a conclusion on the formation of a new Project Committee for the Implementation of Phase II Air Traffic Project in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the ministry is in charge of preparing the decision. The same session concluded that the newly appointed Project Committee will also present to the Council of Ministers for approval within 30 days a proposal for an action plan for the realisation of Phase II Air Traffic Management Project in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Question – Given that on 13 May 2018 there will be three full years since the adoption of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives' conclusion, 15 means this House, I ask the representatives of the Ministry or the Minister of Transport and Communications, is the action plan for the process of taking over and establishing air traffic control in Bosnia and Herzegovina drawn up and whether interstate agreements and adopted plans for taking over the upper part of air traffic in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been signed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24608	Thank you. Deputy Minister, Mr. Dalipagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24609	Thank you, President. I would like to answer the following to the Honorable Representative Sokolović. With the conclusion of the BiH Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Communications and Transport is tasked to prepare and submit to the Council of Ministers a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a Project Committee for the Construction and Implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of Phase II Air Transport Project, and the Agency for the provision of services in the air navigation of Bosnia and Herzegovina BHANSA At the 137th session of the Council of Ministers of BiH, held on 28.03.2018, on a proposal from the Ministry of Communications and Transport, a report on the implementation of the Strategy for Air Traffic Management of BiH Phase I was adopted, and the conditions for the Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of a Project Committee on the Implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina air traffic management project was submitted to the Council of Ministers for consideration and adoption. The ministry, according to the BiH Council of Ministers' Rules of Procedure, delivered this proposal on 27.03.2018 to the competent institutions, and received positive opinions from the BiH Office of Law and the BiH Ministry of Justice, and the opinion of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury is expected, after which the proposal for a decision will be submitted to the BiH Council of Ministers for adoption. Proposal for an agreement on the delegation of responsibilities for the provision of air services, i.e. The agreement on the delegation of responsibilities for the provision of air services between the Council of the Mintarians of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Government of Montenegro, and the Republic of Croatia was delivered to the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH for consideration on 12.06.2017. At the 106th session of the BiH Council of Ministers, since 22.06.2017, additional consultations were requested, and the agreements were again in draft agenda of the 123rd session held on 04.12.2017, but were not discussed. The ministry has worked hard to include the agreements in question on the agenda of the Council of Ministers and we expect them to be discussed at one of the next Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24610	Thank you. Commentary, Ambassador sokolov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24611	Here, I thank the Deputy Minister, although here I have no opportunity to speak to the minister, because he is ultimately responsible for this question in some of these regular discussions. Obviously something is being done, but it's obviously a period of great delay, here, I pointed out here that on May 13, 2018, it's three years since the initiative itself was launched. However, when we go back, which is why this is important, this, someone's gonna say 16 Salko will always kick around air space control, right, under signs of beating, but it's over 300 million marks that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina loses annually and now times a year, right, which are behind us, which are missed is one, one huge money in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's always a problem of money shortages, and he's practically flying over our heads, and we either don't know or we don't, or we do. Some others... to pick him up. [[the speaker is warned on time]] After all, when we're gone, when our money's gone, then we remember that he's with the citizens, and then we raise the excises, we make some other necks, mostly We take money from the citizens of this country instead of helping them. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I would ask the representatives of the ministry, the Council of Ministers, not only this, because the Council of Ministers is also in the current assembly and all ministers, and no one has answered this question, uh, here is the Council of Ministers and the current Minister to speed up this procedure, so that this matter is over and that Bosnia and Herzegovina round the process when it comes to air traffic control. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24612	Thank you. poslanik Šepić, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24613	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for President Zvizdić, he is not here, but here, I suppose, he has authorised someone, therefore, especially for a question that is very current and which cannot suffer some kind of delay – What has the Council of Ministers of BiH done specifically in order to ensure a framework for the maintenance of fair and free elections in October this year, and especially bearing in mind the situation with the Central Election Commission and the cases of the disappearance of election material and work material Decision on the deployment of delegates and the completion of the House of People of the Federation of BiH Parliament, as well as the relationship to initiatives for the introduction of vote-counting scanners, and video surveillance at polling stations? So, a brief explanation: We have recently had a lot of discussions and a lot of ambiguities, public discussions being held in Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding the situation, I would say, the credibility of institutions, in this case the Central Election Commission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Some of these situations rightly question whether we have a framework to hold these fair and free elections this year. So the most responsible in this regard are the institutions, in this sense the Central Election Commission. So, it is a huge responsibility for us here, the Council of Ministers, to ensure that, and therefore, I would like to hear from the Council of Ministers, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina what they have done, especially after these last ones, I would say, an affair that has been heard and which has been related to the position of the Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24614	Thank you. The question was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Do we have an answer from the Council? 17 No. So you can either get an answer at the next session or in writing. Would you like to use the time to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24615	I said a moment ago, so it's completely incomprehensible to me that we don't have any kind of reaction. This question came up on time, you know how important this is. The fact is that in Bosnia and Herzegovina many political forces are not responsible for this being talked about in a transparent manner, so there are certain political forces who think it doesn't matter what you do, how much you're willing to do good for the people of this country, it's important that they control some processes, so they're going to re-read some of their choices, so they're going to do, uh, irregularities in election processes like we've seen before. We have an obligation, this Parliament has an obligation, therefore, to show responsibility and open this debate. I expected today that the Council of Ministers and that the people who, behold, run the executive power would have some kind of response, tell us what they've done so far in that sense, will send some message guaranteeing that some things are somehow being kept under control. But here, today, I will ask together with a group of fellow MPs that a special item of the agenda be included today, that we have some sort of debate and that we send messages from here that the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina can have some sort of guarantee, that we will be able to secure fair elections. All those who think, therefore, that with one of these kind of ignoring relationships, they're trying to steal something in the election, that they're cheating on these people in this country, let them know that this time they're really not going to get away with it. There are people in this country who will run, who will rise and tell thieves at last no. So any, any attempt to put aside a story that refers to some.../the speaker is being warned of the highs/... preparations for some manipulations of the electoral, indeed this time will not stand a chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24616	Thank you. MP Hanka Vajzović, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24617	Thank you, Your Honor. I warmly welcome all who follow the work of today's session. Before I ask the question, I would like to point out that there was actually a mistake in replacing it before the session, I gently delivered two questions, one for the oral, one for the written answer, and there was a replacement here again so that what I was expecting was not found orally, and it was not in the questions, it was related to the events in the Border Police, the actual question was about the disappearance, as it says, did I, in fact, follow the sign in the media, for the disappearance of serious amounts of ammunition and snipers, and also related to events in Republika Srpska related to weapons, but here today I'm going to ask what should have been, in fact, where the written answer was expected, concerns the Peljeski bridge. Again, without entering, as before, in a measure of fact, I was looking for the truth of what was really going on, a question was referred to the Council of Ministers and perhaps more concrete to the Ministry of Transport and Communication. It is about having one event in the Republic of Croatia about the Peljega Bridge, they continue to work, in Bosnia and Herzegovina it is said that it cannot be done. Question – What has been done so far in bilateral relations with the Republic of Croatia? What has he done towards the European Commission? Did the Council of Ministers find out what I was looking for before whether there were any problems that were up to us? Who and when could give a valid permit, was it given? How far is it to the Republic of Croatia? Are the papers, as I would say, under quotes, faked or real that were delivered to the European Commission by 18? Did we get an answer from the European Commission as things stand? Mostly in these frameworks is my question, I expect that here, from the Ministry of Transport and communication, the short answers. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24618	Thank you. Do we have an answer from the deputy minister, Mr. Dalipagić?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24619	Thank you, President. Here's what I'm gonna do about this. This question that has now been raised by a respected representative was received at the ministry during yesterday. We see that the issue consists of four sub-questions and all relate exclusively to the Council of Ministers. All sub-questions require a certain and respected representative to request some information from the Council of Ministers, which concerns international relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular with the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, and the answer to this question can only be given by the Council of Ministers, or by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. When it comes to the Ministry of Communications and Transport, I can say that in all this story about the Peljev Bridge, the Ministry played only a technical role and made no decision on the issue, as decisions on international relations are made either by Parliament, or by the Council of Ministers, or by the BiH Presidency, and by no means by the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24620	Thank you. Mrs. Vajzović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24621	Thank you very much. So I accept the situation and the condition that this really is a question, and it was an article of 170, so I expected a written answer, but here's how at the beginning, I said by mistake, it happened to be the other way around, what was supposed to be orally included in, dropped in here, and what I expected was the written answer that was included in today's session. In any case, I expect the questions are clear, almost with a "yes" "no" to be answered and I expect a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24622	Okay, thank you. You'll get a written answer. This concludes the questions of the MPs to the Council of Ministers. We're moving on to the agenda. As far as the agenda changes, I'd like to point out the following. The agenda has been downloaded: 19 Point 11. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02- 02-1-2015/17, downloaded from the agenda because the Joint Commission did not submit the report. Since the Joint Committee on Human Rights has not delivered an opinion on the agenda, the following points are also removed: point 19. Annual report on the results of the activities of the Ombudsman institution for BiH's 2017 Udjska pravo – submiter: BiH's Human Rights Institution, issue: 01,02-37-776/18, since 19.03.2018. Point 22. Information on the implementation of the Emergency Action Plan and the implementation of the activities listed in the Information on the evaluations and possibilities of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the issue of the refugee crisis in the region and the European Union and the review of the situation in connection with the Western Balkan route crisis, the material of the Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02,03-04-741/18, since 14.03.2018. Points 7 and 9 are amended which are now as follows: point 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1-647/18, from 02.03.2018, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission Point 9. Proposal for a law supplementing the Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1-762/18, since 16/03/2018, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. The following is added to the agenda: point 28. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 3 to the Funding Treaty concluded between the European Investment Bank, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 15 July 2008 in Sarajevo and 18 August 2008 in Luxembourg and the subsequent amendment to the Treaty / Vodavod and sewerage in the Federation of BiH – Fi 24.569 (the Finance Treaty), No: 01.02-05-2-925/18, since 10.04.2018. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. She's an emissary of Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24623	I thank you, Chairman. Well, here, lately, the public has been able to read a lot in the media about a 35.8-ton gap in ballots. I think that this Parliament's task, among other things, is to remove suspicion, to see if anything really happened there, whether we have surplus voting papers, who, I'm going to tell about us that we had a case in Prijedor in 2014, when a bunch of ballots were found next to a primary school, and there was nothing wrong in the polling post and ballots were filled. So, we propose today because of this item on the agenda – Information on the lack of paper for ballots. a) Conclusion on the establishment of an investigative committee of this House to determine what happened there. 20 b) Conclusion on the establishment of a temporary ad hoc commission to monitor the implementation of the general elections in 2018. Our proposal is for this ad hoc commission to be composed of representatives of all these parliamentary political parties, to monitor what the CEC is doing, to follow, if you will, and now tender, because it is really incomprehensible for me to have the same firm that gets both papers and presses and ballots year after year. Well, yeah, it's the mechanisms we have to minimise what's called an election commission. In addition, I have stored here a report from the Commission to determine the situation in the warehouse and the first and the second that is located, publicly available on the Central Election Commission's website, so here today we open this up and see how elections really should be an expression of the will of citizens, not about the one that gets hold of maybe some extra ballots and put them somewhere in some boxes. I'd like to ask these departments to copy the material, since it has quite a lot, the material is extensive.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24624	Thank you. Ambassador Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24625	Chairman, I thought I'd also come forward with one initiative, but since there will be, I suppose, at least another two initiatives in a similar direction, I'd just like to start by proposing that we try, in any case we give support to both this and other initiatives that will be to discuss the state of trust and the public and political parties in the election process. I remind you that the Informal Coalition for Fair and Fair Elections, which already has 12 political parties, has given support to today's discussion without prejudge which conclusions will be on these issues, but let's try to unite it, that we don't have a lot of points concerning the same matter rather than that of the Central Election Commission, of irregularities, no matter what anyone suggested, which segment, we're discussing under one point, and we're going to adopt what we end up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24626	Thank you. Ambassador Senad Šepić, I apologize, but in the meantime, we have a correction of the wrong alleged by Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24627	No problem...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24628	Can you wait?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24629	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24630	Here you go, Mr. Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24631	Well, here's a colleague Pandurević Pandurjevic's. So when I asked the parliamentary questions, I expected that part of the answer to what we would have already received today, here, in the broadest sense. It would be extremely responsible that the people who run this country have some kind of plan, have some information, know what we have, know where they should eventually come from. Unfortunately, there was no answer, no reaction in this first part, the chairman is not here, no one is in charge, no one has to say anything. So I support every kind of debate in this sense, uh, today, and I call on all of us sitting here to show that responsibility to find one set of measures and conclusions and to say that this process is still, as I would say, serious. I propose today that we, to include a new agenda item that will be set up just like that, which will open us, give us the opportunity to have a framework for discussion, and it bears the name – Information on the current position, assessment of the readiness and ability of the Central Election Commission to organise and conduct fair and correct elections in October 2018. There are some 10, 12 pages of material here, and I would like to ask it to be copied and shared with all MPs. Here are the most basic things that were the reasons why we have an obligation and why we need to prepare ourselves as best and as best as possible in this regard. If I didn't talk about the essence right now, I'd ask, here, for this to be copied, divided, and I'd invite my colleagues and colleagues to support a debate like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24632	Thank you. Ambassador Amir Fazlić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24633	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. My discussion on the agenda is about point 3 where I suggested one conclusion that was delivered to all of you on the benches and I would like to make a statement about it, because I have... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, if we were a little collegiate, I think we'd all hear it. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24635	Please, peace and ask the Service to step up the tone a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24636	Please, so my discussion is about the point of the 3rd agenda where I suggested one conclusion, and I would like to, since I have information that the College has different interpretations of the possibility of today's vote on this conclusion, I would like the House to declare itself on this conclusion, because indeed point 3 today is one of the essential points. My conclusion is that the House of Representatives is to propose to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act be considered by an urgent legislative procedure in the House of Peoples. I'd like to really see if this is businessly possible and if the House of Nations can come to terms with this conclusion, so point 3.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24637	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24638	My quote refers to the presentation of the esteemed colleague Magazinović. Of course, that we support everything, nor is this a sacred letter, we have only given the initial material that should produce some conclusions here and I do not think there is a dilemma that there are many people in this Parliament and many political parties whose only goal is to prevent electoral theft.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24639	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24640	Thank you, Chairman. I think we are witnessing that there are a lot of stories these days about the Electoral Law, among other things, technical changes in the control of the election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here it is very important to point out that I am convinced that a significant number of political parties want the elections to be held in the best possible way fair and highest degree of democracy, and there is no dilemma. The various media are spinning that certain political structures are for something or not, but what we are witnessing is the fact that we often discuss here in Parliament the possibility of implementing the Election Law without members of the Central Election Commission present. I believe that still the College of the House of Representatives has, I would say, the potential for security to have the presence of the Central Election Commission, its members, because here we need to conclude, discuss, without knowing the official position of the Central Election Commission. And I would like to suggest to all the promoters that, on the basis of all their initiatives that are present in their address and their views, this is concentrated on one, I would say, correct n way and that we try to do so primarily through the debate when members of the Central Election Commission are present to discuss this issue in the House of Representatives and that, based on those positions of two-way communication with the members of the Central Election Commission, we come to an adequate... and we take part in the debate and we make quality conclusions. And that is why I would like to suggest that today we are not exhausting ourselves with these initiatives at today's session, but to task the College of the House of Representatives to provide representatives of the Central Election Commission at the next session of the House of Representatives and, of course, on the basis of all of those elements spoken by 23 Magazinović and others, to discuss this at the House of Representatives meeting with members of the Central Election Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24641	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24642	Well, this is about that discussion so we don't do anything, you know. The next session is in a month, elections are scheduled in 15 days. So that's why I'm in the first part today when I expected the people of the Central Election Commission, the Council of Ministers, to tell us something in that first part of this session when we were answering oral questions, so it was known that there should be members of the Central Election Commission or of the Council of Ministers to answer that question. So today we ask for this to be delayed, and in some way something is waiting for another session is just another word – we don't want any change, we want this to stay the way it is, prepare to steal the election as much as you can, and that's that kind of approach. I ask you really to show that responsibility, if you need to take a break, call people, invite people from the Council of Ministers and the Central Election Commission and let them answer these questions, because this is a much smaller problem than could be a problem in the next period in which we will fully mistrust this system and lead to people moving. I said earlier, this time people won't stand by and watch someone steal them and cheat on them in the election. You have a situation to go to, in places across Bosnia and Herzegovina, you feel that people want to change, they want a different policy, they want a fairer policy. You have these people here who hold institutions and think it's their own private, that no matter what people want on the ground, they'll keep stealing and keep cheating the way they've done so far. So, so please, College, please, so this kind of, this kind of discussion that wants to, in some way, push this into another plan, to ignore it, and to provide people from the Central Election Commission to suit us today.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24643	Well, we don't ignore anything, we run a session according to the Rules of Procedure. Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24644	Thank you. Obviously, the strategy from the House of People – put everything under the carpet and wait for it to pass, transfer to the House of Representatives. I remind you, the House of Representatives has adopted amendments to the Electoral Law that provide for the introduction of scanners, video surveillance, ballot scanners, video surveillance and more rigorous and quality, cancer, control of the identity of voters. The people's home was first torn apart by the quorum in the last session, so that the session would not be held and that the Law would not be passed, and yesterday in a similar way, as my colleague Košarac suggests here, they adopted a conclusion that they would extend the statement of the Law to wait, of course, for it to be too late. I understand, and today right through the media I see that those who favor SNSD and HDZ have a very interesting same comment on this whole situation, and I understand all this as part of a political struggle, but I am absolutely against euthanizing the work of the House of Representatives, to let elections be discussed like this. I see that the goal is to get into elections without adopting amendments to the Election Law, also 24 probably close to fulfillment and to enter into a complete chaos where some will start an election day with 20, 30 or Bog ask how many thousands of votes already in the plus, which is unacceptable. I repeat once again, that 12 political parties from different entities, different parts of the political spectrum, parties co-operated on a daily basis, and also conflicted, gathered around an idea, which is a struggle to have fair and fair elections decided by voters, not voters in the evening. It's a big, big victory that you, Mr. Košarac, along with HDZ, as SNSD and HDZ prevent to adopt an improved Electoral Law and to be controlled, you have managed to unite a large number of political parties who will jointly fight and fight against you and steal choices that apparently make more than [[the speaker is warned on time]] He's already planning on it. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24645	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24646	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. I believe that these initiatives further devastate the position and the House of Representatives as the highest, therefore, legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina, at the same time speak a lot about themselves. The largest number of those who have now discussed voted this whole period, I speak back for 12 years, in most cases for each member of the Central Election Commission, on all, every year the report on the implementation of the electoral process was adopted almost unanimously. It is not the Central Election Commission of the World Institution that should not be discussed, but it is symptomatic when it is conducted and how it is conducted. This is additional pressure and further degradation of this institution, I'm not saying there's no failure, but it would be perfectly logical if we had information about possible affairs and stories, some of them very sophisticatedly designed, some of them stupid. It's not the Central Election Commission that we haven't done anything, we've decided to give her a seven-year term in all municipal, local elections, without any possibility of restrictions, even on two mandates. Here processes as a central electoral body, yes, run by the Central Election Commission, everything happens at the level of municipal and local election committees who choose local congregations and all possible failures, which there is no doubt, and we can never say for some elections that they are fair and fair to the end, could be removed. There was no willingness here for any, no political entity to change participation in election committees and control the electoral process between the position and the opposition, but here all allies are in different machinations. And 10, 15 days before the elections are announced, some new ideas are now coming up that will further adjust the situation. So, Let's make a decision, I'll just say that sentence, if the entire Central Election Commission were to be replaced, it would have to do this job by the end of the election process. [[the speaker is warned on time]] What does it mean to create an interparliamentary, or... a group, this one, for an independent committee or commission to oversee elections? So, I think it would be important that we have this information, that we run it, and that all members of the Central Election, let's not forget that we all voted unanimously and praised the rules of these members of the Central Election Commission in this body, almost without exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24647	Thank you. Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24648	Thank you, Chairman. I don't have the ambition for any of us to be part of some campaign that's obviously been going on for the past few months, so somebody has to keep going. But what do I want to say? We received our mandate in 2014 and when we discussed information on the conduct of the elections, we were not so focused on what was going on in the election process in 2014. Furthermore, there were local elections in 2016, it was also possible to have a discussion on these issues immediately after the implementation of the 2016 election results. We don't need to explain something in particular, we don't think it's time and it's impossible to do it and it's going to produce a lot of confusion and the fact is that we've never received the official position of the Central Election Commission before. The CEC is the body elected by Parliament, I think it would be absolutely logical, expected, necessary, for the members of the Central Election Commission to come and say what they think of our proposals. Why are we running away from this debate to bring the Central Election Commission here and talk about it? We can do it in the morning, it's not a dispute, we can look for a break now until we've eaten the members of the Central Election Commission, let's stop the session, but we can't do it like this. Don't tie SNSD to anyone, the SNSD is running its own policy and it's our fundamental right to express our position to get into this late, we think it can produce a much more problematic atmosphere after the election results. Of course, we also recognize the fear of other political entities based on analysis and evaluation of political parties prior to the 2018 elections, and we recognize that. But the only way we can hear what they're saying, here's a member of the Central Election Commission here, if that's the solution, let's talk about it here today. But let us have an official, that Parliament has the official position of the Central Election Commission. We're talking about something and we don't have an official Central position, or initiated a procedure to replace the Central Election Commission. Well, don't let us dissuade the public in different ways and make someone pretend, if someone has information that they're preparing to steal, Let him report it, I don't have that information, let him report it to the competent institutions and let the competent institutions examine and make the final decision. [[the speaker is warned on time]] But let's not do business with the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in such a way, with different kinds of information that someone wants to be fair, that someone prepares something, etc., which is completely incorrect, you give the relevant institutions their word on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24649	Thank you. I just want to draw attention to the fact that all the so far corrections of the false allegation are problematic from the point of view of correcting the wrong allegation. Obviously there are discussions under that pretext. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24650	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. So to colleagues Šepić and Magazinović, in the spirit of their opposition democratic debates in this Parliament and in the public, so first of all, I want to say the following. We've been through dozens of election cycles in this country since the end of the war, and no more serious international organization, an observation mission, has said what you claim, so, including the OSS, means you're saying it casually. If that is not the case, I would ask the gentlemen to give evidence examples of such 26 conducts, failures... so we have adopted all reports in this part of the mandate in which I am here and other mandates from the Electoral Commission, as my colleagues have already said. So, don't be disabling the public here, but give a concrete example, Mr. Šepić, where it can be proven... that someone stole something and that you're a judge, and that you're a prosecutor, etc., don't speak in your head. So give examples. And I would ask my colleague Magazinović to say, apart from being represented by the SDP, whom he represents in this House whether this mandate and to say these activities and initiatives that he is launching, to see in the name of whom he represents and proposes, I would like to hear as his colleague. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24651	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24652	Well, you want me to tell you, not on behalf of anyone Mr. Magazinović, because the citizens did not choose you, but you were elected to this House because it allowed you to impose an Electoral Law, so you, I don't know, and you don't represent those citizens you're talking about, because you're not elected to this Parliament. You have been appointed to this House, unlike me who I have chosen and colleague. So, you fellow didn't get elected to this House, you're set up thanks to the radical decisions of the Electoral Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24653	Please, Mr. Lovrinović, please...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24654	these citizens, don't even represent the citizens anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24655	I beg your order. Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24656	Dear chairman, members of the College, colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed guests. I would first like to wish that Mr. Bosić, who began to chair today, would like this House to adopt election law and all electoral rules that will allow fair and correct elections to be held. Of course I wish him success at other points, but I'm mentioning this field because that's what we're talking about today. I stood up to argue that one of the two colleagues who has been told here, colleagues Prodanović and Lovrinović, is that we should discuss this with reservations because we have adopted the Central Election Commission reports until now and that we have elected members of the Central Election Commission. Just because we chose them, I expected them to deliver to Parliament today a report on the last few affairs that are related to the work of the Central Election Commission. That's why I expected it, and not that we're opening that question to this one today, I'd say, a different estimatingly prepared way, that is, with documentation that is, is, by one under the questionnaire, by the other, of course, not. Is something going on at the municipal or local level? The Central Election Commission is legally responsible for organising an election process at all levels and is expected to report here today. I'm not 27 saying there's no material missing, I don't know, not one report I've received so far from the Central Election Commission has written that there are problems in the warehouse, because if we had opened the debate. So how could we open up a debate about something that wasn't in the report? We have given absolute trust One of the few institutions to which we have absolutely trusted is the Central Election Commission, and by voting on their reports without much discussion, and in general in public statements. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And they are obliged to justify that trust here in front of us in a way that shows that what is said is not true but not because we voted for them or for their report.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24657	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24658	I thank the chairman. Here I congratulate you and I on taking this function again and, behold, I remind you, given the kind of outbursts we have, Article 79 (1) says that the chairman of the House maintains order during the session, and the position (2) says that the House Chairman may warn a MP who, by his conduct or speech, does not respect the order or provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Now, if this, uh, Mr. Lovrinović's behavior you think is not worth the warning, then we're really starting to lower the standards in this House. And I would ask you to respond in time, because under disrespect of order, here's the attitude (5) says – it means insulting MPs and other present qualified, frequent entering the word, here I hear constantly, disrespecting the chairman's notice, has not yet broken it, but there has been no warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24659	Thank you. You're right, I warned and asked to calm down the situation, I didn't say any warning because I expect us to avoid direct conflicts in the follow-up of the debate. Saša Magazinović does not adhere to the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24660	The Honorable Chairman. I will not talk about disrespect, i.e. the flagrant violation of the Code of Conduct by my colleague Lovrinović, but I would like to say that it is absolutely a matter of non-compliance with the established agenda and the flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure. I have no problem when I'm attacked by a man who promotes South African apartheid in Europe through an institution of two schools under one roof, which is why he was removed by a high representative, I have no problem when I'm attacked by a man who is facing a convicted war criminal because that's when I know I'm on the right track.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24661	Mr. Magazinović, I would ask you to try not to open topics that might be commented as offensive to... 28
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24662	Here's why I'm gonna stop you here, but next time we're gonna be a little different.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24663	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24664	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To all colleagues who in their discussions mentioned in some way that this should not be opened in this way, so instructions as an argument that some in Parliament voted here, some did not. Here, I can say with myself, I voted for some members of the Election Commission, for some I didn't, but that doesn't mean that after these things happened that we have, and they happened a month, two, three, four months ago, some things that we suspect, that we shouldn't have answers in that sense. And I think it's a very good discussion of fellow fellow Momčilo Novaković who, in that sense, took a good part of my discussion. So we expect to have this one clear discussion here, a clear debate. I ask all colleagues who, in this sense, have their own kind of argument as to why it is necessary to defend this state to be preserved when we have this agenda item on the agenda that in this sense we open it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24665	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24666	Thank you, Madam Chairman, I apologize, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24667	I won't take it as an insult.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24668	I'm sorry. Don't laugh. In order not to take more times, the majority of times the fallout of the wrong quote refers to the discussion of Mr. Prodanović, Lovrinović and Mr. Košarac. Whether we're right or wrong shows, not how or not the report was adopted, but how we discussed the report. So I would just point out, the PDP has brought footage of a man who votes 17 times, the same face, and it's not a violation, we've forgotten the footage of the trash can, we've obviously forgotten, we've forgotten that at certain polling stations a large number of the same families and then in that voting space, 11 votes have only one vote, and 12%, invalid. We forgot that the average of invalid ballots is not above the European average, but above the average, here, in this damn Balkan space. There's no 5% going anywhere, we've got 10%, we've got treasure. So we have to do something, we're responsible for it, or we're responsible for continuing to give a chance to those who rob, steal, insult. They don't rob us here, they rob us, they steal the citizens. They rob and take from citizens and citizens have what they have, 29 emigration, migration, the imperceptibility of young people, the destruction of the future. And so on. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24669	Thank you. I warn you once again that we are not having any discussions through the mechanism of correcting the wrong allegations. According to the Rules of Procedure, it would be correct to say which MP is guilty of correcting. Correction of the wrong allegations, MP Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24670	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, honourable ministers, esteemed guests. Well, actually, I have to say that a few months ago I said I don't know, I'm not sure if this country is going to go into a serious crisis before the election or after the election. I don't know if we feel our involvement in bringing the country into a serious crisis and whether we read daily reports coming from Brussels, Washington and I don't know which other important destinations of internationals that strongly warn about various opportunities that can happen in the Balkans. This Parliament and the discussions that are being held, don't blame me, remind me of the 1990s. The parliament, which opens a debate on the Electoral Law four years after the elections, is an incompetent Parliament. The parliament that transfers its guilt to the Central Election Commission is also an incompetent parliament. The parliament, which has not yet been called in advance, speaks of the irregularity of the results of these elections is an unserious parliament. I can say that from the position of the personal votes I won on all election rounds, from 80,000 to 50,000. I can't believe people after four years when all the reports say they need to form, I don't know, some commissions, but let the job finish once. How much energy we, and the ugly words, spend here today, if we'd spent so much on writing laws or legal initiatives, this would have been a happier country. I'm afraid, I'm very afraid, that we're dragging this country right in the direction of warning. If there is no change in the electoral law, we are incompetent by the international community's assessment. If we hold elections on that principle, we're incompetent country, they won't admit them, and we enter that warning most tragically. I thought that today we would talk about where representatives of the international community see the danger of a conflict in the Western Balkans. Where we see, can we be the same way we're discussing? Part of it. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And that's why I'm begging you today, let's see how we get out of this country into trouble, not trouble. solutions. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24671	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24672	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, it refers to Mr. Arnaut's exposure, although he had no discussion, but he had, I don't know, business interventions. So, here, I recommend myself under his protection, and I remind him, therefore, that with a colleague he defended with standard insults to the account of the 30th party that I belong to and myself personally before a session when he spoke of the Middle Ages, and I gave him a book that I wrote about the Middle Ages, so now I'm sorry that I gave it to him. So then he didn't defend me, so I warmly recommend that he put me in his defensive positions, so here, and now after, so, what he said again I got, too, same insults, and, look, he didn't put me under protection, so I'm so sorry that he's making discrimination against me. So, Mr. Arnaut, I beg you, put me under your protection. And he's got a Rules of Procedure, and he's got a Code, and I hope he'll be applied to everyone the same on your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24673	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24674	My correction refers to respected colleagues who have tried to replace the the thesis of the public play, as one has been working for a long time, as some over-priced fellow political option is, and... are too many thieves. And that's one uncertained view of it, I think it's absolutely unacceptable. I respect your attitudes at all, but I don't agree with them. If this House makes decisions, it's absolutely my obligation to respect them even though I don't vote for them, but I disagree, I'm just saying what's true. It is true that the unreserved support of more than 3/4 members of this House has been the Central Election Commission for years. That doesn't mean we don't have to discuss it at all. I don't have an absolute reserve on this, but I think, if we are serious, and we should because we represent the most legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we should get information from the Central Election Commission on two issues that are problematic. It is one thing if they are ballots and the other is if it is a matter of some material as presupposing the implementation of an earlier decision of the Constitutional Court of Appeal to amend the Election Law. Why is that a problem? Is that what I need? At today's session, we can conclude that it is required that the Central Election Commission delivers information to the House of Representatives within five days, to schedule a special session on this and to hold a debate. I'm not behind any failures of anyone in that regard, but to say that this is the assumption that someone 20,000 ballots will be inserted, not to reveal who it is and report it to the competent authorities to be processed, I think it's incorrect. To accuse one side of this incessantly, I am against any abuse in any election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I am absolutely in order to conduct the debate, but in a way that would be appropriate to the parliamentary body, not to engage in speculation in this regard.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24675	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24676	I thank the chairman. A fellow Lovrinović of Lovrinovic's. Look, buddy, I'm not a lawyer here, I'm not a lawyer, I'm not an official lawyer. I usually choose who I defend. Defended by Ejup Ganić and Jovan Divjak successfully and proudly, and proudly I have never defended Darie Kordić, nor 31 Jadranka Prlić, so now they too are complaining of discrimination that I have defended one, and I have not defended the other, but it is my choice.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24677	Thank you. jasmin Emrić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24678	I thank the chairman. First of all, I, too, support the proposed agenda points aimed at opening a debate on all media allegations of some irregularities that are listed when determining the situation in the warehouse. It is said that the missing ballots, i.e. paper, are about 35 tonnes, etc., and when we listen to it in the media, then we cannot determine ourselves and we experience it in a different way and so we have more proposed agenda points and I think it would be useful to have the same unity in one whole agenda or information that will determine everything that is, here, and today was the topic in the debates. There's nothing too much to say here, no one said that the Central Election Commission is guilty, but here, as far as I understand it, and what's mine, is that it's a wish to determine the truth, that we know what's true. We even have documents available to the public saying you don't know where 35 tons of paper is. So somewhere around half a million ballots don't know where it is, there's a difference. These are official Commission records appointed by the Central Election Commission, and then, in front of the Central Election Commission, it is said – no, it is not true, everything is known where it is, everything is fine and there is no official information about it. I think we MPs need to know that, we need to know what's true, and we're asking for it to be determined, and we need to re-evaluate here immediately that the Central Election Commission is going to be replaced, I think it's premature, but if it's determined to steal, so it's known how responsibility is being raised if it was. Furthermore, I would like to remind this distinguished House that at the last session, we adopted a conclusion on the 16th item of the agenda which we tasked the Council of Ministers with preparing and delivering information from the Joint Council of Ministers and Government of the Republic of Croatia on the subject for the first next session of the BiH House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly – the possibility of building a warehouse and disposal of radioactive and nuclear waste at the location of Trgovina Gora in the municipality of the Court of the Republic of Croatia in close proximity to the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Council of Ministers, as far as I know, did not produce any information to the House of Representatives, and that was the Council of Ministers' obligation. I think it was appropriate for the Council of Ministers to inform this House that it didn't arrive or I don't know for what other reasons it didn't deliver that information to the House of Representatives. A very important topic, a very important question, and so public, and so many times I've potentiated to answer to me. as a representative of what is concluded, what are the voss on this very important issue. [[the speaker is warned on time]] There was no answer. The Council of Ministers, here, unfortunately, did not honor the conclusions of the House of Representatives. And, here, this is my call to honor that conclusion. I know that I can't go to any other office except, here, to say once again that the Council of Ministers ignores the conclusions of this House, ignores the deadlines, and it seems to me, all of us here together, especially me, because only so many times asked that question. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24679	Thank you. Debate, Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24680	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First, let me express my opinion on some discussions. I would like the discussion of fellow Špirić to be part of the SNSD election platform. I think it would be very important in that sense when it comes to attitudes on some of the issues that have been raised here, that is, which my colleague has brought out here, and which are not, I think, in public. Secondly, we don't replace the thesis with a colleague, I don't know how we're changing thesis now. At one meeting a member of my party says – people, I have a school base. He worked at the Zavidovici in Krinai as a driver and said I had to have a high school. I went and bought high school and now it's my fault, and it's not my fault he sold me. So, and here, gentlemen, I guess it's not our fault that we want to open up the debate on this issue, but the one that made it possible to create the impression that someone who made us practically open up the debate on this matter. And to get back to what I've come up with, which is, I'm going to give support to all the proposals that ask us to get quality information about what's been going on, not just about this issue, but about the affairs before this at the Central Election Commission. dati will also support the establishment of an investigative committee if this Parliament is not able to do so without an investigative commission, or if this Parliament needs it to come to the right, to the right conclusions. According to some other conclusions here is very discriminatory, such as this about tracking, forming an ad hoc commission, I don't think it's realistic, and in particular it's not realistic that the Council of Ministers brings this conclusion, because simply he can't get support at the Council of Ministers, so we shouldn't... But in any case, the chairman will, I suppose, all the initiatives, and we already have them on table two, try to turn them into one item of the agenda from which we will draw the conclusions we draw. In any case, my support intends to hold fair and fair elections and hold elections in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24681	Thank you. Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24682	I'm sorry, at first I didn't think I'd have to settle with Mr. Novaković, but for a long time we've been in Parliament, we've known each other for a long time, and there's at least reason to suspect that someone would steal his party, because I myself had as many personal votes as the club, the joint club of parties around him. So, but I have nothing against talking about amendments to the electoral law, about improving the electoral law, but Parliament that does this six months before the elections, and it hasn't done it in three and a half years, is an unserious Parliament, and that's the attitude and the SNSD, don't worry about it. And for my party, no one's worried about her anymore, and I don't think there's anything to steal from you, and I think talking about some honesty is too much, and I didn't think you'd dare me to say anything at all, and I'd rather stop at this point because I respect you as a second. What kind of party is this, I'm 80,000, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24683	Please, please, yes, listen...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24684	I collect... it barely collects 3,000, 4,000 and...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24685	Mr. Špirić, I warn you, use words that are not suitable in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24686	I'm sorry, I said, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24687	Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24688	You see how easily theft is easily established, 40,000 personal votes rise at once to 80,000 votes. The MP with the highest number of personal votes in this House is Mr Mladen Bosić. The team's all said. The largest number of personal votes in Bosnia and Herzegovina won over 50,000 votes in the last 2014 elections, Mr. Špirić, Mr. Mladen Bosić. You've cut your number of votes more than half.). They don't steal from the political party's election, elections steal the voter's will. The best evidence was that he was in Prijedor where we found stuffed ballots next to the school. And, here, I'll say, there wasn't a SNSD, I don't know where those ballots came from, because those ballots were filled, parliamentary lists, for DNS candidates, and here were votes for Mr. Dodik and Mrs. Cvijanović. So he's saying they were actually voters, but the question is, where does the excess of those ballots come from? Or you have 2014 in Brcko where more ballots were found in the boxes in four polling stations and twice as many voters as there are on the ballot list. So, something is happening and I don't know what the rebellion is and I find it very moving how today's Alliance of Independent Social Democrats is concerned about the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, safeguarding their sovereignty, legality and legitimacy. I don't know, very strange this SNSD catharsis today, symptomatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24689	Thank you. Non-compliance with the established agenda, Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24690	In fact, I want to say that I did not dispute the election results that the chairman of Bosić achieved, I was talking about the election cycles that were made, that I had had 75,000 to... in the previous elections. And these catharsis, which is spoken of by Aleksand ra Pandurević, how many catharsis our aleksandrica experienced when someone could count, should receive a prize in this House, but let's be polite, to talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24691	Mr. Špirić, I must warn you that... 34
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24692	You can warn me as many times as you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24693	Yeah, let's just say, aleksandrica's not the kind of thing that would...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24694	Well, fine, you see how nice I beat her, how nice I beat her. She's very interesting...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24695	Well, you see, I can't raise you, nor do I want to raise you, but I want us to keep our dignity here.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24696	... I've kept it as long as I can. [[He/she does not understand because he/she speaks at the same time with the chairman/]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24697	Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24698	We've all been elected here in accordance with the Electoral Law. I don't know anyone who's been elected here and sits down without being elected in accordance with the Electoral Law. When I was the bearer of the SDS list in Electoral Unit One, I had over 30,000 individual votes. When I left the SDS and went to the polls, I had ten times less votes. Look, Mr. Špirić, I'd like you to try it that way, so let me see how many votes you'd have. You probably wouldn't swear afterwards, you'd be embarrassed how much people love you or don't like you, both me and you, and every single one of us sitting in this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24699	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24700	Well, I'm sure you won't, because you're a much smarter man than I am, so you'll defend your interests much better than I did. As far as we're concerned, we're an uninhabitable Parliament. Parliament's seriousness here is being contributed by all of us. All of us sitting here at meetings, coming to committees, reading materials, discussions in this House, proposing conclusions, etc., etc. Let everyone find themselves at the end of this term. I know that I have not contributed to the indifference of this House's work, and let everyone find himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24701	Thank you. Debate, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24702	Mr. Chairman, distinguished ministers, honored guests. So, we're discussing the agenda, so I'll probably, I'll try to suggest something that's related exclusively to the virgin order. Namely, on this agenda are two points, and the same name of the law, therefore, is the Code of Criminal Procedure and, behold, one will be voted in the second round, and one will be held in debate. I have talked about this issue several times, this is about the system law, and it would be best if the Council of Ministers, using the capacities that the Council of Ministers has in the Ministry of Justice and also in the Ministry of Security, because there are enough professional people there to propose really quality solutions that the Law on Criminal Procedure will propose to the Parliamentary Assembly. How will the emergency procedure end? I think that it is not good for the system laws to be adopted by an emergency procedure, but it is necessary to adopt them according to the ordinary procedure, but for the purpose of adopting this law to try to find a solution, and looking at Article 187 in relation to the conclusions and the article on the draft of the law, 106, I would suggest one conclusion and ask for support, of course, when the debate is over, to ask for a brief break in the name of the Club to try to agree, if possible, given that this law has been led by a broad debate, that the current proposals on the Law on Criminal Procedure, whether it is a matter of discussion and proposals of the laws themselves, should be sent to the Council of Ministers, and that we will certainly have a session here in order to come to a quality solution that would be acceptable to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, to adopt a regulation that is necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I am based on the Rules of Procedure, because it is here that the Minister of 20 days that the Council should be written. By 18, we have quite enough time, and we have discussions that are also held in the House of Representatives, and in the House of Peoples, we have proposals from the honourable MP Lovrinović and the honourable MP from the Party of Democratic Action who made their proposals, and this is the same law. In order to come to a solution, although I remain in the view that the best way to do so is in the ordinary procedure, it would be good to take the opinion of the High Judicial Council and even the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights. And in any case, it would be a good idea that what you have at the Department of Justice, you have enough capacity in connection with this problem to be hired, and in the Ministry of Security, and that these jobs are not done by MPs, but by those who have enough professional capacity to do such a bill. So, I wouldn't now that, I conclusion I have written, but I don't want to improvise it now, because for him he needs support. If there is no support in the parliamentary assembly, then there is no point in reaching any kind of conclusion. This is just an effort to try to find a solution that will be in some way, because it's being extorted, where happiness is that everyone did their job on time, then we'd have a quality solution. So these two points of the agenda with all the discussions, proposals and conclusions, we would like to refer to the Council of Ministers who would provide us with a proposal that could satisfy what was through discussions, discussions, proposals, which are addressed to the parliamentary procedure. Here, so much for this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24703	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure and this and that point at the previous session are mandatory points of the agenda and intervention can be taken exclusively by the applicants. So Parliament cannot make any decision here, not even to take them down, nor to refer to any other consideration. Discussion, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24704	I thank the chairman. Here, I join what my colleague Magazinović said in his first line, that we would not discuss these various proposals, try all of this somehow, all of this concerns the same matter, unite into one general point, and we, here, have addressed it, now I will give the services to share – the debate on the work, activities and procedures of the Central Election Commission of BiH in light of the upcoming general elections and the need for them to be organised in a fair and fair atmosphere. As materials, here, we're taking over everything the other promoters in terms of material have delivered, so that, in order not to be copied again, everyone has. But let's say for me, it's controversial, but it's some of the conclusions that have been offered. Look, according to the Rules of Procedure, the conclusions stem from the debate, the Rules of Procedure are very clear, therefore, that the House adopts those conclusions that arise from the debate. So to reconsider the bill's proposals, i.e. to prejudge the conclusions by proposing them before the debate is held at all, I think it is not meaningful I, let's say, there are even a lot of mistakes in some, this conclusion on the establishment of a temporary ad hoc commission to monitor the implementation of the General Elections in 2018 in Article 5, says – and competences prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representative and the Law on Parliamentary Oversight. I remind my colleague Pandurević that Bosnia and Herzegovina still does not have the Law on Parliamentary Control because the House of Representatives has adopted the Commission's Report on Harmonisation, but the House of People has not yet adopted the Commission's Report on Consensation, because the House of Peoples session, here, is already two months, so that in this sense we do not have the conditions to discuss these conclusions and, ultimately, should the conclusions arise from the debate. Therefore, I propose that this item of the agenda, Saša Magazinović, join in the proposal and, behold, I only ask the services then to share, and the conclusions come out of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24705	Thank you. Non-compliance with the established agenda, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24706	We're already, this was the only way to get back to you, but we're already, uh, here, I just want to say that the Law on Parliamentary Oversight, as the services of this House informed me, was adopted, yesterday's report was passed on to the House of Peoples. So, as long as these conclusions are adopted and all, it will be published in the Official Messenger, we will have the law, why should this not be the first time we have tested this Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24707	So, I intend to take a break after these discussions to see if it can be done, whether or not the legislators of these laws that have the same purpose can define one proposal. Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24708	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24709	The law enters into force 8 days from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of BiH". The law has neither been published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", nor has it entered into force, and for the sake of the dignity of this House, do not let us adopt acts that also say the Law on Parliamentary Oversight that does not exist at this time. I wish we had some earlier, so that there were changes and additions, so that we could call on it, but in conclusion, we're relying on a law that doesn't exist, this one, it's really unserious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24710	Thank you. Debate, Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24711	Good afternoon, everyone. I have indeed been tempted many times to report to this right-hand side of the screen, through non-compliance with the agenda or correction of the wrong quote, but I believe that it is better for the level of debate here with one small delay not to discuss and react, because the debate on this has come under the level of this Parliament or was at the level of what fellow Špirić is talking about. Here, in some ways you've answered me now, I don't know how business instructions it is, the chairman, that kind of pause at the time of the adoption of the agenda. We here have two different and similar materials and it has been announced that a third different and similar material is coming. What are we going to declare here and how many new points of the possibly agenda we will have formally, the business menu remains an open question. Similar materials, when I read the title of one of these materials, says, which says – Information on the current position, evaluation and preparedness and ability of the Central Election Commission to organise and conduct fair and correct elections in October 2018. When this material reaches you on 18.04. and the elections are due to be called by 08th or 09th05. it is very clear that such material and such a debate is only in order to pressure the Central Election Commission, inadmissible pressure on the Central Election Commission, and yet in just one goal of not being elected in 2018, to extend to as long a period as possible. All of us here and personally and partyically, to put it this way, we know very well how I stand from the point of view of the 2018 elections and it is very clear that some here have the only way out that the 2018 elections will not be. In this context, I spoke and observed that there are also those technical so-called. amendments to the Election G Law adopted in this House in the way they were adopted. We have received the opinion of a competent institution about this Law already, all of you have probably read it, it is what it is. In the House of Peoples it was tried in some way to return in the right direction, possibly not jeopardising the deadlines, in a way that all those institutions that have to declare relevantly on the different aspects of this Law should make it possible for this Law, if adopted in the House of Nations, to be theoretically enforceable. I'm very aware that he's practically out of practice and about what it means to choose. So much for this agenda point, when we possibly discuss it, I'll say something else about it. Let me also be allowed to turn off the agenda, here with some nothing caused within this point to talk about war crimes and war criminals, including me just one sentence 38 A few days ago, there's a federal public service service on the occasion of the anniversary of the death of a war criminal, I won't mention names, a very nice contribution published in the central journal. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I have not noticed that any of the colleagues who have been challenged here have spoken selectively. within this topic of war crimes and war criminals that it bothered them. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Of course everyone likes to clean up other people's yard, not their own. And, here, so much for this Electoral Law, I believe this debate today will compromise the holding of an election in 2018.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24712	Thank you. Discussion, Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24713	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, here, I'm going to turn this point of discussion to one side and say it's justified or not, I don't know for what reasons or because of the problems we currently have in operation, have passed undetected information that the European Commission has adopted its Annual Enlargement Package and that in this report Bosnia and Herzegovina has a special place there and it is not very enviable when it comes to assessing the fulfilment of the obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina was supposed to do at this point. I will note that the report says that the Commission has recommended the Council to decide on opening accession negotiations with Macedonia and Albania due to the swings in the reforms they have. As far as Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned in the report, it is said that, and this is pointed out, a weak rule of law, a poor business environment, a little investment in education, a non-change of electoral legislation, is precisely what we are talking about right now. It is about the irresponsibility of political leaders when it comes to election processes in Mostar, to define the legislative approach to elections in the House of Peoples, to violate the European Convention on Human Rights, to the non-functional functioning of the Presidency, to the absence of a ruling coalition or to the poor functioning of the ruling coalition, to the weak or no reform of public administration that, in the last year at all, has done nothing at all, in fact, an agency dealing with this problem, the poor capacity of migration management, etc., etc., etc. That is why I would suggest that one of the points of the agenda here today be this essential thing, to talk about this European path specifically and not declaratively, and to move from this mile of hypocrisy to the miles of truth and reality in which we are at this moment, so I suggest that one of the points of the agenda be – the European Commission's report on the adoption of the Annual Enlargement Package with reference to the Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress for 2018. The material for this session will be obtained during the day, because I have information that Mr. Vigemark, the head of the European Union delegation, needs Mr. Bevanda, the vice-president, to deliver this report today. I would just copy that report, deliver it to the parliamentary benches and talk about it. Let's see, uh, to recognize specifically what these problems are, what we here in the parliamentary benches can do when it comes to one more quality swing when it comes to meeting certain obligations, etc. I will deliver this text of the new agenda item in writing, and I think it would be a good idea for this particular material to come to the Council of Ministers today to be a material for discussion. Thank you. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24714	Thank you. I would first inform you that at the request of Mr Vigemark at 14:00 hours, the College has a meeting with him where he would present the College, and therefore prepare a presentation of this to Parliament and we will see this material today at 14:00. We can deliver it, but I think the problem is that we're discussing it today, because that's what we should read. I suggest we leave it for the next session, and as soon as we get the material, we share it with the MPs that they have in the benches. If that's acceptable to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24715	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24716	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24717	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24718	For the next session. Borjana Krišto, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24719	Thank you very much. I'm going to discuss the agenda, I've been thinking whether or not to answer, I'm not going to talk about the proposals that apply, here, to the views, to the various analyses of the Central Election Commission, I just want to say and invite some others that as far as HDZ BiH is concerned, that BiH HDZ is ready for fair and transparent elections, whatever. And as for the draft agenda for the addition, the conclusion is actually under point 3 of Honorary Representative Amir Fazlić, I expected that my colleague Arnaut, since he is somehow on duty over the Rules of Procedure, which I certainly welcome, uh, will refer to this proposal as a conclusion, because this proposal has no basis. This is a proposal for a agenda item that we have completed and voted on on that agenda item in the first round, meaning at the barbecue session. So today, according to the Rules of Procedure, we cannot plead on this proposal for a conclusion, so please also in this sense that we show today everything we want to say and under all these other points, that we are transparent, that we support business provisions, that we want to do and respect procedures, because that is also democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24720	Thank you. But we didn't get it as a special item on the agenda, but I realized that when we get to that point, there's no new point in line with...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24721	There's no discussion, the debate's over.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24722	And there's no discussion, and that's true, and that's true, but we're going to clarify this situation. So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24723	Under the circumstances of the Rules of Procedure, the non-compliance with the agenda, so counterpart Krišto did not propose, uh, a new agenda item, nor did she ask for a missing agenda. Is he poor, or is he a College who needs MPs to be on duty for the Rules of Procedure, when this is how the members of the College, or Mrs. Krišto, when they don't know him and go out for the pay phone and when they set up the agenda, or propose a new one, or ask for someone else to leave them behind. And I also don't understand what this is about HDZ today, so they're constantly applying for my legal services, so do you have your lawyers, and according to how they end up, uh, in The Hague you don't seem to have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24724	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24725	Well, here's what I'm going to do is I'm going to ask my colleague under the wrong assumption, because she called on the Rules of Procedure, which the member of the Rules of Procedure called on, and if we consistently interpret the Rules of Procedure, I'd like that answer first, and then I'm going to quote one other member here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24726	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24727	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. As part of the debate on the agenda, Col. Fazlić only noted that before the end of the procedure under one law, which was discussed at the last session, he proposed a conclusion and I refer, therefore, to this and would not report at all for the word that Mrs. Krišto did not come out and state her position and her interpretation. When the Rules of Procedure is looked at, then, it is quite clear that, and we have had such a situation many times so far, that after the debate on the specific item of the agenda has been held, by the end of the session, they propose conclusions on certain points and they have been voted on and no exception has been made this time. The Rules of Procedure don't settle this matter until the end, but practice was like Mr. Fazlić did. Therefore, when we come to this point 3 at which there is no debate in the Rules of Procedure, after we vote on the Law, we should also vote on the proposal for this conclusion. But this is also a particular question that we will sometimes discuss here, even so there is an interpretation that when it is delivered to another home that it is then understood that it has been delivered in the set, therefore with the procedure in which it has been discussed at this House and with the content, but we have a practice of the House of Peoples which is different and therefore a colleague has proposed this conclusion. 41 So much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24728	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24729	Well, I'm not some expert on the Rules of Procedure, probably members of the College are better at it, but I have to say when we passed a variety of amendments to the Act on Excises, groups of my colleagues urged the Constitutional Court of BiH to state the procedure and the Constitutional Court said the procedure was respected when it comes to the adoption of these amendments to the Election(?) The law. The same situation we're in right now, exactly the same. To be clear to the end, I... the nakaradan was also access to the U.S.A., someone wrote the law, they signed themselves, they should have extended it to a larger number of MPs, but I think the amendments to the law are necessary because otherwise it would cause a total chaos in the judiciary. So I support this conclusion, but it would be a good idea to take a break, read the records of various of these amendments to the Excise Act, and you will see that you then supported what we have today through Mr. Fazlić's conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24730	Thank you. Deputy Borjana Krišto, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24731	Your Honor, I refer to the allegations of the distinguished representative Fazlić in terms of answers and clarifications and the allegations of Mr Arnaut. I'm not going to trap Mr. Arnaut's allegations to say that I'm the one who interprets the Rules of Procedure, that's what the College does in other situations, of course, this House in total. That from my knowledge of this Rules of Procedure, from the provisions which are perfectly clear and accurate, Article 82 says, I will also read paragraph (1) – on the content and be acts referred to in each item of the agenda shall be discussed before the decision is taken on it, unless the Rules of Procedure prescribe the decision on certain acts and issues without discussion. Paragraph (2) – when several proposals come to conclusions from the debate on the agenda point, the President of the House shall put forward proposals for conclusions in the order of the proposal. After the first statement on MPs' proposals is made, the House votes in full on the proposal for the material it is considering. In this case, I said, perhaps I didn't specify enough, I suggest withdrawing this conclusion because it doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24732	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24733	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. 42 Article 127 and Article 128. The Rules of Procedure resolve this situation and these are the only provisions concerning this situation and it is said – when the bill of law or other act that is to be adopted by both homes was adopted first in the House, the chairman of the House delivers it to the House of Peoples within three days and nothing more. There's nothing more in the Rules of Procedure on this subject. And that's why I said it's perfectly normal and logical that when the law comes to the House of Peoples, and it's adopted here in an emergency procedure, then it's a matter of procedure and content and that the House of Peoples is acting according to procedure and content as this House did. But we have a different practice, and time does not allow us to move things further and therefore, a colleague of Fazlić, to ensure, suggested this conclusion. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24734	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24735	Well, here's the thing, given that things aren't settled in our Rules of Procedure, we could be having a real debate here today. But, here, I'll say that a colleague has called on a member of 82 who speaks about the essence, but also a member of 165 is talking about procedure. Article 165(2) subparagraph (e), means whether or not we are going to oppose the essence and procedure here. I think he has the strength to vote on this conclusion. For those colleagues who need to read this article, Article 165 reads – the House can make declarations, decisions, recommendations, conclusions and other acts. Under (2) – the acts referred to in Article (1) are defined as follows, so I am going to point (d) – the conclusion is an act which is taken on issues relating to the procedure in the individual matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24736	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24737	I will return to what, therefore, colleagues Fazlić and Mrs Krišto need, a break of 10 minutes, take the principles of making changes to Election(?) The excise law violates everything that can be broken in this House and you agree that, to adopt it. For when it was due to bring these taxes, impose, then you had Vigemarka who and those of his who did not depart from the MPs individually. When you have the threat of destroying the system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no Vigemark, no one, and then you have no agreement on it. So, don't, and we have a Council of Ministers sleeping, uh, three months didn't propose anything in the procedure to solve this issue of the Constitutional Court ruling. Let's take a break some wu to solve this problem, this is the most important thing today this Parliament has to do today, this is all else irrelevant, we could not come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24738	Thank you. I've already stressed that the break will be at the end of the discussion. Deputy Borjana Krišto, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24739	I, of course, will try, the House will ultimately decide on all of this regardless, it will not be the first time that it will not respect, of course, the procedure, of course, colleagues Fazlić, that what he said in business that absolutely does not apply to this situation and to this proposal conclusion. Once again, I repeat the proposal for a conclusion was given at the moment this dom had already declared itself on the bill's proposal, so in the first round. So, we're only in the process of saying about the second round. So, please be fair and fair, I respect here and I know that there are hands for everything called procedure, and that's most of it, not respecting facts, no arguments, no procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24740	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. I'm giving a break of 15 minutes, so I have to remind you that there will be a new break at 1400 hours, I've already announced for a meeting with Mr. Vigemarka, so I'm asking you to try to resolve this issue in these 15 minutes, and I'm calling for the consultation of the members of the College on this other matter. Please, let's take our seats. Let's get back to work. I must inform you that I have been informed that the proposings of these points concerning the Central Election Commission have not agreed on a single point, but they suggest that, if the points are put on the agenda, that the debate on them be united, and that means that we will vote on one, and on the second item of the agenda on the agenda. So we're going to vote. First is the point proposed by Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. Should I read? You don't have to. I am voting on the proposal for a new agenda point before the article by Aleksandra Pandurević. For 23, v. 8, abstention 6. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Shall we go to the second round?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24742	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24743	It's a later vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24744	As far as I'm concerned, that's fine. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24745	So, according to the Rules of Procedure, there is no agreement that we should vote immediately in the second round and postpone the vote for the second round. I would like to put to the vote a proposal for a new agenda for Mr. Šepić. For 22, against six, abstentions 10. So there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Voting?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24746	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24747	There's no consent within the College. So the second round vote is delayed for the next session. As for Mr Arnaut's proposal, he was delivered without accompanying material, referring to material already delivered in the procedure and I don't think there are any conditions to vote on it. Mr. Arnaut, we're done arguing about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24748	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24749	Come on, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Come on, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24750	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. So, my remarks will be on the record and I'm asking for a record. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure say that the MP may already propose a item of the agenda with the relevant material. And the assessment of both my and Mr Magazinović that and that proposal that we delivered was in writing, that it was the relevant material, but then we also said that we were willing to take over the material of everyone else so that Parliament would not expose the costs of additional copying of the material, which is already shared to everyone. But it's our assessment that the material is appropriate. You now as a College, so you make a decision for the first time, this is a precedent in Parliament, that you judge what is the relevant material and what is not. So it's not just...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24751	No, you don't. You don't have any material.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24752	has not been orally carried out. It was delivered in writing, it's material, and now you judge whether it's relevant or not. I ask that this remark of my injury to the Rules of Procedure be recorded on record. I don't know why you're running to put something to the vote. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24753	No problem, we'll put it to a vote, it's not the problem. Here, you convinced me, we'll put it to a vote, but it's not right because I asked the promoters if they accept their material to be your material, they refused it. So you can't refer to someone else's material as your own. I'm putting the motion to vote on the new agenda of Mr. Arnaut. 18 for, v. 8, abstentioned 12. The entity majority does not exist in Republika Srpska. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You got it. We repeat the vote. 23 for, 7 against, abstention 8. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Shall we vote now?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24755	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24756	There's no consent within the College, no voting at the next House session. So this is what we've exhausted the proposals for supplementing the agenda and I hereby declare the agenda adopted. ♪ not in no re ♪ 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 59th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MEP Amir Fazlić (Law of Emergency Legislative Procedure), Law No: 01-02-1-668/18, of 05.03.2018; 4. MP Nikola Lovrinović's request to consider the draft law amending the Bosnia and Herzegovina Criminal Procedure Act under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-791/18, of 21.03.2018; 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Infringements – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-531/18, of 19.02.2018 (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-377/18, of 27.02.2018 (second reading); 46 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Mirsad Djollagic, Law No: 01-02-1-647/18, from 02.03.2018, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-697/18, of 07.03.2018 (first reading); 9. Proposal for a law supplementing the Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1-762/18, since 16/03/2018, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 10. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-02-1-1830/17, dated 27.03.2018; 11. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on MP Nikola Špirić's proposal to include a new item in the agenda of the 59th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which reads: "The Security Status in Bosnia and Herzegovina in connection with the alarming statements of BiH Minister of Security Dragan Mektić", issue: 01-50-1793/18, since 21.03.2018; 12. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2017: (a) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH, issue 03/1/50-50-2975/17, of 15/01/2018, (b) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, issue: 03/3-50-14-116-218, of 16/01/2018, c) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on European Integration, issue: 03/4-50-14-253/18, of 24/01.2018, d) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs, issue 03/5-50-14-11-11-253/18, of 15.02.2018, e) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, issue 03/6-50-14-14-14-14-14-23/18, of 20.2018; Report on the work of the Committee of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2017: (a) Report on the Commission's work to prepare the election of the Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01/7-50-3-140-8/18, of 17/012018, (b) Report on the Commission's work on Transport and Communications, issue: 01-50-19-2975/17, from 18/01.2018, c) Report on the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission, issue: 01/1-50-19-224/18 of 30.01.2018, d) Report on the work of the Commission for the achievement of gender equality, issue: 01/6-50-19-224/18 of 06.02.2018, e) Report on the work of the Commission for Finance and Budget, issue 01-50-574/18 of 22.02.2018, f.) Report of 22-02.2018 of 22-02.2018 of 22-19.2018 of the Commission'st of 22-19.2018. Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, material number: 05/7-50-19-555/18, since 21.02.2018; 15. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-565/18, of 22.02.2018; 47 16. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, the foreign courts provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, act No: 05/6-50-19-608/18, of 26.02.2018; 17. Report on the activities of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2017 – applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, issue: 01/4-50-19-750/18, since 15.03.2018; 18. Annual report on the application of the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2017 – submitr: Joint Committee on Human Rights, issue: 01,02-50-19-788/18, since 20.03.2018; 19. Proposal for a state strategy for the control of drug intoxication, prevention and control of drug abuse in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2018-2023 – applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-04-649/18, since 02.03.2018; 20. Review of the Hanka Vajzović parliamentary initiative, issue: 01-50-1-671/18, since 06.03.2018; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Agreement and the project between KfW, Frankfurt in Main (KfW), and Bosnia and Herzegovina (primary), presented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Federation), represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, and the City of Zenica (the Agency for the Implementation of the Project), which represents the mayor, amounting to 13.016.696,80 euros (investments) and 500,000,00 euros (tracking measures) – Collection and Treatment of Waste Water, Zenica, issue: 01,02-05-2-717/18, since 09.03.2018; 22. The granting of approval for ratification of Amendment No 1 to the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank on 19.05.2014 in Sarajevo and 05.06.2014 in Luxembourg (the Finance Treaty) – Distribution of Electricity BiH/C (Fi 82.304 – You've got the record. If there's any, there's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Comments to get do not answer parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24759	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I received answers from the Federation government, i.e. the Development Bank, to the question of how much funds and to whom the development of the Federation of BiH Bank has been allocated between 2014 and 2017 and which are the effects of spending these funds on the issue of new employment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I received an answer that in this period, from 2014 to 2017, a total of 296 loans were placed within three years, and in response it was considered as a bank secret to whom the funds were allocated and what is the amount of those funds. So it's disastrous for me to have someone answer me that the budget, it's about the Development Bank, so it's about our funds, about the resources of all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so people's resources, that we don't have the right to know who these people are, so who's 296 users who spent 314 million in three years, so 314 million. And on the second part of the question, which is the effects of the funds spent on new employment, I received the answer that in this period, over the three years of 314 million spent, a new 1,331 job took place. So, I pulled out some of my stats, mathematics, which says it's about 236 or exactly 236,063,60 for one job in the Federation of BiH from the couples that belong to all of us. So I'm interested in who they are, who are geniuses that spend 300 million marks in three years and employ 1,300 people. So, Development Bank, now I understand why we don't have that list, why we can't see who these party favorites are, listeners, tycoons, call them whatever you want, who these people are who spend our money and spend 236.000 on a new job in Bosnia and Herzegovina, our people's, budget money. The development bank, as I understand it and what its purpose should be, is a bank that should be used for development, for employment, for support in all people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, primarily for those who, therefore, have ideas on how to run this development, how to start employment, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, how one, two, three, five from the family to get the opportunity, to get some miserable resources to start some business. So it's something that I see as a Development Bank and what should be its purpose, not that 300 million marks give 296 users and these people employ 1,331 people for 300 million marks. Well, that atomic physicists are 23,000 one job is something that is totally unacceptable. I am today renewing the question and calling on all of us sitting here in Parliament and calling on the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be interested in what we are actually doing, what we institutions have done and what we have, what we have from the system we call our state apparatus and our state system. So, in this sense, I ask again, I renew this initiative, I renew the question, 50 so that by the end, the exact answer to the question -- to whom are the funds given, how much the entity received the funds. On the effects of employment, I don't need any further clarification, they said that 314 million marks, uh, effectively spent, so we got 1,331 new jobs. So, I expect who these people are, who's been given the funds and what's the amount of funds. And the second question, it was an initiative that went towards the Council of Ministers, I suggested that a Solidarity Fund be formed in Bosnia and Herzegovina to create new jobs. No special sense, in all, there is one such approach in many developed countries. What is me as a man, as I would say, which hurts me as a man, is one leniency in responding to some good ideas that come here from Parliament in a way that the Council of Ministers generally says - in accordance with the Constitution of all functions and powers not entrusted to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are in the jurisdiction of entities. And we don't do anything further about it, you have an idea of your own, but it's somebody else's job there. So it is totally unacceptable and humiliating in this way to treat certain opportunities for us to do something concrete in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, the Council of Ministers has a responsibility, has responsibility and must have the capacity to show the possibility to gather institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to make talks and that good ideas, to convince all institutions, lower levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina that good ideas should be supported. No Niko would have anything against this in the entity Republika Srpska, or in the Federation, or in the cantons. When it comes to telling people – you have your responsibilities, you will preserve it, but this overall helps us in Bosnia and Herzegovina get some better momentum in employment. And the other thing, it's not true that the powers are because, let's say, the powers of education, for sport, for culture, for entities, are not given to the state, and we get, for example, the Law on Preschool, Primary, Medium Education, we have the Higher Education Act, which is why we get institutions. It was just saying that if you have as a policy and as a politician the capacity to talk, to bring people together, to bring them to one table, then you can make a step and have a solution. If you are without any ideas, unable, therefore, hiding behind some national issues in which only people are poisoned, you fight, you share, and on this basis you are trying to maintain yourself, then so easily respond and say – you know, it's not our jurisdiction, it doesn't say there in the Constitution that you should do something about Bosnia and Herzegovina, that's the thing you should do lower levels. And lastly, take the exposés of the Council of Ministers, come on.. Take the exposés of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the exhibition also said which institutions... [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24760	You see, it wouldn't be right if the answer lasted longer than the question, so two minutes. I let you go because...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24761	You've got business, call in...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24762	I know, see, I have the right to limit the discussion. So, due to the possibility of misappropriation of what isn't written, I ask you to, not just you, but everyone else who will discuss, limit time, if possible in the time provided...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24763	But you just tell us in time the chairman. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24764	Well, here, that's why I let you go. Here, finish up you, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24765	Here, I'm done. So, I invite you to read the President's exposés. Well, I guess he knew back then what the Council of Ministers' powers were, what the lower levels were. At that time, he promised to make institutions, ten new ones at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we would get laws, regulations, funds, etc. Let him do the analysis now, and let him tell us what we got out of it. Perhaps the best answer is what the European Commission told us yesterday, how Bosnia and Herzegovina sees and how it sees the work of President Zvizdić and this parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24766	Thank you. Commentary, Damir Arnut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24767	I thank the chairman. Here, first of all, let me remind you and ask the College to perform an emergency. I sent... in writing, and I didn't get an answer to 22 questions I asked more than 30 days ago, and some such as this from the Council of Ministers and the secretary of the Joint Commission on Human Rights have been waiting since July, or August last year. As for what I have received the answer, I would like to express my really great satisfaction with the reply of the Canton of Sarajevo Assembly, specifically the Commission for the Marking, Conservation and Care of Historical Events and Personality. I referred to my initiative, which I referred to, among other things, the Canton of Sarajevo Assembly, to be named after Jelen Vitas, who was killed in the Jasenovac camp before the end of 1944 and after which she had previously named one street and one kindergarten in Sarajevo, to be called again kindergarten, school or any other institution of cultural or other special social importance in Canton of Sarajevo or some street, square, park or similar space in the city of Sarajevo. I have been informed that after the debate, the Commission has unanimously reached a conclusion that, among other things, it states that it is sincerely grateful for the initiative delivered that will be of great help in the work of the Commission. The Commission will take that initiative into account when awarding the name to the streets, bridges or markets, etc. In any case, I am fully pleased and I hope this is, that this will finally result in the return of the name or street, kindergarten or other, some other institution of public importance by Jelen Vitas, who has been brutally killed for her activities against the occupation forces during the Second World War in Sarajevo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24768	Thank you. Mrs Dušanka Majkić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24769	Thank you very much. My question was addressed to the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Federation, which refers to the unconstitutional use of old names of settlements in Republika Srpska at all official places in the Federation of BiH. I have to admit, I got half the answer from the Ministry. So they answered, the Ministry sent a request to the Federation Roads and the Mostar and Road Federation highways answered me, but the Mostar Highways didn't respond, so in that sense I pray that I once again insist that I get a complete answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24770	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24771	I thank Mr. Džaferović. So I asked the Tuzla University, and it was – are all the official languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina being studied at your University of Tuzla, to what extent are they represented in the teaching process? Of course I got an answer that was nothing at all, so they said about all the official languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina are being studied at the Faculty of Philosophy in Tuzla in the course of teaching courses, and that is that they are equally represented. So, I'm asking how, obviously I'm going to have to refer the additional question, I'm not satisfied with the answer. So, this is just to get me off the agenda, and I will remind you of this occasion that I have never received an answer from federal television, BHRT, about their status, their foundation and documents based on which they are also founded by Mr. Jasmin Imamović, mayor of Tuzla, who also has a question from me, I have never received. So these will follow the additional question, because I have asked them nicely how and how it is represented in curricula and programmes. So they're just, I read how they answered, so it's totally unacceptable and disrespecting nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24772	Thank you. Mrs. Mensura Beganović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24773	I thank and greet all the docks. I got two answers, I hope I have two times two minutes, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24774	Yeah, yeah. A comment cannot be longer than the time allowed for a question. It should be just a comment, satisfied, I'm not happy, but we from the College admit that it's not possible to define it exactly in the way I speak, content or dissatisfaction. So our interpretation is the maximum time to question. Here you go. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24775	All right, thanks for your... Okay. So the answer I received from the Ministry of Communications and Transport regarding the implementation of the Law on Electronic Signature is, I would say, quite satisfying and what is now, what is the situation leading to now that we are finally going to be the state that has implemented the Law on Electronic Signature in which one of the conditions for easier, cheaper and more successful business is both business entities and natural persons. As for this Act, the draft law that has been drawn up, the draft law on electronic identification and trust services for the electrical transactions that have been prepared and which is now in phase, in the procedure, in fact obtaining opinions, I hope that it will soon be in parliamentary procedure and I will be able to say in more detail that this draft law has been in line with the European Directive, which has been in force since '14, excuse me. So this directive has long defined things that we didn't have in the previous version of the law, so I hope that it will now be covered in the right way. As for the second ministry's response, it's the Ministry of Security, it's, my comment is on the addition of the answer that I received at one of the previous sessions and in which they tried in one more detailed way to give an interpretation of what my question was covered, which is Number, I'm sorry, but you took part in my time too... _________(?) [[the speaker is warned on time]] [[no microphone turned on]] ... which is estranged vehicles and working machines in the Federation and Republika Srpska, generally as a segment relating to security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I, too, have been quite pleased with some of the details given by the BiH Police Body Coordination Directorate, for example, and even quite surprising when it comes to co-operation with bodies outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, so, the countries of the region, and even the rest of Europe, but what is devastating in the response I received is that, that cooperation within the institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina is so low that the results are as they are. So, if this body is called the Police Body Coordination Directorate in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then I can't understand that they can't create more order in terms of the speed of information exchange, the speed of action can bring about a level that can even mate well-organised criminal groups when it comes to estrangement of motor vehicles and working machines. And the second part of my question, which was precisely the answer given by the BiH State Agency for Investigation and Protection, concerned about issues, parts of the issue, which discusses who and how he has and monitors the protection of personal data. So the protection of personal data is something that is directly linked to such widespread criminal activities when it comes to estrangement of motor vehicles and I find the answer very unlikely again, that the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of BiH does not have the data available... owners of motor vehicles. ...to do one more, a new question which is precisely what it's all about, because I think this is inappropriate for them to answer me like this. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24777	Thank you very much. Mrs. Hanka Vajzović, comment. Here you go. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24778	Thank you very much. And I have two answers at different times set, we're not to blame when you come in at the same time these answers, the questions weren't together. So, one of these answers to the comment can save some time. I once asked a question in February about the national structure of the management staff in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers answered and promised me, in one sentence, that in 15 days, I would receive a full review. I repeated my questions because I never got an answer in 14 months. I've repeated the question and now I've received an incredible answer from one agency, it's a public procurement agency where there are five names of that executive staff, and we know how many institutions there are, so I have nothing to comment on. The second question, the second answer I received was from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and I also reiterated the question asked in half last year, and it was said – did the Ministry ever, if ever, then, resolve issues with the Standard for Education with the WideBrieg, and I cited the D.A., contract, price, is mostly known, what were the problems. I repeated the question the second time on February 16th of this year asking for an oral response which, of course, for this Ministry is nothing unusual, I didn't get it, and I repeated it because the previous answer was, I have to say, so disastrous, and that, with the quote from that answer in the explanation, I specifically emphasized. I asked this time what was done in the meantime since I first got here. She's asked so far. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Instead of the oral one, I got, here, some kind of written answer and they say like this, I have to, of course, not happy, but I have to tell you what was done for those eight months, they added the explanation of the proposal for a decision on prices, etc., Is it possible that I only have two minutes to comment on two answers? [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24779	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24780	That's it?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24781	I said yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24782	Business?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24784	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24785	Thank you. Mr. Damir Bećirović, comment. Here you go. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24786	Well, first of all, I have to correct the chairman, and I didn't get an answer from the indirect tax administration, and I'm more and more suspicious now that certain persons from the IRS have been involved in the criminal activities involved in this response, because they themselves have declared the answer confidential. It is about persons who are obviously in contact with individual companies in the Federation of BiH where we have the sale of second-hand machines as new. And that is why the answer to my question is to provide me with a complete list of imported working machines for a company arriving from Herzegovina has not been delivered and has been declared binding. I am also asking in writing to be provided with an answer to my question because there is no obligation to declare it confidential.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24787	Thank you very much. Mr. Zaim Backović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24788	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be brief and quick. I asked a parliamentary question addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Justice, the Coordination Agency, the competent authorities in Canton of Sarajevo and the competent municipality of the Centre. Niko of us have treated ourselves, except orally, none of us have given anything. I ask you as MPs and you as chairman to tour the Chinese Embassy's locality and to see what kind of surroundings the tenants live in. We have the impression that we live in a war and that we are in danger of a camp. Logo, barbed wire where children play, with razor blades, which is inappropriate in the time in which we live and in the space we live. A team before the Embassy is located on the site of a kindergarten made by self-sufficient citizens of Sarajevo. And no one responds, all say: We are not in charge. The coordination agency says – we did not set it up to tell us in the hallway – that is our current assessment. They've put on the cones and banned the tenants from parking rights. The tenants will block the Kosovo Hill because no one in charge wants to react. Such behavior is inappropriate in a city that pleads to be the capital. A few hundred metres of barbed wire is spread on the Kosovo Hill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24789	Thank you. Commentary, Mirsad Đonlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24790	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have referred two questions to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. I referred to the justice ministry a question concerning the status of the process of fugitive General Đukić, who was convicted in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the verdict was annulled and he fled or went legally to Serbia and then, at the request of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, started the process in Serbia but it takes a long time and has no information related to it. I got a response from the justice minister who I don't think is right, in fact, by my deep conviction it shouldn't be 56 so they don't have any information about it and that it's the jurisdiction of the BiH Court of Justice. I ask the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to take care of such matters whether or not the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice, but these are the institutions that should have this kind of information, but I also practically referred the issue to the Court of BiH in the meantime. The second issue was about our commitments to meet the Energy Community because it is indeed one of the opportunities on which Bosnia and Herzegovina lost tens and tens of millions of grants to the European Community. We didn't use those funds, and we could because we need those funds to invest in the energy sector. It says here, in this response, that everything was practically agreed and prepared seven years ago to come to a strategy of the energy sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am taking the opportunity and calling on all competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and at this point I think that, according to this response I received, the institutions of Republika Srpska did not respond to this need to create this strategy. What's there now, behind all the reasons I'm practically not interested in, but I'm interested in getting Bosnia and Herzegovina into the funds, because they're grants, and we just don't have that money. And I appeal to all those who make decisions regarding the energy sector that this is truly respected and that we finally get the strategy of the Bosnia and Herzegovina energy sector, which will allow us to get the most needed funding, and these are very high-quality funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24791	Thank you. This is where we end up with that part of the agenda. We're going to the third point, Ad. 3. Report by the Kolegijum on the attempt to fast its consent on the pre-law on the amendment of the law on trade between us and the addition of the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MEP Amir Fazlić (Law of Emergency Legislative Procedure), Law No: 01-02-1-668/18, of 05.03.2018 At the 59th session of the House, held on 21 March 2018, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina was addressed to the Kolegijum of the doma as a commission. The college didn't achieve consent. Ambassador Amir Fazlić delivered the proposal on 17 April 2018. Let me remind you that there is no debate about the College's report on the alignment but we have a situation that we do not have agreement within the College on whether the conclusion delivered by Mr Fazlić was delivered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not. In such situations where there is no agreement in the College, which should be an interpreter of the Rules of Procedure, a decision on how to proceed will take the House by voting when the time comes. So, during the vote on this point, if the law is adopted in the second reading, the House will declare whether or not to put Mr Fazlić's conclusion to the vote. This concludes the third point since the discussion is not foreseen. 57 Let's go to point four, Ad. 4. The request of MP Nikola Lovrinović to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-791/18, of 21.03.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24794	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here, as a proposer, in a way, I would like to explain, what avaz would say just before was caused by nothing, why this Law, why I proposed it and why it is in this procedure. I'll just remind you of a few things. So, first of all, at least half last year, the House of Representatives, on the trail of the Constitutional Court's decision, tasked the Council of Ministers to show about the decisions of the Constitutional Court, or to prepare solutions for amendments to the disputed articles. Afterwards, at the 108th session, the Council of Ministers ordered the Ministry of Justice to draw up and prepare it for the Council of Ministers. Afterwards, the justice ministry formed an interresorni, or already as it is called, a group of experts working on the proposal. And after that and after that, so also before the session where he adopted the SDA proposal, the minister offered the Council of Ministers a proposal for a solution, i.e. amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, which did not agree to be held at the Council of Ministers' meeting, so before the meeting, and then to the House of Representatives, I do not know for what reasons. And therefore, in some way, what he would say again, "Dnevni Avaz" with nothing to be challenged, revolutionised by the gentleman's conduct, is chaired by the current Council of Ministers towards a fellow member of the Council of Ministers and, at all, according to his procedural obligations, so to put it in the Council of Ministers' session, how this would end at all is irrelevant or important, therefore, but would end there. Perhaps he would be rejected, perhaps adopted by a revote, come back to this House, colleagues from the U.S.A. would have a chance and an opportunity to make amendments to the law, for example. If they're not with him, they're as happy with the solutions as they did with the bill. How come it is not accepted at a Council of Ministers session, not to be a proposal from the Council of Ministers, I have never received an answer, and I am sorry that, however, colleagues, I will warn you that throughout this mandate, especially those most numerous parties in this parliamentary majority are very often, and I am responsible for saying that at least HDZ, I said once on five fingers can be counted, destroyed what the Council of Ministers or worked past the Council of Ministers has proposed. There is now an idea ahead of the end of this term that the Council of Ministers is working past its counterparts in the Council of Ministers' composition. Well, there's no point, so someone talked here today from their colleagues, no matter who it is, so if any such system law is going to propose in normal procedure, or in a solution that is acceptable and in an expert analysis, it had to be the Council of Ministers. Obviously, it wasn't allowed. So, I took advantage of my options as a representative to propose, in fact, it's the law that the Ministry had prepared for the Council of Ministers' session, including 16, so the Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers did not again allow 58, so before the meeting of the House of Ministers, to again not allow this law to go as a proposal for a minister at the Council of Ministers' meeting. Well, it doesn't matter that he wasn't satisfied with it, some solutions, he could have changed it at the Council of Ministers' or fellow members of the Council of Ministers' Council. It's an amazing approach, and we're going to see a lot of new things by the end of this term. And just to remind you why I suggest it. Namely, in Articles 84 and 117, which is... to the Ministry, and... from the SDA, for example. They have thrown out certain qualifications of criminal acts for which this, as I say, can be used, special investigative actions such as. Some of the catalogues of these concepts have been thrown out, and some have added only one general qualification. Article 118 is the same, dake. Therefore, I do not understand why Mr. Zvizdić was so found and why he did not allow the Council of Ministers to be manifested on the Council of Ministers about what was his duty and his ministry and at the conclusion of this House. And, therefore, since that was the case you have before you the Law, I am staying with the Law, asking that we make a statement about it and that... haste procedure, or already as Dom declares himself, and then we will discuss the metrics when that part of the debate comes to order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24795	Thank you. So I remind you once again that we're discussing procedure, so emergency procedure. Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24796	I thank you, Chairman. As far as emergency procedures go, I don't think we can support her for any more reason. Dear counterpart Lovrinović claims this is the law of the justice ministry. I know that government representatives, the Ministry of Justice of Republika Srpska participated in the task force and that they agreed on the text and I saw, I did not see the text, but I saw then their opinion that it was okay and that even Republika Srpska would change its entity law on criminal proceedings. However, now I am confused, after that opinion of what you have suggested, I then think it is not the same law, that this law has changed in relation to the work of the Nu Group, because we have received a new opinion from the entity minister of justice who has a number of objections to this Law that you have proposed here. Well, I really know Mr. Kasipović and he's a serious man and it's quite certain he wouldn't send two different acts to the same text. It seems to me that there have been some changes between the working group and the ministry's proposal that the working group has nothing to do with. And therefore we cannot support this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24797	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24798	So, I don't know what Mrs. Pandurević has in mind, I have information, after I have already said, that it is a certain ministry of justice to prepare for the Council of 59 ministers, according to the information I have, therefore, the procedure has been implemented. I don't know if the opinion of the Ministry of Justice of Republika Srpska is mandatory but even if it is, therefore, I have assurances from the Ministry that all procedures have been carried out, that all the debate has been completed, that it has been in some sort of public debate. And finally, I was saying it could have ended up on the Council of Ministers, so anyone who had any objections could have said them as a member of the Council of Ministers or in the procedure proposed by the Council of Ministers if this Law was given the necessary support to the Council of Ministers could be intervened here by the mechanisms that exist in our Rules of Procedure when it comes to the work of the Representatives' House or the House of Peoples. So I have this kind of information, and that's the law. I don't know, here, which opinion, perhaps that opinion within two or three days came, I don't have that information, but as far as I know, the procedure regarding the Ministry of Justice, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers, was implemented and that he prepared a law that he wanted to put at the Council of Ministers' meeting, which failed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24799	Thank you. Discussion, Deputy Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24800	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. So it's about a bill that I'd rather support in an emergency procedure and then get him out of the process as quickly as possible, but we're not going to take any chances and we're going to vote against emergency procedures and against short procedures and against the law in the end. I can now elaborate all the reasons why it is but I won't elaborate anything of my own I'll just say what the people who are neutral in all this, who are objective, impartial and who are primarily experts in this area. I would remind, therefore, of the views of the international community in Bosnia and Herzegovina, international experts who have made it clear that what Mr. Lovrinović has proposed today was at the Ministry of Justice and that this is, in fact, the position that came from the Ministry of Justice and that this is absolutely insufficient when it comes to the functioning of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the fight against organised crime, corruption and other forms of the most serious crimes, and that this is something that, apart from that general obstacle to the successful activities of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office and the law enforcement agencies in this area, is something that current cases that are in front of the Court and the Prosecutors of Bosnia and Herzegovina can lead to an unspeakable situation. That is what the European Commission and OHR said, and the seven embassies that issued a special statement on the topic here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and experts. And I invite you to, here, if you don't believe me, trust all these institutions. One day it will become known why all of this was done in Bosnia and Herzegovina and why we have this debate today, but since then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24801	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24802	So, Mr. Džaferović. If so, Mr Džaferović, if we have the Council of Ministers, if we have the conclusions that I have stated, if we have a procedure for the Rules of Procedure, both ours and the Council of Ministers, why didn't it end at the Council of Ministers and be rejected at the Council of Ministers. So who was the first and the first of us to be called, rather than the Council of Ministers. So, here, that the law is no good for any letter why it didn't end up on the Council of Ministers, why the Council of Ministers didn't put on the agenda to discuss it and to say to the Ministers, sir, here's what you're saying, that is, you're not that, that you're getting a gentleman's chance to explain your proposal to the Council of Ministers and here before us. Therefore, even if he had won, however he had finished he could have ended up here in front of the dom, even if there were voting over. So, you're initiating a constant parallel procedure, the whole mandate you're initiating this parallel procedure. So, you have the Council of Ministers chairman, you have your ministers, and so do we, so and then the proposals come from the Assembly. You said you were correct... you said this wasn't a SDA proposal, and I know it, so just tell me whose proposal it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24803	Thank you. Borislav Bojić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24804	Once again, and with regard to the debate on this law that is practically in place, I have already talked about the agenda, about the content of the Law once again, to remind myself that it would be good to have what we have, and indeed in the Council of Ministers enough capacity, I will repeat that once again, there is a need to repeat it, this kind of system law, while respecting that indeed a large part of the Law that is proposed by colleagues is very good, there is not much room for a large number of remarks, but the fact that this kind of system law is never passed by emergency procedure. The emergency procedure here is patriciously consummated because it is intended only for a number of questions that are easy to change in terms of text, etc., here are now practically accessing to change system law in this way. I know that in the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Security has enough professional people, has the capacity to have this law prepared and passed in the way that is normally common in the parliamentary procedure, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. And I do not wish to reject any proposal, or any other MPs, and I respect what the MPs have done, I also respect these facts that you have spoken of, but I think it would be best, and in 18.05, it is not far away, that this Parliamentary Assembly assigns the Council of Ministers to prepare the Council of Ministers on the basis of the debates held here in Parliament and the House of Peoples, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, and on the basis of all the knowledge that... a proposal that can be made. In this way, we would practically, uh, come up with that solution that can meet these challenges. I think it should have been significant to include the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council here, necessarily the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. I think it is important to take the case law, I repeat once again the Strasbourg Court which can certainly be well implemented as part of the experiences, or applied here when it comes to this Law. And in the end, I see no single reason why this Parliamentary Assembly does not put into effect everything that we in Bosnia and Herzegovina today have in terms of capacity in the Council of Ministers to provide a quality law that can, above all, satisfy needs, be aware of the fact that this law really needs to be passed. I repeat, 18.05 is not far, I am convinced that in the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Security, with respect for all that I have heard here, such solutions can be made. 61 If there is agreement among MPs, I am not running away from suggesting that the Council of Ministers should be concluded, so I repeat once again, with proposals and proposed laws, and on criminal proceedings based on discussions in the Parliamentary Assembly, preparation and parliamentary procedure, a law which we could consider at that time and in an emergency procedure if such kind of agreement would occur. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24805	Thank you. Discussion, Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24806	I thank the chairman. Well, I think that we are all witnesses of the fact that it is necessary to adopt amendments to this Act but I think that there are constitutionally and in another way defined procedures and I don't think that we can put as an alibi the urgency to put it on the agenda because someone justifies trust with the international community, international organisations and some experts when there is a Ministry of Justice in this country that is definitely authorized to put amendments and additions to the Law on the agenda, above all, of the Council of Ministers, later and at the House of Representatives, or the House of Peoples. And I don't think it's a good thing to affirm, Mr. Vice-President, some solutions based on the views of some ex-sperates and some members of the international community and that we have institutions that are responsible under the Constitution, on the one hand. On the other hand, we must be witnesses of the facts and be completely honest here and say that it is disabled at the Council of Ministers' meeting to discuss this issue and that, in the session of the Council of Ministers of Justice, it is impossible to put this Law on the agenda because two, the chairman and vice-president, so Zvizdić and Šarović, refused to put this agenda item on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. And that's true. On the other hand, that is true, on the other hand, we have had this kind of effort by MPs in the House of Representatives to put it on the agenda of the House of Representatives, which I think is very bad and I think it is quite clear that we have all witnessed that the conversation, an intense conversation with foreigners from the previous two days, was the product of this conclusion that Amir Fazlić tried to refer to the House of Representatives so that, if this Law was adopted, it would eventually be in the process of an urgent procedure in the House of Peoples. So it's completely clear and completely factual. I suggest, once again, since it is a system law, that the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers make their decisions and that we wait here. Everything else, I don't think it's a good message because it's a systemic conclusion. And I think this proposal Mr. Bojić made is the most correct and is heading towards an adequate solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24807	Thank you. I have announced earlier that at 14 o'clock we have an earlier appointment with Mr. Vigemarka, so I am announcing a break by 15 o'clock. 62 Please take your seats to continue your work. So we're moving on to the fourth item of the agenda and I'm calling the vice president, Borjan Krišto, za diskusija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24809	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Since we have on the agenda a proposal to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure under the urgent legislative procedure, I will also not talk about legal solutions, or norms proposed in the amendments, I will try to speak from the aspect of urgency, or urgency. I will remind you all that the Constitutional Court, by my appeal, has declared the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, means, against the constitutional and contrary provisions of the European Convention. Of course, this Court of Justice was also required to put the above provisions at the sitting outside the legal force. With all this in mind, we have been obliged to pass the law at a time when he has made a decision in and of course that should have been dealt with by the resolution ministry, certainly, as a technical processor, i.e. the Council of Ministers as an authorised legislator of this law. I don't really have a lot of information and I don't ever want to speculate with anything. What we saw and heard from the promoter, Mr. Fazlić, we saw that this was not a proposal from the federal, or the State Department of Justice. This time, a colleague told us that Lovrinović had headed for parliamentary procedure and for... urgent reasons, because the minister did not have the opportunity to propose such a law to the Council of Ministers because of opposition from the chairman or anyone else. So that we don't fall into traps, especially because of the media that, of course, always have their own kind in the truth, who should all wonder who's in this campaign, maybe they or some more than some of the representatives here are in this House. And I don't want to abuse or call anyone in any way, but I would ask all of us to be responsible, and I would like none of these laws to be proposed by any of the MPs. But with respect to the urgency of the procedure, here I understand the esteemed colleague Lovrinović, who in some way explained it, so in this sense I would say that this Parliament really needs to find an urgent solution and I will support the emergency procedure if I believe that this law can in some way implement this decision. And I will take the opportunity and thank many students, most often from the University of Sarajevo or the University of Sarajevo, as you will, and the distinguished lawyers who welcomed this request for the assessment of constitutionality in terms of the protection of fundamental human rights, i.e. abuse, combating the use of the law when it comes to criminal law by those, of course, who apply it. I will remind all of us once again – it is urgent to find, uh, a solution to the implementation of this decision. I liked it in some way, and I also liked the proposal for the conclusion of a respected colleague, Borislav Bojić, who complained about some sort of solution to see how we could get to a united one, so we could hear the Council of Ministers' position as well. So in that sense, I would like to hear specifically about the Law, so that we can, in some way, manifest ourselves, and the opinion of the Justice Ministry, here's a respected minister whom we haven't had the opportunity maybe because the media and the public didn't care or that the minister didn't have the opportunity to say something like that, so that everyone together can decide in a normal way, because this law that needs to be systematic is the law that all the citizens of this Bosnia and Herzegovina should be equal. It is a law that must be just, enforceable, norms must be determined, not the kind that leaves the possibility of abuse, and thus the violation of fundamental human rights. Thank you very much. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24810	Thank you. Here, we have a statement from the Minister for Addressing the House. Excluse the ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24811	Well, that's not his agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24812	Well, according to the Rules of Procedure, ministers have the right to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24813	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the College, distinguished MPs, MPs, fellow ministers from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. As we also had the opportunity to hear today the BiH Constitutional Court in plenary, resolving at the request of Ms Borjana Krišto, at the session held on 1 June 2017, adopted a Decision laying down that the provisions of Article 84(2), (3) and (4), respectively, paragraph 117 d), Article 118(3), Article 225 (2) and Article 226 (1) of the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH do not comply with the provisions of Article I of the Constitution of BiH. The decision was published in the Official Voice of Nick. The decision requires the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to lay down those provisions within six months at the latest, and to inform the BiH Constitutional Court of the measures taken to implement this Decision. The BiH Council of Ministers met at the 108th session, held on 19 July 2017, that the College of the Parliamentary House of BiH at the 51st session and the College of the Peoples at the 48th session discussed the Constitutional Court Decision in question, and decided to deliver it to the BiH Council of Ministers for Implementation. The Council of Ministers has tasked the Ministry of Justice to implement the obligations arising from the Constitutional Court Decision for the Council of Ministers. For that reason, there was a need and justification for the establishment of an expert working group to take measures to implement that decision within the time limit set. After that, I made a decision that I appointed the Working Group composed of representatives of the BiH Ministry of Justice, representatives of the entity ministries of justice, then the Brcko District Justice Commission and, of course, not leaving the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. After a certain period of time, interest also arose from the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Court for Employment in the Working Group. They were support, they were support, and not only them, but also some international organisations and NGOs. After the job was done, to be clear, we referred the material obtained to the necessary opinions so that we could complete it to the Council of Ministers. All opinions were positive. We also had the Law under the rules in public consultations for 21 days. It is very important to point out that in public consultations we did not have a single objection to this Bill proposed by the Working Group made up of a shitty Justice Department. Clearly after the Law was completed with all the necessary opinions and public consultations I referred it to the Council of Ministers. He was on the draft agenda, however, when we came to the Council of Ministers' meeting, i.e. I was too loud, i.e. we voted whether or not that law would be included in the agenda of the Council of Ministers. So, I was not allowed to give my comments at the session, or to get any suggestions, or suggestions, or opinions on the Criminal Procedure Act, as you yourself said, as you yourself pointed out to a very important system law for Bosnia and Herzegovina. For what reasons did this 64 happen, whether it happened because the SDA had its proposal of law in the House of Representatives or not I can't speculate, I can't talk about it, but only I know that I didn't stop at it, but I repeatedly asked the Council of Ministers' chairman to re-enter the Code on Criminal Procedure, which was made up by the Justice Ministry, again on the agenda of the Council of Ministers, to talk about it, to see which, if they were, the shortcomings in that Law, to try to correct them and to get out of this potentially legal issue for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think I need to say anything anymore, I think I've told you everything. If there were any further questions, I wouldn't be going into the measure of the law here right now, but I think the urgency and justification with this is shown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24814	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. Now prepare to vote on emergency procedures. Three for, 28 against, seven abstentions. So there's no general majority, the emergency procedure hasn't passed. We're going, we're voting on a brief procedure. Please prepare yourselves. 3 for, 28, versus, 7 abstentions. There's no general majority. So, the law goes into regular procedure. This concludes point 4. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Infringements – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-531/18, from 19.02.2018 (second reading) The bill was adopted in the first reading at the 59th session of the House, held on 21.03.2018. The Constitutional Legal Commission submitted its report on the Bill's proposal on 18.04.2018. The Commission adopted the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on infringements with three amendments and proposes its adoption to the House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the hearing at point 5. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. Before the draft law on change between us and additions to the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-377/18, since 27.02.2018 (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24818	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, as I would say, in a certain way and I'm sorry that here I don't already know which time we're discussing the proposal to supplement the Sport Act, with what it really is, it's one more, one member I suggested, but after discussing with sports workers, it's been suggested that one member be changed there, or that one member be added on the basis of which and based on which to license the trainers that are in line with the rules of the European and World Food Association. Those two other members that were left, they basically stayed as they were in the previous law, a proposal for the text of the law, but here I thought that this kind of innovative law also had a need and that there was also an opportunity to talk about it one more time. The truth on the Constitutional Court was shared opinion, there were no, there were only six members present, 3 were against, so, true, there could not be a positive or negative opinion, and in fact there was no need for a number of votes to support this constitutional basis of the Law, which is not clear to me that there is no constitutional basis, but the other thing is that the principles may not be supported in all this. But I only know one thing, that this is one of the last opportunities for this Parliament to send a positive signal to young people who are engaged in sports, that this country also wants to take care of sports and help sports in a certain way. In any case, in the last five days, you have been able to read a lot of texts about the fact that, due to tax shortages, sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina are completely at risk, not only representative selections but also club selections. And I think that the proposal of a member like this would make this thing a positive solution, and sport would eventually have a place of its own, uh, where I think it belongs to it and so I ask that we reconsider the proposal of this, the addition of this law, and that this, this supplement, this new law, you give this new law a chance to really show, this is one small step, one small move, but it would thus show that this high 66 Dom wants to express its concern and its willingness to help sports and young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24819	Thank you. Ambassador Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24820	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, very briefly I answered really briefly to say and invite all of us to support this little step in terms of improving this area. So this is about universal principles, these are the approaches you have in all, in all parts, as I would say, serious countries. So, there's no policy here, I know that when this is trying to crash, then, without any debate about the essence, it just refuses, says we have some problem with jurisdiction, etc. So this approach needs everyone, and I would ask, here, in that direction, that, I was talking about it on the Constitutional Commission, to show some of it here, I would say, more responsibility, if we understood the state of people when it comes to sports. There will be similar discussions, and when we talk about this Law on Higher Education, I will therefore support one and the other of this law and I call on people to, given that it was 3:3 there on the Constitutional Commission, to reject this negative opinion today, to preserve this Law as such in the procedure and finally adopt it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24821	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24822	I thank the chairman. Well, you said in your opening statement that this was about another negative opinion by the Constitutional Commission. However, for the first time when the Commission considered this Law, the Commission established compliance with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but did not support the principles of the Law and you have the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, therefore, when it was first established. The House did not accept the Commission's negative opinion on the principles of the Law and returned it to the Commission for review in accordance with the debate at the House. When it was found again, this same bill, before the Constitutional Commission, the Commission did not then establish compliance with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina and therefore did not have the conditions to consider the principles of the bill. But in any case, what we are talking about here now and this is the first time Dom has faced this situation, is that here we cannot talk about two sets of negative opinions of the Constitutional Commission, because the first time the Commission has considered this has given a positive opinion on compliance with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina. When she considered it the second time, and the only reason she considered it the second time that principles were not established, she did not establish compliance with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. And I therefore believe that the conditions, which you stated in your opening statement, set out in Article 113(4), are not met here, to suspend the legislative procedure today. So we here have the conditions to bring this back to the Constitutional Legal Commission, because we only have a situation 67 where the Constitutional Commission once, once only did not support the principles and once again just failed to establish compliance with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. Therefore, we do not have the conditions set out in Article 113(4) that the procedure can be repeated at most twice. Here, in both cases, the constitutional basis and principles are just one negative opinion from the Commission. I am therefore, on behalf of the Club, aware of the fact that this is the first time that the House is, at least in this term, facing this issue, and when I say in this term, it means under this Rules of Procedure, because this Rules of Procedure has not been in force since this term, I am asking for a break on behalf of the Club of 15 minutes to consult and take a position on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24823	Well, I don't know that you can ask for a break for college. A colleague may request a break if he has a need to consult. I can give you an explanation of this situation from the point of view...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24824	So I'm giving an explanation to give the College a chance, and if you're gonna consult or not, it's up to you, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Club...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24825	There's no need to consult, but this is a clear situation, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24826	dobor, well, I'm mourning a half-hour break right now, so let's consult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24827	So you can look and watch, you can look and...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24828	But I can't, I can do half an hour in my business.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24829	Half an hour's break.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24830	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24831	Please take your seats to proceed with the session. Mr. Arnaut, as someone who requested a break, is not present. Is there anyone from the club to explain, does he need to explain?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24832	First, how can you ask if anyone is present, and you're looking at me. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24833	And I said, if there's anyone to explain, if there's anyone from the club, I see you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24834	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24835	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24836	It may not suit your legal interpretation, because I'm not a lawyer, but anyway. The dilemma is whether the constitutional basis and the principles of the Law, whether it is treated as one opinion if, say, last time, the constitutional basis is fine, the principles of the Law are wrong. Now it's been given that the constitutional basis is wrong, which I don't quite understand, and I'm unclear that there could be a conflict with the Constitution. So it's something that's totally unacceptable to me and it's treated like both times is both negative. That's it, so twice, the law that's been discussed at the Constitutional Commission's session can be treated twice by constitutional basis and twice by the principles of the Law, that's actually the difference in opinion, the difference in assessment, would it be now if you interpret it that way, you would now be with this procedure in case it were to negatively stop the possibility of considering this Law and that's what the dilemma is. Here I am perhaps a little, as I would say, not legally interpreting it, but essentially, it's an interpretation. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24838	Okay, thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24839	Thank you very much. First of all, this is very clear to me, I don't know what's unclear. The key word is "i.e." in this article, which says – when the College of the House receives an explanation of the opinion of the Constitutional Commission or of the competent commission on the draft law resulting from which the Commission did not establish compliance with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. it did not adopt the principles. So either one or the other. The second thing, to go back specifically to the situation that I was, is that we accepted the constitutional basis at the first session of the Commission and rejected the principles. If so, as a colleague interprets, then what did we vote again at the second session on the constitutional basis? And we voted on the second again on the constitutional basis and rejected the constitutional basis. So it's more than clear that it's all together, so the constitutional basis, uh, and the principles are completely one whole and any part not to be accepted is considered not to have adopted the law. That's it, I get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24840	Okay, thank you. 69 So all this is said is fine, I said, what he remarked about the SBB Club is fine, so I didn't say anything that was wrong, I didn't specify at all what was rejected by constitutional basis, and what was rejected by principles, but I realized that twice the Constitutional Commission refused the proposal, and that's how it stands. Reported no more. I'm closing the hearing at this point. Point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-697/18, of 07.03.2018 (first reading) The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 09.03.2018. As competent to consider the bill, the House College has been appointed by the Constitutional Board. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 18 April 2018, the Commission laid down the principles of the draft law and compliance with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. I'm opening a debate. Niko one signed up for a hearing. I'm closing the argument at point 8. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law supplementing the Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1-762/18, since 16/03/2018, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24843	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24844	Ambassador Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24845	Maybe now this is an anachronous in this pre-election time for someone to talk about education and sports, who else in this country is interested, but anyway. I have to put out my disappointment that this matter has been treated as anti-constitutional and against the law, and it's totally amazing to me and that besides that no one will take any sanctions against me, because I am acting against the Constitution and against the law. How can I act against the Constitution and against the law if there is a law and if there is a fact that a European accreditation agency has come up with an incredible answer, who no one in this country is interested in and who is not interested in and a terriblely bad situation in education, and we are not showing a minimum desire to try to fix the situation in higher education, not to talk about education in general. These are really amazing things. That's why I don't think it's good how you treat it, like a college that has the exclusive right to interpret the Rules of Procedure in the way you interpret it, that this is quite something that's treated like an anti-constitutional. I don't know why you let it get around this ravine if it's against the Constitution and against the law. Here is only the proposal to supplement this Law with existing categories that already exist in the Law, to take the opportunity to prepare the application seriously, I apologize if I disturb you, I apologize if I disturb you, I can wait, to prepare a future application for higher education accreditation in Bosnia and Herzegovina for accreditation in the European Association. This would certainly fix this, of course, would not improve the situation in higher education, but would open up an opportunity to show clearly to the institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina that Parliament wants to discuss the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to higher education. Nothing else, I was even, even after a colleague drew attention to me, that a member who was in the previous proposal was not well because he was asked by lower institutions, lower levels of government to inform the BiH Parliament about the implementation of this Law, as well as the Bologna Process, and thus to gain full insight into the state of education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the article I kicked out and went into procedure with this new proposal. And I really ask you to show so much understanding for this problem which is extremely significant and that Parliament shows that it wants to discuss these things you and to take care of this higher education, because it is directly addressed, directed in this way to care for the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that young generations are not looking for a way to educate outside of this country. Well, please, rarely does a child professor from the university study here, everyone knows that this is a completely problematic situation and that it is not a compliment to study at universities in Bosnia and Herzegovina today and therefore go out and give everyone a little more understanding to show a little more concern, and not just worry about, here's to say, these other things that concern us personally, which thinns us personally. I think that would be extremely serious and extremely correct on our part.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24846	Okay, thank you. Just to tell you, the College has nothing to do with the rejection of your law, it's the Constitutional Commission. Discussion, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24847	Thank you. We are now under this item of the agenda discussing the negative opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, so the agenda point and it is said – the draft law with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. And this is the first time in this House we've discussed negative opinion by the Constitutional Commission on compliance with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system, that's a fact. At the previous House session, we discussed 71 negative opinions of the Constitutional Legal Commission when it comes to the principles of the Law, and we only did it once, and when it comes to constitutional law, we only discussed it once. I'd just ask my colleagues not to win.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24848	Mr. Arnaut, this is the 9th point, you're talking about, the debate on the 7th point is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24849	I know, I'm talking about... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24850	Well, it's not the same, it's the first time, it's the first time rejected, you're talking about the second rejection.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24851	I'm talking about the previous point, I'm talking about, and now I'm coming to what's the point of this discussion. And while we were at the previous point, Džaferović tells you, while Professor Đonlagić explains the business issue, his colleague Džaferović speaks – let's move on. This was clearly heard in the microphone and I am asking the service to treat it as my intervention of violations of the Rules of Procedure and that my intervention along with the stenogram, where counterpart Džaferović, means that the page where he says "let's move on" to enter the minutes from this session. Because that's what we're going to do next is we're going to have a relationship to the spot and education in this country. Now I'm coming to this part of the agenda, you can't warn me anymore about not keeping the agenda, so far I haven't been following it now. When it comes to education, yesterday, we did have a situation on the Constitutional Commission where the Commissioner even told Professor Đonlagić that she did not listen to him as he explained the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education and then we have a negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission on Consistency with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we are talking about a bill that is not a new law at all, but it is about amendments and additions to the existing law that is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina because it is, as such, in force, and it is only about the repairs of what has been shown in practice that it does not work. And no one comes from the point of view that Bosnia and Herzegovina, you can no longer say, falls on a scale of the quality of colleges and other higher education institutions, we are no longer on any scale, and on any scale we are no longer education in Bosnia and Herzegovina in this situation because such issues are being approached with the mantra – let's move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24852	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Deputy Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24853	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I'm really trying not to get into polemics, and I know that Mr. Arnaut would love to have controversy with me, but I'm trying not to get in with him into the polemics of any kind. I 72 know that he keeps watching my moves, and he hears what he shouldn't hear, because when we consult here at the pay phone, it's our consultation, and I know there's a reason why he shouldn't hear it, I've talked about it a few times here. It is a situation that is quite clear in the Rules of Procedure, and if anything is a problem, Mr Arnaut, then the problem is, then the problem is not with Šefik Džaferović towards sport, but rather with you in relation to the meetings of the Constitutional Commission. Last time or before last time on the Constitutional Commission this Law was given constitutional basis, and it did not get principles, we could hear it here at Parliament's session, to remind ourselves a little bit, and yet you have again the constitutional basis in the last session of the Commission put on the vote and he has not received support. So much for how much work is being followed and how much work is being done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24854	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24855	Pointed to Mr. Džaferović. We now have one finding here that the MP elected in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly hears, he quotes -- he hears what he shouldn't hear. How much transparency there is, and Mr. Džaferović speaks of something that is part of the public discourse, he says – The College is consulted, and the representative hears what should not be heard. So if someone isn't following, if you're watching the microphone, if you already think I shouldn't hear anything, then you should pay attention to whether or not your microphone is on or off. As far as the Constitutional Commission sessions are concerned, you have the right to take business intervention and the Constitutional Commission meetings, it is only a matter of whether you have ever followed what happened at the Constitutional Commission session or if you were thinking about it, but you did not have anyone next to you to whom you could say – let's move on. But I do find it unacceptable from the point of view of democratic principles, from the point of view of transparency, that a member of the College says that an MP, for what is said in the chairs on which members of the College sit, that MPs hear what they should not hear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24856	Thank you. Discussion, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24857	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. When a man discusses these issues, and especially when it comes to education, he would have to be very careful, including us who are called House of Representatives or those who are directly elected by, to say so, the peoples, not the peoples, but the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because in this way we do, determine and direct fate, not more of us, we outgrown it, but their children, these young generations. On many occasions I talked about schooling here, giving more examples, now I'm not playing with examples, but I'm just going to ask you – what about getting married to kids who are getting schooled, and what schools can't use? And then reading this explanation I'm 73 wondering where I'm sitting. So, the Commission, with 3 votes in favour of, 3 votes against, without abstention, did not find the proposal for a framework law to be in conformity. It does not comply with Article XI. The Constitution does not comply with Article XXIII of Chapter 7, indent 3(5) does not comply with aneks i, aneks III, aneks vii.. This seems to be what we can do, in this colossal sense, to determine ourselves in this House and on these committees as to who is cheered up and who is who, and not what it is in the constitutional order. It's very strange that when you go with the law on amendments and amendments to the law you don't propose the law at all, you find that it's not, there's no constitutional Mr. Foundation. Does this mean that the Framework Law that we already have is anti-constitutional? If that's the case, let's move towards the Constitutional Court to bring down that law, the constitutionality assessment. How is it possible that we do not want to approach the community of higher education or university, or whatever you want, institutions that unite in the finality of the European system. Obviously, we have big problems, big problems because in the creation of this, to call it, a democratic society has also created a huge number of those who have extremely profited, under the supposed signs of knowledge, that is to say, to use this mahalian language of ours, the stuttering of diplomas, the stamping of master's degrees, and believe me, the stuttering of the doctorate. Come in, you all know that, type in these newly created doctors, so you're looking for where their work in some nomenclature is some library, some institute, somewhere, not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it should be out of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's interesting you don't have any anywhere. You type someone with, I don't know, the University of Zagreb you find him – the French National Library, that and that number, by that and that number, there, there, there, you have him. You enter the National Library of her kingdom you find it. You don't have ours from Bosnia and Herzegovina anywhere. Shall we make this land a land of hopelessness? Dear gentlemen, we are all traveling, what the people say going away, and the question is the day when the one above us will lift up the ramp and say – come, move to this side. There's still youth. We're burying the future of youth, we're taking them here to the path of hopelessness. If that's our goal, then it's wise that we don't meet here. What are we actually doing? That in Sarajevo today you have countless graduate lawyers from Sokoc, imagine an environment that has fewer inhabitants than Tito's street in Sarajevo [[the speaker is warned on time]] That's the size of a law school diploma. [[the speaker is warned on time]] We're going to the future, we're going to the European Union. fast and large steps. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24858	Thanks for the discussion, Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24859	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I think it is necessary to say a few words on this subject, because unfortunately the institutions responsible for education in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not show an interest in doing, making, passing laws, correcting negatives, simply harmonising obligations and needs both because of Bosnia and Herzegovina and because of the process of European integration. I will remind you that I have recently, it seems to me that it was February, asked the Ministry of Civil Affairs for information on the reasons for not accepting our Agency for Accreditation and Development of Higher Education in ENQA, it is the European Higher Education Development Agency. There the ENQA listed a few very important, I can say the essentials freely, it even mentioned the political influence, this, which, behold, should be removed in the next two-year period so that our Agency is reapplicating. What are the consequences of that we were talking about then, not to repeat it, but the Ministry of Civil Affairs has done nothing about it. Hyde for not respecting me as an MP and a promoter of one, requesting such information, does not respect education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and 74 are therefore in one of these situations. The area of education, the education system is in a very difficult and alarming situation, and precisely because we have not been able to, here, bring our Agency closer to the European Agency, and on a daily basis, here when we get up, we talk about the European path, about the desire to enter. Therefore, simply put, the Council of Ministers, especially in the last period, and so far it has done nothing, are mostly some travels, pictures, stories, demagogues, and the essential things that this country is being dragged forward into the European Union are not being resolved. The system, the segment of education, is just one small detail in all this story that the Council of Ministers is supposed to solve. Now, unfortunately, there's no one from the Department of Civil Affairs that we can take advantage of today's opportunity to say, uh, here's the information we didn't make for that and that reason. It's not just the responsibility of the ministry, it's not just the Agency's responsibility, it's the responsibility of the Management Board and a couple of very important subjects in that story. But what I've been seeing lately, since I'm a little concerned with this problem, no one is interested in the accreditation of institutions anymore. They're going to start a story of accreditation of education programs, they're going to get into this story, and what we have 26 universities today, which in some small municipalities we have six legal, economic, etc., colleges, which is precisely why in public colleges, because of the existence of one such hyperproduction of the university, is all about human beings, which is the quality of education very bad, which looks like no one in this country is worried or needy, they don't need to solve it. When I say no one thinks of the authorities that are currently active. And this is one of the very important things that we should raise a little bit as an important problem, because education is one of the pillars of society, and it collapses more and more every day. I thank Mr. Đonlagić for his initiative and when it comes to the Sport Act, when it comes to this initiative about this Law, which is strong, recognized the problem and somehow tried to convince us all that the problem exists and that we are trying to solve it. However, we are challenging him today, not allowing, uh, someone invented that it is not constitutional, that there is no constitutional basis, we all know that in the process of education through framework laws are defined and basic postulates in the state, which is further transferred to lower levels of government, to Republika Srpska's entity, to cantons, etc. We know all this well, and we have no right to say then that this legal solution has no constitutional basis. What I would, if we were to enter into this story, and that would exchange an opinion with Professor Đonlagić, I think the need to form a university chamber that in a very important way, in my opinion, would eliminate [[the speaker is warned on time]] politics and impacted the selection of personnel in both education and... the system within the university and university. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you, Chairman, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24860	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24861	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have a negative report on the agenda, we do not have a situation in higher education. If any of our colleagues want us to discuss higher education, let them suggest on the agenda this point, prepare materials, and discuss the situation in higher education. Here is the report on the agenda, the Commission's negative report, and it was negative when it comes to constitutional law. And in that sense, the discussions must go, whether or not someone thinks they are, etc., but we cannot discuss how important it is to have a better quality higher education. So we all understand here what the quality of our higher education is and what we expect from higher education and what high education we would like. But gentlemen today it's not on the agenda. I'm asking the chairman that the discussions that are not going in this direction are not business, that you interrupt them.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24862	Thank you. Discussion, Fehim Škaljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24863	Thank you. I will not address you, I address the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose will I have here as well as you. Today again in this House and regarding this item of the agenda formalism is more important than your needs... than the knowledge which opens up the future and education that... The good intentions of pro-fessor Đonlagić, whose life experience in education is rich, are here today, respected citizens, come down in shape, not looking for answers to how that form does not stop us. [[You don't understand.]] And it's not just that. For this reason, you can conclude that this Parliament is not committed to you and your need, but to your internal relations and red tape that becomes a essence. And today regarding this item of the agenda, what is an auxiliary to the work of a single body of legislation becomes the essence of this work. Both the Rules of Procedure, and the principles, and the basics become a reason to eliminate what should be the need for citizens, not to seek a solution that will allow it. It does not have to go through today, and you today conclude that you do not want to discuss what Professor Đonlagić said, but also you and all of us will skip and turn to the path that is necessary, it is a civilization and flow, knowledge, participation in the ability of the individual and life from work. We have to be responsible for that. Today, not only through this, but through the whole debate, it turns out that our speech towards the citizens is low.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24864	Thank you. The debate, Mr. Đonlagić. She was the first one to propose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24865	I really wouldn't be taking up your precious time right now and discussing the metrics, but I'd ask you something for everyone in this room, I can't live with the fact that I acted against the law. It's something amazing, that the life issues of young people and the need for this country to care for its future, and my insistence is exactly that it's against the law and that it's anti-constitutional. I don't want to support the law, and I don't have to explain it. No Niko makes anyone explain why they won't support something, but don't let one of these categorizations of an extremely serious issue be done – it's not considered because it doesn't comply with the Constitution and it doesn't comply with the law. Now, please don't just let that happen, and, look, I don't appeal at all to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24866	Thank you. Mirsad Isaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24867	I thank the chairman. Well, my colleagues already said everything they had to say. So our view together is that this is one of the most important, so today in society is one of the most important topics to be discussed and which should certainly be put in the right place, because education is the future of this country. And therefore, if we think about the future, we must also think about education. But I would only ask one question, if the Constitutional Commission had already given this opinion, I know it's not common, but I would like to know what is constitutionally, contrary to the proposed law. It is simply that we cannot reconcile with the fact that something is against the constitution, that it is not in line with the constitutional principles of what is, therefore, a very good intention and what is certain for this country and the perspective of this country. Here, thank you, just so much, so we can complete our engagement on this matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24868	Thank you. We don't have any more charges to discuss. This concludes the debate at point 9. We're going to Dot 10, Ad. Ten. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-02-1-1830/17, since 27.03.2018 The law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law was adopted at the extension of the 53rd session of the House of Representatives, held on 14.12.2017, and at the 36th session of the House of People, held on 20.02.2018. The law was adopted in homes in different texts, and the Joint Commission was formed both at home to achieve the same text of the Law. The Joint Commission submitted Report 29/03/2018. The Commission agreed on the identical text of the Law on Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina that it was adopted in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on MP Nikola Špirić's position to include a new item in the 59th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which reads: "The Security Status in Bosnia and Herzegovina in connection with the alarming statements of BiH Minister of Security Dragan Mektić", issue: 01-50-1-793/18, since 21.03.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24872	Thank you, Chairman. Very short. I think we should all get an answer here together why there's no one commission report here today in front of the MPs, it's a report on the work of the Joint Commission on Security Intelligence. I think it would be correct to go through that area too, because we should say that we have, so another commission that isn't treated in this agenda. I think we should get an adequate explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24873	All right. I'm closing point 12. Moving to point 13,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24874	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24875	There's no one reported for questioning. So point 13,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24876	I asked the College of the House of Representatives – which is why there is no report at today's session on the work of the Joint Committee on Oversight over the OSA, and there are all other reports on today's agenda, all the joint committees of both homes. Could we get an answer? The only thing I'm asking is, can you give us an answer as to why there is no such report?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24877	Well, here I am going to give you an answer. So, the Commission didn't deliver the report. If she had delivered it, it would have been on the agenda. Point 13, Hazim Rančić, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24878	Dear colleagues and colleagues, with all due respect, when you move to the agenda point, then the debate is on the agenda point, not on whether there is something or not. We could have talked about it when we set up the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24879	Okay, thank you. I'm closing point 12. We're going to point 13, Ad. 13. Report on the work of the Committee of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the Parlame of BiH for 2017: (a) Report on the work of the Commission to prepare him for the election of the Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01/7-50-3-140-8/18, of 17.01.2018, (b) Report on the work of the Commission for Transport and Communications, issue: 01-50-19-2975/17, of 18.01.2018, c) Report on the work of the Constitutional Commission, issue: 01/1-50-19-224/18 of 30.01.2018, d) Report on the work of the Commission for the achievement of gender equality, issue 01/6-50-19-224/18, from 06.02.2018, e) report on the work of the Commission for finance and the budget, No 01-50-574/18, of 22.02.2018, from 22.2018.2018. Reports on the work of the permanent committees of the House for 2017 have been delivered to you earlier. I'm opening a debate. 79 Discussion, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24881	I thank the chairman. Well, here, looking at, therefore, the previous point and this point is quite clear that the commissions acted in accordance with Rule 32 (2) of the Rules of Procedure which says - the Commission submits a report to the House once a year on work. So, all the commissions except the OSA Labour Control Commission, which is probably the most sensitive commission, especially since it is the only commission whose establishment, existence and operation, mode of work, prescribed by law and not only by the Rules of Procedure. It is the only one of all and collective and temporary whose existence and operation is prescribed by law. Now, all these commissions, I know by my own, were delivering reports at different intervals, and then the Dom united, when he got all the reports united it and put it like these two consecutive points of the agenda. Otherwise, we had the conditions to individually discuss the various reports of the commission as they arrived, right. I know that one commission delivered the report in January, mine, I think, in February, some in March, but the College obviously decided to wait for all the reports, to unite them and put them together on the agenda, right, otherwise we would have them concedingly at different sessions of the House. Now, the College didn't, the College waited for everyone else but for some reason it seemed he decided not to wait for this report on the work of the Committee on Oversight over the work of the OSA, resulting in the College's not expecting him to ever get it, otherwise he would have acted as in accordance with the practice of waiting until everything was bought and put on the agenda. Now, here's the question...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24882	Mr. Arnaut, this thing about the joint committees of both Houses was the previous point where the topic was. These are special, so I warn you not to adhere to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24883	Ama, I know Mr. Bosić and you and Mr. Rančić, or your parties, it's in the interest that the OSA has no control, but don't move all this, uh, over again. Because, look, the Commission is not overseeing the work of the OSA, this House is not overseeing the work of the Commission because we do not have a report, which means our Intelligence Agency is acting without any control, without any control. And now I, I insist, I stick to the agenda, I notice that six committees of the House of Representatives delivered their reports at intervals of over three months, and you as a College have not delivered to the House for consideration of how they arrived, you have already waited for everyone to arrive and then put them together, and you did not do so on a commission matter. That's why I'm sticking to this agenda. This point shows me that you are not expecting a report from the Commission to monitor the work of the OSA. So this is really where the question arises whether or not the College...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24884	Mr. Arnaut, you're really knowingly violating the Vice President and you know it. The point has passed, and if the monitoring committee's report arrives, it will be put on this Parliament afterwards. So, don't...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24885	...you're not following me at all. Here, I am now asking you about this item of the agenda at which we are now, the six reports of the House of Representatives Commission why we did not discuss the Commission's report on traffic delivered in January at the January session, and then the Constitutional Legal Commission report at the February session, etc., but waited for you to unite them all. Given that you have not done so on the subject of the previous point, it indicates that you do not expect to ever receive in this mandate a report from the Commission on the monitoring of the work of the OSA, resulting in this OSA having no parliamentary supervision. I'm telling you, man, about such a serious threat to Bosnia and Herzegovina's security, you're warning me here to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24886	Well, I'm not a man for you, I think I'm for you, I can be a colleague, I can be an MP, and I'm a chairman, but I think that according to the Codex we refer to each other. Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24887	Thank you very much. Dearly esteemed coalition pen, colleague Arnaut, you said you knew what my goal was and what was right for me. I have to be responsible to say that you don't know that, because I didn't tell you that. According to all and one body of our House, whether it's a joint or a committee of the House alone, I act in a way that respects the Rules of Procedure and their position in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And, of course, I also respect the OSA's work surveillance commission, and I voted in favour of that Commission, and I know that there should be an opposition chairman there. And, here, you suggest and see if I vote for that, here's the new chairman of the Commission. We know that the previous chairman has been changed and we know how the SNSD colleagues have handled this issue. Of course, the Commission can work, have its first and second deputies as well as other committees, can hold its meetings, but regardless of all this I support choosing both the president and the opposition. And you're the only one who can suggest and you'll see if I vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24888	Okay, Mr. Rančić, just so you know, that the Commission chooses its own president, we have nothing to do with it. Correction of the wrong quote, Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24889	I thank the chairman. I appreciate that I can bear the responsibility of breaking the Rules of Procedure, but you've come very quickly across the previous agenda and let me just say a few things. We do not know today whether the Security Intelligence Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina has parliamentary supervision. Furthermore, we are witnessing that such a commission is breaking the law and that today it is working contrary to the law. It is not correct your argument when you say that the Commission has not delivered a report and therefore it will not be on the agenda today, as well, which may be reckless, to say if the Commission delivers and when it delivers will be on the agenda. Well, I guess Parliament is choosing this Commission, I guess Parliament is looking for parliamentary oversight of the Intelligence Security Agency, and I guess it's... to get a report. I, please, parliamentary oversight of OSA-81 is not something we can play with, the Intelligence Security Agency is not some institution, not some organization that is of some secondary importance. We in Parliament today do not have a report on the Commission's work for 2017, and we know that the Commission's work also treats the law and we know that today the Commission is working past legal solutions. And will we cross and wait if the Commission ever delivers or doesn't deliver? I think it is inconclusive, here it should be insisted that the Commission submit a report and, of course, to enter further debate when it comes to only funkc ionisation, and form, and the way parliamentary surveillance of the Intelligence Security Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24890	So here we insist that the Commission deliver a report. I ask the Commission to submit a report to discuss it here at the House, and I strongly insist that you submit the report. And this is amazing indeed, I think that people, that MPs are getting up and starting their discussion, I know that I'm violating the Rules of Procedure and continuing the discussion. So from now on, whoever crosses, who breaks the Rules of Procedure, I will take away his word, at this point. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24891	I'm not going to break the Rules of Procedure, I just wanted to, before you said so yourself, to warn you that here you allow us not to observe the agenda. We don't have a story report here, so we're talking about something that's not there. Everyone has their own members, most of the parties here, can also address them and ask them – a fellow respected why you did not adopt a report on the work of the Commission. And then the importance of this Commission shows those who boycott her work, we come up with absurd situations. So I'm asking you not to lead the pits... on something we don't have here.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24892	Thank you. No adherence to the established agenda, Senad Šepić. Here you go. If it's the same subject, can I ask you to...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24893	I want to help people. People have 12 reports, and you're discussing 13 of which we don't have any material at all. Take any of these 12, say something about this, and thank you for inviting the Commission to deliver this 13, the chairman, so when something comes, we'll tell him about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24894	Thank you. Do not adhere to the established agenda, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24895	Well, what I'm saying is that this has to end regardless of the fact that there's no report, we have to at least figure something out on that subject. The responsibility of those who contributed that we don't have a report here today doesn't matter and should. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24896	Mrs. Majkić, it is indeed a misrepresentation of the application to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24897	I'm a person who adheres to the Rules of Procedure and I never abuse it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24898	You do not adhere to the established agenda because you are talking about a subject that was two points ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24899	If that was true of everything, you can let me say two or three sentences about it too, just because you have an obligation to say it because you are, which is your client's fault for what happened. So it's your fault that this commission has lost its chairman. But that's not the scariest thing, it's the scariest thing we've got two deputies, not one of them tried to make us get the report. There's no reason why there's no chairman because we don't have a report. So, we should perhaps discuss this, just to develop a discussion on the subject, which is why those who have suggested that Mr. Špirić be removed from the chairmanship of the Commission, is their wish fulfilled that we are now not in control of Intelligence and are not at the level of the director, agency director. Who cares if this country runs out of all the key things when it comes to security? Obviously, someone cares, and that's why we need to talk about this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24900	Thank you. Correction of the false quote, Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24901	I'm the one who answered to correct the wrong quote of a colleague of the Rančić that you've already corrected. So we can't choose here the chairman of the Joint Committee to oversee the work of the Intelligence Security Agency because it has to be done by the Committee, I'm aware of what the agenda is, because it has to be done by the Committee. I'm standing up here as a member of this committee because no other member has stood up to say that the Committee is not working and is not meeting. And it's very important to say at least at this point on the agenda. I am competent to say this because I have given the College an initiative, the guilt of why this Committee does not meet this House, not the House of Peoples, I have instructed the initiative to re-election the members of the Committee here in accordance with both the Rules of Procedure of this House and the Intelligence Agency Act. This initiative has not been accepted,...probably Dom, I did not point it out at this House for several reasons, and this time I am notifying the House, I feel responsible because there is no such report, not for the formal reason that the reports are not there, but for the very essential reasons of the Committee's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24902	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24903	I've heard here that there's no surveillance of the Intelligence Service, because one man is not in charge of the Service, so there's no surveillance. The Commission has 12 members, so 12 members, I'm surprised these other 11 members are allowing themselves not to meet for a year. They shall have an executive of the duties of the Chairman-in-Office of the Commission. Who is responsible because there is no oversight, those who need to exercise oversight and do not meet and do not do anything wrong, or those who have been removed, or those who have replaced them? A complete replacement of thesis. The Commission exists, has 12 members, has the acting chair and has not, is not doing its job. If that's the case, then let's replace the Commission completely. As far as he was concerned, he was no better even when he was a different Commission, he was the same way. How many times has the Bog of this kind of surveillance met you? Otherwise, it would all seem to us that we are different... this Commission. Don't replace my men's weights.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24904	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24905	Pointed to Mr. Bosić. I can't help but believe that you just gave the chairman a serious problem that we have, uh, which is the fact that the Commission doesn't sit down, it doesn't control the OSA, and this today shows that the House has no control over the Commission. And as for the warning about the alleged violation of the agenda, I remind you that I am sticking to this point at which we are now. I notice at this point, on the basis of this point that the College has waited very consciously to get all the reports of the committees of this House and only then united them all and put them as one item of the agenda. And on the basis of this fact, I ask the question – why did the College not act equally on the matter of the previous agenda? Why didn't the College act on the previous point as it did on this point at which we are now, which I'm talking about? Because if you were hunting in principle, then, like at this point at which we have now waited, at the previous point, you would wait for all the reports and put them all together. And indeed, it cannot be taken from this impression, it is the only logical conclusion that you, as a College, do not expect, at least not recently, that you will receive a report on the work of the Commission to monitor the work of the OSA, and that there is a huge concern that the Commission will not even submit a report in this mandate and that the Intelligence Agency will continue to act without any parliamentary supervision. In every serious country, it would be a huge problem, and here, the chairman of this House, the question is characterized by two or three times theatrics saying, "Here, I'm urging, I'm scrambling, so here I quote you, I don't even caricate you here, instead of seriously dealing with this issue as a College." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24906	Thank you. So, I don't caricate anything, I really, as chairman, expect the committee to deliver their reports because it's their business duty. Let me remind you that this House has voted on its representatives in all committees, that the commissions are the same as the MPs from which they are composed, independent bodies, that the only influence on that commission may be to propose a commission or members of the committee here unless they are satisfied with his work. We didn't have that, and this isn't the agenda point of any commission. If anyone has a proposal to replace the commission, have them freely deliver it as a parliamentary initiative and then we'll discuss 84. So April is the month, we're talking about the 2017 Commission Report. April of the month is a decent time to wait for all the reports to come. Apparently, the commission, one of the commissions didn't do it, it's clear why. I expected the Vice-President of the Commission to do the job unless there was a chairman. It didn't happen, and we have this situation that we have. I don't know what the debate is about, here, lasts more than half an hour around with the obvious stuff. Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24907	Thank you very much. So I was thinking of selecting the 12th member of this Commission. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Chosen? They shall choose between themselves the amendments, and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure prescribe that the quorums of decision, Article 54, the Commission, both with 11 and with 10 and with nine, and eight, and seven members may work. So the quorum is seven members and I can work very effectively on any matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24909	Thank you. Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24910	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests. When the current story of the Commission chairman's shift was, I also said that unfortunately the problems would come only later, not because Nikola Špirić is chairing the Commission, but because this Parliament has entered into a violation of the law. The law is older than any MP, and the law decidently states that the chairman of the Intelligence and Security Agency must be a member of the strongest opposition party, the strongest opposition. Now it can be taken out and elected by any opposition, etc., from less, this, those, but still in violation of the law. And once the law is broken, you learn, it's hard to go back and it's gonna be hard to get out of this situation, and it's gonna be hard to get out of this situation, and it's gonna stay, my colleague, my fellow respected, he said well -- the Commission doesn't meet, he doesn't meet. She has a deputy, a colleague named Bariša Čolak, as far as I know, for a month. It's not man's fault, it's been a month. So, we have a serious problem because Parliament was doing revenge, and when you do something out of revenge, then you get a problem only with a little delay. And that's why I think this needs to be dealt with a little more seriously than the formal report on the work of the Commission, etc. So, we broke the law and we're still breaking that law, because then there was a little more love between these parliamentary majority ad hoc, so Parliament, by the number of hands, can relieve a member, but can't choose a president, and the law decadently writes - must come from the strongest opposition party, read the SNSD. Whoever else you choose, you break the law. _________(?) 85 [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. So, then, let's not accuse the members of the Commission. So Parliament has broken the law and remains in violation of the law. Thank you. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24912	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, vice president, Borjan Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24913	I'm actually going to try to answer it in some way, and it's about correcting the wrong allegation of what the esteemed colleague Damir Arnaut said. Probably, so I went out to explain myself, listened carefully to him stressing twice why we did not have and how the College treated the agenda of these points. I want to say that in terms of this, I understand you well, so we as the College have not discussed when we will put the report, from which committee, on the agenda, it must have been done by service in some regular practice like when they get all the reports and deliver them to us or prepare them for this session, as it was now. And as for the report, so, the Intelligence Security Commission as a joint committee, it must be a big mistake that we don't have this report, but it's a situation, and I agree with all the MPs who spoke in that sense, it's this House thing. And that's why I came out to tell you, what my colleague Kožul said, he submitted a proposal for a agenda item to discuss this House, to find a solution so that, among other things, we could have a report, as well as democratic control over one such commission, or one such important agency. With the opposition of the other two members of the College, with my insistence that we put it on the agenda, we did not get the will and I informed Commissioner Kozul that they did not want the other two members of the College. Afterwards, I heard a variety of speculations in the media from the representatives I see here, how, why, etc., now I am here publicly and clearly telling you why someone does not want to open a debate on such an important issue, and as regards, among other things, security in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24914	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24915	... has already allowed non-resistance of the agenda, then and I must m respond to the incorrect allegations that have been made here. First, it is true that the law states that the chair seat belongs to the strongest opposition page, so it does not write anyone's name and name and no one is a party. I guess all parties have a little more members, especially those parliamentary ones. So SNSD had a chance to replace one name to another. 86 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I ask you to provide me with peace and quiet, without being thrown out of place.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24917	Please discipline. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24918	Secondly, if there was a violation of the law, there was one, so that's exactly why we replaced one member. When someone misused his position to send the intelligence agency conclusions that had not been adopted by the previous U.S. Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24919	Thank you. Salko Sokolović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24920	Well, thank you, Chairman. I will just take a few sentences on the second subject, and that is precisely this Constitutional Commission, which, in my opinion, was the greatest braker of the coming legal solutions to this Parliament, by its own relationship. And through the work of the Finance and Budget Committee, I became convinced through a few laws, and through the agendas and negative opinions that we had and, behold, specifically now, about these two laws by Mr. Đonlagić, sports and education, is evidence of this story. I am not sure that the Constitutional Commission has the right other than the constitutional basis to consider the principles of the law, and it has also adopted its position on the principles of the law in every legal solution. It would be the same if we were in other committees, and even though the Constitutional Commission adopted the constitutional basis, we found ourselves saying, uh, let's first see if there's a constitutional and legal basis, no matter what the Commission has done, so let's see what the measure is now, and we'll talk about it, etc. I think that, uh, I'm talking about the work of committees, however, in the next period, when it comes to this Commission, it's a little bit serious, that it's dealing with a really constitutional-legal base, but not in a way that is considering constitutional-legal basis, whether it's in the interest of a particular political entity, coalition, opposition, etc., so that it determines a constitutional basis, but rather on the basis of those things that are defined in the Constitution of this country, whether that is, so that constitutional basis was justified or unwarranted in the sense that we see the adoption of that law. If this is defined in the Constitution of this country, there is nothing the Constitutional Commission can invent hot water and in some way, and this can be shown in a few very important examples, it has disputed the laws that had constitutional basis. Well, that's my objection to the Constitutional Commission's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24921	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. Here you go. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24922	Just for a little while. Mrs. Krišto, it is incomprehensible for me that the services are preparing the agenda, the Rules of Procedure is very clear, uh, that it is the excessive responsibility of the College and the chief chairperson at a given time, and especially something like OSA should not be left to the services. As far as Mr Salke Sokolović is concerned about the Constitutional Commission, I do not understand this, of course, as a criticism of me, as the chairman, but the Commission's decisions which are often negative about confirming compliance with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, however, I can indeed say responsibly that the situation would be significantly improved if counterpart Senad Šepić and counterpart Željko Komšić were to attend meetings of the Constitutional Legal Commission a little more frequently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24923	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate on the 13th agenda. We're going to the 14th point, Ad. 14. Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, material number: 05/7-50-19-555/18, since 21.02.2018 The House College has been designated by the Joint Committee on Human Rights as responsible for reviewing the report. The competent Commission delivered its opinion on 17 April 2018. The Commission unanimously adopted the Report. I'm opening a debate. No reports, Momčilo Novaković, discussed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24925	Thank you very much. I have here, uh, an interesting paragraph on page five that says – since the four-year mandate of the Council expired on 18.09.2017 from that date the Council is working in a technical mandate. We have adopted here a new council council that did not adopt the House of Nations, so we do not have a new council today. Can anyone at all at this level work in a technical mandate? As far as I know, the law here doesn't know the institution of the technical mandate, so neither can the Council of National Minorities work in a technical mandate. It is simple that this report, when the Commission discussed and accepted unanimously, I had to reject this sentence – to work in the technical mandate, rather than continue to work until the election of a new Council of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24926	Thank you. 88 Borislav Bojić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24927	Just for a little while. You're absolutely right, that kind of correction is very logical, this, therefore, should be said that we have asked this question to the Commission itself and we have offered several options. However, there was no mood with the members of the Commission, whether from the existing composition we try to reach agreement on the election of the Council of National Minorities, there was no agreement on the re-election of the Council of National Minorities, or any other solution that we had before us. Since this is how it ended on the Commission, we left it for the next session, simply to inform other parliamentarians who are not members of this Joint Commission. And what you said is very logical, because just like that... there is no one technical mandate, but it will divide everything until a new Council of National Minorities is chosen.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24928	Thank you. We don't have any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 15. Ad. 15. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-565/18, of 22.02.2018 You got the report. The Dom College has been designated by the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH as competent to discuss the report. The competent Commission delivered its opinion on 05.04.2018. The Commission accepted the report and referred it to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate. Discussion, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24930	Here, I need to, I actually want to say a few words about this report. He needs to tell us about the complaints and complaints of citizens coming to the work of police agencies and it's really interesting to look at that, in 2016, we had 132 zba, that in 2017 the number was reduced and that there were only 96, but it was symptomatic that the largest number of complaints, 81, had been filed against the border police officers, that only eight had arrived against the SIPA, and that only seven had come against the Police Coordination Directorate. Of these, I was afraid of some of these 81, 81 complaints that came interestingly that the Citizens' Board of Appeals accepted 70 reports, but more interestingly, out of those 70 only 14 were found to be the basis of the complaint. So here you see, of 81, 14 was founded and a request was filed for a disciplinary procedure against the appropriate police officers. It is also important to note the main objections to their work. The first is a report of corruption against border police officers, but it's a small number of applications, that's only seven. Another large group is inappropriate communication, brazen and unprofessional behaviour of police officers, 26 complaints. It's something that seems to me that we can get into order, I don't think there's a need for that kind of appeal to be to this extent, 26 complaints about inappropriate communication, impertinent and inappropriate behavior. I mean, that really sounds 89 amazing. The third group is also too long a stay at border crossings, and some specific controls are being introduced when crossing the border. So what it means is whether it's some kind of corruption, because that's how money is being extorted to get someone across the border faster or to stick around. Fourth, disregard for police officers' rules when carrying out border checks, so that's not a big, five complaints. But there is something this Parliament should deal with, which is – the recommendations and conclusions of the Committee that adopted both homes of the Parlamentary Assembly. So, since 2014. Every year, the Committee delivers recommendations on what we should do and adhere to what our mission is, and we do not. So imagine in 2014, so, at the beginning of our term, we had a conclusion that is not yet fulfilled, called on the Directorate for indirect taxation to access the conclusion of the House of Representatives which refers to the reconstruction of apparatus and video surveillance, replacing old appliances with new ones, and in collaboration with the Border Police to find an appropriate solution for non-functioning, i.e. the poor functioning of video surveillance over border crossings. It was adopted by both homes and by no one to fill those conclusions. So obviously there are some misunderstandings, someone had to be given this task to carry out. In 2015, both homes adopt, too, a conclusion called the Border Police, the State Investigation and Protection Agency and the Police Authorities Coordination Directorate, so that police officers who perform tasks of a particular kind do not allow social networks to publish data and information that is closely related to their work. Imagine you people on facebook and on Twitter are publishing things that are closely related to their professional work. And that's what we brought and forgot the moment we brought it. In 2016, all police agencies were asked to introduce a review of all police officers and then, one year, the Border Police on their cost, and the other agencies informed the Board of Appeals – we cannot do this, it is not foreseen by any document, and we will not do so accordingly, although it is said that the extent of the illness of certain police officers is a distraction in their work. And imagine you have a sick man working on such responsible jobs, Parliament adopts conclusions that no one holds, the Council of Ministers respects, so what does this look like? So, seriously, what we are suggested by the Board of Appeals in so far's work is something that we should respect and make us think that all these things that are contained in the Report again, that in a dignified way we should deal with and force those who exercise power in the Council of Ministers to finish this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24931	Thank you. Discussion, Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24932	Thank you, Your Honor. In fact, I've come to draw attention to a part of this report that shouldn't get away from our attention, and, by the way, to comment on the report itself. There are three agencies involving citizens' complaints. First of all, here is a colleague, Majkić, who has already said some statistics, of 59, realistically 59, some have been transferred, some have been transferred in 2018, some have been inherited from 2016, in fact there are 14 established, if I have counted well, let's say, and 14 related to the Border Police, in the SIPA- and eight, one has been accepted and forwarded to the conduct, in the Coordination Directorate, interestingly, one based complaint and it refers to the crossover of an official vehicle on a full line. Basically, if we put these numbers on paper, then it looks like we're in a good 90 state, no one complains or citizens have no practice, they don't need, they don't believe, who knows what, but they obviously don't complain. So then we have, I don't know, 12, what he says, it's stressed, after 17 hours of sitting, it's held 12, 56 points and the rest of what's in this. But I want to read this, if you allow me to sit down, because I can't see, I'm reading from this, just a moment, it's very illustrative, says – after a public debate has been held in a disciplinary procedure, it's about the Border Police, against the disciplinaryly accused police officer of that and that, who has found himself guilty of committing a more serious violation of the official duty of Article 105, etc. again, and it is defined as a behavior that violates the reputation of a police body because the judgment of the Municipal Court in Zenica finds it guilty of committing criminal acts in the proceedings and the criminal act of taking advantage of a child or a minor for pornography, beware, a police officer, and then a criminal act of violent conduct, from both the member and the crime of an easy physical injury, and the same court has suspended him on a single sentence of prison for one year and six months, she pornography and violent conduct, all together, if, of course, conditionally, if within two years she does not commit a criminal offence. Now, with that solution, a disciplinary officer, a police officer, was given a disciplinary penalty of 30% of the monthly salary of a police officer for five months, and he was freed of responsibility for committing a more difficult order, etc. Now, this one, this one, I find illustrative, is it possible, is it 30% of the salary for charges like this to remain a police officer? Generally, as regards the reports and the work of the Committee on Appeals, citizens are listed other activities. Under other activities, the Committee complains that due to the lack of funds in 2017, they did not visit any border crossings unlike in 2015 when they did so extensively. And I'm left with one question here, and it becomes questionable to me, and this is the other one's fault that there isn't, uh, what Mrs. Majkić said, video surveillance, and that, it doesn't have much to do with this, but it remains questionable, vaguely, why the Board of Appeals is even visiting border crossings, it's not clear to me, except to leave a little bit. There, so much, after reading this, I don't have much, they don't have much to do, and I don't have much to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24933	Thank you. The word was requested by the chairman of the Committee on Appeals of Citizens, who is the applicant of the Report, Mr Vjekoslav Vuković.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24934	Thank you. Honorable MPs, ladies and gentlemen. Here, thank you for giving me this opportunity to say a few sentences in front of you and to answer these questions. Respecting this time and shortness of my presentation, I will only look back on the questions of distinguished Vajzović MPs, so why we have visited the border crossings. Right now, a propo large number of complaints, we wanted to see what was happening at certain border crossings. Following this, we came to the conclusion that at most of the border crossings this famous video surveillance is not in the proper function, so there was this recommendation that we talked about, linking it to the fact that you noticed this case in our Report, thank you for reading the Report carefully. The essence of this Committee is working in the second degree, to get to know you transparently and publicly what is actually going on with certain officials and the disagreements of certain laws. In the particular case you're talking about, the situation is naturally very unfortunate because the police officer who commits the criminal act is suspended. 91 The deadline for completion and completion of the disciplinary procedure is nine months. This could take more than a year, two days. Accordingly, a disciplinary procedure is necessary to be suspended until the end of the criminal proceedings and you cannot conduct it. So what the colleagues in the Border Police said as a disciplinary measure, that was the maximum of what they could get out at a given time. Of course, today it is, the non-compliance of these laws and rules on disciplinary responsibility, the subject of an appeal before the Constitutional Court of BiH. I hope that this disagreement will avoid exactly what you were talking about and thank you for noticing this legal flaw. I thank you, too, for noticing this statistics when it comes to it, I am not a border police lawyer, so I speak on behalf of the Committee, 14 applications that have been established, which means that police officers are also sanctioned. The reason why there is no more is the inability to prove certain inadequate, illegal actions at the border crossing is because they refer to criminal acts of corruption that we cannot prove without adequate video surveillance. As for non-reporting, therefore, or improper behaviour of police officers, the Committee pointed to this fact so that a new, innovative, ethical code of conduct of police officers, especially the Border Police, was adopted again. When it comes to excessive detention at border crossings, it is a large number of controls. I'm just going to tell you that in 2017, BiH Border Police carried out 48 million inspections of citizens crossing the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 1,856 of them. It's one police officer for 23,000 controlled citizens, so there must be 90 applications. Be careful, therefore, that is a statistically large number of processed objects. In the further part, therefore, I thank you and we are aware of what the review of the conclusions made by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly have done to see where we are, because this is also the end of this Committee's mandate. I want to point out the fact that we're still on track, missing video surveillance, missing psych tests for certain police officers, medical examinations, still happening very traumatic situations of people carrying firearms. So, here, I thank you for recognising those conclusions. This is all I needed to say that you're right, and that's why we're doing this kind of report, and we're making you see strictly what's actually going on in certain agencies. When it comes to inappropriate behavior, it is, therefore, ethical codes. You know that each of the police officers lives and works today. Those who follow the presidents, ministers, you, the moment they sit in a police vehicle, they must have no credit, no wife, no mother, no sick child, they must think about who they are following and who they are guarding. It's a clear situation that there are life frustrations, which is why we pointed to medical examinations, controls, etc. Police agencies have amended their internal organisation and systematization regulations and have hired psychologists. Whether that's enough will show next time through practice. I thank you for your time, for giving me the opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24935	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Hanko Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24936	Actually, I have nothing else to answer for, but I have a need to ask, here, maybe now I don't expect an answer anymore, but reminding myself that there are, are these inspectors or what, in all the agencies, those who are doing internal control. So, do they conduct such disciplinary, according to the job description, disciplinary procedures? And on the other hand, what does this case mean for a disciplinary procedure that 92 can fine him 30%? We have a lot of other cases where there's a suspension and then the state pays, he doesn't work, then he complains eventually gets damage for I don't know what, suffered this or that, so there's opportunities like that. This is, in addition to what you stated, I'm surprised that anyone can punish someone with 30% five months of pay. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24937	Thank you. This concludes the 15th point. We're going to the 16th point, Ad. 16. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in the institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other penalties imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, the foreign courts provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, act No: 05/6-50-19-608/18, dated 26.02.2018. The House College has been designated by the Joint Committee on Human Rights as responsible for reviewing the report. The competent Commission delivered Opinion 17.04.2018. The Commission has adopted the report on the work of the Independent Commission with the first three recommendations set out in the Report and proposes its adoption to the House. I'm opening a debate. Dušanka Majkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24939	I have to say a few words, because we are at risk of this Independent Commission stopping working, and that means that we happen to lose one significant body that deals with the human rights of those who are in prison. I am the House of Representatives, i.e. the Parliamentary Assembly itself cooked a good part of it, so I will not talk about the situation in the two KPZs they visited at this time, in Zenica and Tuzla, although it should be noted that by the law prescribed 25 educators to one turned into 70 prisoners, instead of 25, 70 per teacher, it is alarming. And I'm not going to say anything new about that either if I say, so that's the biggest shortage, that there's a teacher and a guard shortage, and there's not too much to talk about what the lack of a guard means. But what we as Parliament could certainly do is to fix the situation in this Commission, to enable its smooth work. We have five members of the Commission, four of which are doctors of science, only one has no doctoral call in that commission. What did we do? By law, i.e. by decision of the Administrative Commission, we evaluated their work with 475 marks, and by the following conditions, that a member of the Independent Commission attends at least one session of the Independent Commission, let's have an argument here, which, as a rule, cannot be maintained during working hours. And now what does that mean? The commission visits prisons and gets there, should go there in the afternoon when there are no staff working there. That's her, fellow Arnaut, that bill change, we've had a few cases where we've made a good mistake when it comes to what we've done. So, the Independent Police Committee, which also has a special task, we've brought it down to 93 on some commission that, and now we've brought it in that there's a question of people coming forward, and here's the Commission whether it's going to work at all. The other thing is, people come all the way out of Sarajevo, I think there's one person in Sarajevo, and we're asking that those at their expense, so they don't have their journals, they don't have any lodgings, they don't have anything, all of you pay from your 475 marks. Furthermore, the greatest absurdity, as a consequence of all these problems, the rape of members of the Independent Commission, as well as the possibility of collective resignation they have considered, and unless we understand that their problem they will do so in due course. What did we do with it? We have made it impossible for this Commission to do its basic responsibility, which is to visit the KP institutions. They weren't done, so the basics that would allow their efficient work. I felt that the Commission for Human Rights, whose competences they were in, had to evaluate it and make recommendations to the Administrative Commission, because the Administrative Commission has no knowledge that it could respect how this should be. Therefore, I propose that this be put on the agenda in particular, and I have suggested that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives should be ordered by the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs in agreement with the Joint Commission on Human Rights, as soon as possible, to amend the existing Decision on compensation for the work of the Independent Commission. So this needs to be fully looked at, and don't let one commission that gives us very high-quality reports about visiting criminal correctional institutions to resign. That's gonna be a bad message to Parliament first.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24940	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24941	I thank the chairman. So apparently sent to a colleague, Majkić, she was the only one who discussed it. The law that I have proposed and which has already been in place for almost two years and which has resulted, according to the Ministry of Finance's reports, savings of 2.2 million marks a year, has introduced order into this branch, leveled all commissions and established the principle of equal compensation for equal work. And now we have the judicial verification and the fact because a second-degree, second-degree ruling by the BiH Court of Justice has been confirmed, and I quote from the verdict, Muhamed Kozadra, the SDA delegate, a representative at the Canton of Sarajevo Assembly and a delegate in the House of Peoples of the Federation, has sued him for no more than 3,200 marks on the board of directors of indirect taxation, as far as it was, already 475 marks, and even if he does so during working time on this Management Board, and he said that the law is unclear, inaccurate. And now you see, as a lawyer, there is no minor more satisfactory than when the Court of Justice of BiH claims Kozadra the law is inaccurate, unclear, etc., when the Court of Justice says - therefore, the law is clear and precise, and does not leave room for doubt, which is why, with the application of language interpretation, it can determine that all the boards of directors are covered by the provision in question without the possibility of exception. And there were warnings here, and you'll see people suing, and they'll get it, so the fees will be paid to them, etc. Here, now we have a court-certified that the law is clear and above all accurate, and to me it's a really great satisfaction. And as for these fees for travel expenses, my colleague Majkić, I really respect you as someone who knows the procedures, you know that it has nothing to do with the fees that my law has settled These are fees for working in commissions and they have nothing to do with travel expenses and us, let's say, now here if some law is reduced, it will in no case affect when we go anywhere on the road if we have the right to transport, logs, hotel, etc. Oh, yeah. Now, in that sense, I support that you, uh, some conclusion by the Administrative Commission that as far as their travel expenses are concerned, it has nothing to do with commission fees. which are limited. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And just one more sentence, so I don't answer again, I apologize. As for these threats to collective resignations, you know who's threatening. People like Kozadra, who have, uh, a congregation mandate, and a delegate mandate, and that, and there are mass teachers from the university, real experts who tell us we're sick of 475 marks. And there were plenty more people who wanted to work once a month for 3,200.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24942	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24943	It won't help us if these people resign, the four doctors of science coming from different parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, how much it takes to bear the cost of a man coming from Mostar, to pay, to be recognised as a bus ticket, so that's how much costs are recognised. Well, don't God's people, because neither do we, and we're very restrictive when it comes to us and when it comes to someone else. If this were some unserious and uninteresting commission, these are every one of these people's experts in that area of human rights and doctors, who will give us a message, if they don't give us, they don't deliver a good message, so it's embarrassing that we put them in a position that they have, they don't have paid the cost of coming, that they don't have a daily for the day they come. I guess they should eat here. It's a shame that we brought in one of these serious commissions that, we should be happy that this way, these commissions that work in this way are rare. Same thing with the Independent Committee. Why we brought in, these are people who have experience in these police affairs, and the two things we've seen so far that we haven't done well. Is it a problem if we go back to reverse and fix it? I invite you colleagues to have so much sensitivity for specific services and to do something about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24944	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24945	Thank you very much. First, it is not true that the Commission has no knowledge, the Administrative Commission, even enough to respect the law and decisions. And the Administrative Commission can't decide from commission to commission. The administrative commission respected the work decisions, so all commissions, and the law required that it treat all commissions equally. I'm really asking my colleagues to understand the way the Administrative Commission works, otherwise, otherwise...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24946	95 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24947	I'm asking my colleague to understand that she understands when other colleagues say she needs to be quiet. I, if you and I were to talk in the house like this, then it would be normal, but in Parliament's session, it's not normal for you to throw when I speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24948	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24949	Please, Mrs. Majkić, here's the same thing, please answer the word. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24950	I...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24951	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24952	Mrs. Majkić, please. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24953	Nothing, I said what I was gonna say, and what you should say right now, I'm gonna skip. I really didn't say anything right now. I'm seeing it. I'm seeing it. I'm seeing it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24954	All right, come on, please, let's get on with it. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong assumption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24955	Well, there's one concept in the economy, I'm not an economist, but sometimes I read something called cost-benefit analysis, it says there are savings that cause far more damage than that famous savings. In passing, I will again use the term, the famous law, I have in the course of saying that the non-selective application of this law will have situations where the damage will be far greater than the savings. It just seems to me that this is one of those examples. Look, in the report, this is how it says -- the Commission for Decision on conflict of interest gave an opinion on which members of the Independent Commission have the status of elected officials. We know, and subject to the Law of Conflict of Interest, we here know what all this status of elected officials wear nicely in part of the restriction. So, I don't know how to solve it at this point and I don't know how much it's our Administrative Commission's job to fix the situation so this commission, very seriously and very importantly, we've heard, had better working conditions, but I know that it must have better working conditions among other things that will increase the size of his work. I guess we're finally going to open up that state prison, and we're certainly not going to end any existing prison, and probably one of these committees is going to have to come to that state prison, and they're going to have to take a very serious seat and take care of everything we've seen here and 96 of us have talked about. And that's why I think we should be very careful, not over our thumbs, analyze everything that brings savings or damage and how we can fix it. This report and the example of this commission really gives us the right to think about it in the future. And I, regardless of all these restrictions concerning the Administrative Commission, call upon, here, and the Administrative Commission to see all possible ways to facilitate the very important work of this Committee, but also us through any changes.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24956	Thank you. Nermina Kapetanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24957	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought I was going under the wrong assumption, but I'm not sure I'd have enough time to say what I'm trying to say. First of all, I fully support everything said, as the distinguished representative Dušanka Majkić said. Why? I was a member of the commission who chose the composition of this Commission and I can, dare say that it was a very strict interview, we really asked the representatives from all the European prison rules, to the Criminal Law of BiH, to the knowledge of the situation in prisons, and I can say that I am really proud that we have received the composition of a Commission that is so respectable, which has four doctors of science, who are longtime lecturers at universities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, starting with a respected colleague, our former colleague Milet Lasić, Professor Azra Alajbegović, Mr. Gurda and several other candidates. Why do I still agree with Mrs. Majkić? First, the report they made is very correct, it's a worrying fact and it has to be repeated here today again, the prison rules, European prison rules, and that should be binding on Bosnia and Herzegovina, saying that 25 prisoners go to one prison guard. In the largest homes, here I am as a Zeničanka to refer to the KP home of Zenica, 70 prisoners overseeing one guard. There's been an emergency medical intervention, because there are often conflict situations inside the prison, when a certain guard, or guard, has to leave full surveillance of all 70 people, without being able to replace, to be escorted to the hospital, because not only can a medical technician go, and there's a big problem. So, first of all, we don't see the problem of why the number of prison guards doesn't increase, why the Ministry of Justice, the entity ministries, is running away from it. And we think that this Commission is really doing its job right, and it's not doing the report, it's writing it the way it really is. If our goal is to, and should be, that the persons who, who are serving punishments, who are being punished for committing crimes, if we want to resociate them and then make them their inclusion in the Bosnian Herzegovina society, not to be repeaters of criminal acts, then it is in our interest that this Commission, which is different profiles, therefore, from a highly profiled legal expert, medical expert, several colleagues, so, different professions, do this work ideally and in quality. I think they're the best we could choose. Then we have to give them conditions, give them conditions, conditions, whatever you want. It is a shame, for example, that the representative, former representative, my esteemed colleague Mr. Lasić, from Mostar, recognizes the value of the bus ticket to Sarajevo, and everything else that goes and all the visits, let's say, that the prisons of five afternoons, when they don't actually find anyone there, because the visits actually need to be unannounced, everything that has been announced is haired, they have no compensation for it. The weight, the specific weight of this Commission, for which I, believe, believe and believe and as a person who has often visited the Penal jurisprudence home of Zenica, I argue that it is not equal to some other commissions, that it cannot be valued at the weight of the work in that Commission and cannot all be suffered in the same basket. 97 Why did Agent Majkić react this way? I suppose she heard it too, and there is, I don't see Mr. Bojić as chairman of the Commission, there has been a disdain of a number of members of the Administrative Commission who are also members of the Commission for the Protection of Human Rights, they said simply – so what. So because of this "what" we have come here, that the European Commission is constantly reminding us of the rise in crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we are constantly on the blacklists, and now, tomorrow, a report saying that Bosnia and Herzegovina in the segment of the reduction of crimes has not made much progress compared to last year and therefore "what" that "so what" cannot happen in the Administrative Commission and every rule must have an exception. So I welcome my colleague's discussion, I totally understand. I don't think prison conditions are very good, they're not good, I think the entity justice departments have to deal much more with the situation within the prisons where they're dealing drugs, which are rapes, which have AIDS, and this Commission is really trying to raise the standard. Because, look, it's about human beings no matter what the perpetrators are, but they have human rights. I think the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should find the possibility that this Commission is adequately worthy of its work, because it is ultimately aimed at getting out of prison of a person who is re-socialised and who will not be a re-executor of the crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24958	Thank you. Mirsad Isaković, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24959	You know, I don't agree with these opinions expressed for a number of reasons. First of all, when it comes to fees on this basis, so what the Administrative Commission did, I think it's quite logical, because we MPs don't have any higher fees either. I come from Zenica, I don't have any compensation, because I don't want to sign something that isn't, it's not in accordance with my principles, I don't come here every day to Parliament and I don't want to sign anything and I don't get any fees, so I don't get a bus ticket. What the Administrative Commission has done I think it's completely detached, it's according to the Regulation and it needs to be... Likewise, when it comes to the Commission, whether they are the doctors of science, whether they are this-that's less important, but the important thing is that they are the people of politicians in the aorist, so in the immediate past that they were. I advocate that the Commission be treated by people who are completely independent, independent of anyone. And so if people won't resign, we'll discuss the contest, one who hasn't been in politics for at least five years or 10 years, and performs such a function. So that's quite realistic, and that's how it was supposed to happen and be the opinion of the Parliamentarians and us to choose such people in such a commission. And to come, I come from Zenica completely without any compensation to the commission and to this Parliament and to, I don't know, the invitations of certain embassies, and to working meetings, etc. And no one pays me anything. So I don't see any reason why anyone else who's temporarily here gets anything special but both past the Rules of Procedure and past the law that they adopt, is it, from Mr. Arnaut. Thank you very much, here's the deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24960	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Nermina Kapetanović. Here's 98.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24961	I cannot, Mr. Isaković, agree with you as a person who, like all Zeničan, therefore, Mr. Mešić, Mr. Džaferović and I, Mrs. Mensura, we receive no fees for, no benefits because we come from Zenica and it is... now our story of Zenica and our non-take, uh, some benefits are irrelevant to this whole thing. Also, and what I particularly disagree with you, and I am surprised at your performance, so don't I need to be here in the Parliamentary Assembly to be proud of the fact that we have chosen unsolicited persons, they have not been delegated by political parties, I say immediately, have not been delegated by political parties. The HDZ did not make a proposal for Mr. Lasić, nor did anyone urinate, you can check with all the members of the commission, Mr. Tadić and I, no one has made a proposal for him or Professor Alajbegović, nor for Mr. Gurda and Mrs. from Republika Srpska, so it is not, it is not politically active figures. And secondly, don't we have to pursue the fact and form as many committees as possible with experts? And in principle, if you don't like leaving, let go and leave, leave someone with less knowledge, let those people whose fates are as they are and who are the perpetrators, but they're human beings, I can't agree with that concept. I think the Bosnian Herzegovina society is in crisis right now because there has been a drop in quality generally at all levels and due to a poor education system. But when he logs in, so someone who's a university professor instead of being honored to want to help in that sphere, in the fair of human rights, we say here if he won't let go, in principle – so what, that's the question of the Administrative Commission, so what. I disagree, I think that the best should be in committees and that the Parliamentary Assembly appoints the best regardless of political proposals, and in this case there were no political proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24962	Thank you. Mirsad Isaković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24963	Well, I'm glad that Mrs. Kapetanović doesn't agree with me, you know, it implies to me that she doesn't agree with me for the simple reason that, of course, we're not the same understanding and we're not the same thinking. What my thinking is, therefore, is that, if you listened to me, politicians in the aorist, in the immediate past I said. So, they're politicians, and tomorrow I'll be appointed somewhere or I won't name it, etc. So I don't need to be appointed to such functions where politics is dominant, it's on one side. And on the other hand, who's to say someone's an expert in some area and someone's not. Well, you and I probably haven't, there's someone who's relevant, but he's probably not here in the parliamentary room. That, on the other hand, I want to tell you when it comes to fees, I don't know if you're receiving, I don't care, I didn't even mention you, but I said that I don't accept and I don't want to receive, I don't want to sign a document that I don't come to this Parliament every day and take, uh, a fee, and I don't take it. And I didn't mention you and anyone in the Zenica at all, and I don't want to mention it in that context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24964	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24965	First, the Administrative Commission cannot work outside documents, so the Administrative Commission must respect the law and respect decisions, the same decision was taken by the same Commission. The second thing, not these people were chosen by someone proposing them, but reported to the competition, when they applied to the competition, they were all familiar with the conditions under which they would eventually be elected and everyone knew these conditions in advance. I don't think people should be allowed any more, but we can't decide because we think, but because in law, then we have to make it clear that there are commissions that are different from other commissions, and not that, as the law says, the treatment of all commissions is the same. It is therefore not about the will of the Administrative Commission, it is exclusively about the work of the Administrative Commission in accordance with the acts it has, and it is not correct for the Commission to bring it into the context of the unhappiness or resignations of these people. So, all the people who answer have conditions ahead of them, they know when they've come up with what the fee is, they know what it's going to mean, and they know if the costs are covered, they don't have the costs covered, etc., etc. We discussed this on the Administrative Commission, so we had a debate on this, and with many arguments most of the members of the Commission were not accepted, it was not accepted that there was any pain, any deviation in this case, or in any other cases where there were attempts, such as the Council of National Minorities, etc. where there were also demands of this kind and similar kind.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24966	Thank you. Discussion, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24967	Very briefly, Momčilo just said, and I don't think there's gonna be a solution here unless the law changes. No one can change by any decision what is prescribed by law. So it is only possible that MPs or whoever proposes a law that will resolve this issue. Everything else, any kind of decision, regulation, regulations, cannot be amended by law. It's just that here it's better to go back to the previous state, it seems to me, that it's had better results than this right now, not... getting into whether any commission is more important or not more important, this is where the commissions are decided. As soon as the commissions are decided to have the same approach, the law has defined. Therefore, it is not possible to do it differently than to amend the law. Therefore, all these conclusions, I'm afraid, will not be able to help achieve a quality solution without amending this law that will regulate this issue. There's only that much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24968	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24969	Just a sentence of one, so the only good knowledge of the work of this Commission is... The Human Rights Commission, it is the only one who knows how to work in detail. If its answer is, it should be changed by law and only by law, let it be an answer, let it be an answer to change, some bill proposal, but it is the only commission that follows the work and knows whether 100 deserves to be an exception or not. If he doesn't deserve it, this Human Rights Commission will say no and the Administrative Commission has nothing to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24970	Thank you. Discussion, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24971	I thank the chairman. You see, this is simply not true, I cannot believe that I hear these things in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that it is necessary to change the law in order to resolve travel costs, it is absolutely not true. So, the law prescribed a fee for working in the Commission, and that was not so much a question for Mrs. Majkić, she was talking about travel costs. And we agree that travel costs have nothing to do with any legal, business or causative costs, or commission fees. And then some insistence that the problem of travel costs can only be solved by changing the law, in fact then sounds either like complete ignorance or as an introduction to the amendments to the law which would then increase the fees again at a small door, this one, and then be Eldorado, there would be no more rules, then the commission itself would determine the amount of compensation. And that was one of the reasons why this BiH Parliamentary Assembly decided to move to the area. And now I ask again, here are the MPs, who know very well the difference between the fees for their work and the travel expenses, when the fees for the commissions have been lifted, and all of you have been abolished if the commission meets at work, have your travel expenses been abolished, has anyone challenged your right to attend a committee meeting by hiring your driver? No, but your fees have been lifted. So don't mix two things that have nothing to do with each other. Now, as far as these allegations are concerned, that some commissions have unsolicited persons, I really cannot accept it, and that is precisely the problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which in most of these commissions, especially so far while these fabulous fees were mostly paid by politicised persons. And you can't say that the former members of Parliament, here someone mentioned Mrs Alajbegović, Mr Lasić, etc., these are all former members of Parliament, you can't say that they are unsolicited. Or when, for example, it's Kozarda, who's appointed from the order of experts, and the man is sitting in the Cantonal Assembly and the House of the Peoples of the Federation, as you're going to say to him that he's depolitized, and he's sitting in the order of experts, not functioning. And you know what that reminds me of? Just like when the Constitutional Court leaves these benches, literally from these benches directly to the Constitutional Court, Mirsad Ćeman and Sead Palavrić are on their way to the Constitutional Court, they're staying at the Central SDA and they're going to go to the Constitutional Court, and we're saying now that we in the Constitutional Court suddenly have depolished persons because they're not formally members of the SDA anymore, because they stopped at the SDA Central to take a note on their way to the Constitutional Court. So as long as... former, current politicians, you can't talk about depoliticalizing commissions. It was only this law that created the final conditions for depoliting these bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24972	Ending, closing debate at point 16. Moving to point 17, 101 Ad. 17. Report on the activities of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2017 – applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, issue: 01/4-50-19-750/18, since 15.03.2018 The Commission for Finance and Budgets submitted its report on 18.04.2018. Opinion on the report. The Commission unanimously accepted the report and adopted the conclusion. I'm opening a debate. We don't, Predrag Kožul, correcting the wrong quote. Well, we haven't even had a discussion yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24974	Yours, yours, your correction, but it's not your fault, it may be the report of the commission. The Commission has indeed unanimously accepted the report, but has not unanimously accepted the conclusion. That conclusion is otherwise the conclusion of the Committee which, at the Committee, we have agreed that this conclusion does not go to the adoption of the House of Representatives session. Of course, uh, I just wanted to clarify, uh, that fact that maybe it's not completely visible from this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24975	So I said the Commission unanimously accepted the report and adopted the conclusion. So it doesn't apply unanimously to the conclusion. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on the 17th point. Moving to point 18, Ad. 18. Annual report on the application of the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates to the Parlame National Assembly of BiH for 2017 – submiter: Joint Committee on Human Rights, issue: 01,02-50-19-788/18, since 20.03.2018 Article 64 (1) point (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and of Article 30. The Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly found that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is at least once a year considering and assessing the work of the Joint Commission on Human Rights in relation to the application of the Code of Human Rights. You got your annual report. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 19, Ad. 19. Prior to the national strategy for drug control, prevention and control of drug abuse in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018 -2023 - submiter: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-04-649/18, from 02.03.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24978	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I only have one proposal to forward this conclusion on page 20, and I have already passed it on behind the word "entity" in the third section, i.e. the paragraph above the word "zonal". It means that there is a sentence – In coordination for entities, county bodies, Brcko District, because the following sentence is referred to institutions, institutions and everything else where at least half of the powers at the county levels of the original jurisdiction, so that they do, have such bodies, according to my knowledge, and should just add, in my opinion, to this text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24979	Thank you. We don't have any further reports to discuss. I'm closing point 19. Moving to point 20, Ad. 20. Review of the Hanka Vajzović parliamentary initiative, issue: 01-50-1-671/18, since 06.03.2018 The dom Kolegijum has appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission responsible for considering the initiative. The Commission submitted its opinion on 18.04.2018. The Commission adopted a parliamentary initiative and delivered it to the House of Representatives with a proposal that the homes authorise both constitutional commissions to establish a proposal for the official consolidated text of the Law on State Service in BiH institutions. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any reports, Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24981	Just to remind you that the Rules of Procedure make it clear that in the absence of the proposings, the proposed agenda item will not be discussed unless the House decides otherwise. So we don't have business conditions to discuss this item on the agenda, given that the proposing is not present.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24982	Does anyone take her initiative from you?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24983	What people suggest from the club, I mean, it's not a problem to take it off.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24984	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24985	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24986	Let's vote, we can vote that even without the proposing's presence we do that...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24987	...we're looking for a break for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24988	That we're not taking a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24989	Ten minutes off.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24990	And can we cut the break for half a minute?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24991	We have a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24992	So here's what I suggest we continue, if that's okay with you. Mrs. Vajzović, you're like the 20th point promoter and we've reached the 20th point, we've opened the debate. If there are no reports, I'll conclude a hearing on the 20th point. Before we move to point 21, I propose that the debate be brought together on points 21 to 28, given that it is a matter of giving consent to the ratification of amendments, agreements, contracts, conventions and protocols. Prepare to vote on the unification of the debate. For 26, there are no, abstentions 8. There's a general and entity majority, and we've united the debate. Ad. 21. - Ad. 28. Giving consent to ratification of amendments, agreements, agreements, conventions and protocols You have received opinions from the Commission in charge of external affairs. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. This was the last item of the agenda. How long do we need to...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24994	Half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24995	Half an hour to vote. So, at 7:30, there'll be a vote. So we're going to vote for the 60th session. First item – The adoption of the minutes 59th from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. We're voting on the adoption of the 59th session. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24998	Later. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u24999	It's a later vote. We're going to vote at 5. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Violations – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-531/18, from 19.02.2018 (second reading). We're voting on the adoption of the bill in the second reading. For 13, v. 22, abstention 3. There's no general majority. So the bill didn't go through. We're going to point six. – Before the draft law on change between us and additions to the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-377/18, since 27.02.2018 (second reading). We are voting on the amendment of MP Nikola Lovrinović. For 4, versus 21, abstention 13. There's no general majority. It means MP Lovrinović's amendment has not been adopted. We're voting on adoption before the law in the second reading. For 18, v. 9, abstention 11. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Voting?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u25000	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u25001	Later. Voting later, so we'll have a second round of voting. Moving to point 7. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1-647/18, from 02.03.2018, with Opinion m Constitutional Commission. We're voting on a negative opinion by the Constitutional Commission. For 16, against 16, abstentions, what's this now, what's happened now. So, by this now for 16, versus 17, abstention 5. There's no general majority. Therefore, the further legislative procedure is suspended in accordance with Article 113(4) of the Rules of Procedure. Moving to point 8. – Prior to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina – pre-leader: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-697/18, since 07.03.2018 (first reading). We're voting on the adoption of the bill in the first reading. For 18, v. 7, abstention 13. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Voting. 106
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u25002	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u25003	Later. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Who asked for a repeat? We repeat the vote. For 18, v. 6, abstention 14. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Later vote We move to point 9. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01- 02-1-762/18, since 16/03/2018, with Opinion m Constitutional Law not Commission. We're voting on the negative opinion of the Constitutional Righteous Neighbours. For 16, versus 17, abstention 5. There's no general majority. It means that no opinion has been accepted and the competent Commission is obliged to draw up a new Opinion in accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure. We're going to point 10. – Report by the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02- 02-1-1830/17, since 27.03.2018. We're voting for adoption of the report. For 25, against six, abstentions seven. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Voting, are you suggesting now or should I postpone?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u25005	Put it down.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u25006	Postponing vote. So we're going to point 11. – The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on before MP Nikola Špirić's position to include a new item in the 59th agenda of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which reads: "The status of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the alarming statements of BiH Minister Dragan Mektić", issue: 01-50-1-793/18, since 21.03.2018. We are voting on MP Nikola Špirić's proposal in the second round of voting. For 17, against 10, abstention 11. There's a general and entity majority. It means the report's been adopted. 107 Point 12. – Report on the work of the Danish Commissions of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2017: (a) Report on the Work of the Danish Commission on Defence and Security of BiH, issue: 03/1 - 50-19-2975/17, of 15.01.2018, (b) Report on the Work of the Danish Commission on Economic Reform and Development, issue: 03/3 - 50-14-916-18, of 16/01.2018, c) Report on the Work of the Danish Commission on European Integration, issue: 03/4-50-14-14-14-253/18, of 24.01.2018, d) Report on the work of the Working Committee on Administrative Affairs, issue: 03/5-50-14-11-253/18, of 15.02.2018, e) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, issue: 03/6 -50-14253/2018. We are voting on a proposal to keep the reports in the package. For 34, against four abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. So now we're voting on the adoption of the report in the package. For 26, v. 10, abstention 2. The general majority exists, the ethnic majority exists. It means we've adopted the reports. Point 13. – Report on the work of the Committee of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2017: (a) Report on the Commission's work to prepare him for the election of the Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01/7-50-3-140-8/18, of 17/01/2018, (b) Report on the Commission's work on Transport and Communications, issue: 01-50-19-2975/17, of 18/01/2018, c) Report on the work of the Constitutional Commission, issue: 01/1 -50-19-224/18 of 30.01.2018, d) Report on the work of the Commission to achieve gender equality, issue: 01/6 - 50-19-224/18 of 06.02.2018, e) Report on the work of the Commission for Finance and Budget, issue 01-50-574/18 of 22.02.2018, f.) Report of 22-19.2018 of 22-19 of 22.2018 of 22-19 of the Commission'st of 22.2018. We are voting on a proposal to keep the reports in the package. For 31, v. 6, abstention 1. There's a general and entity majority. Now we're voting on the adoption of the report in the package. For 25, v. 9, abstention 4. There's an ethnic and general majority. We've adopted reports. We're going to vote on item 14. – Report on the work of the National Minorities Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, material number: 05/7-50-19-555/18, since 21.02.2018. We're voting for adoption of the report. For 20, v. 1, abstention 17. So there's a general and entity majority. 108 We adopted the report. Moving to point 15. – Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-565/18, of 22.02.2018. We're voting for adoption of the report. For 17, v. 8, abstention 13. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Voting now or later?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u25007	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u25008	It's a later vote. Moving to point 16. – Report on the work of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Staying Conditions in Institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for crimes provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by a member of the Court of Justice in accordance with the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, act No: 05/6-50-19-608/18, of 26.02.2018. We are voting on the proposal to conclude Parliament, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u25009	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-18-0.u25010	She gave up. Okay. We move to a vote on the adoption of the report with the first three recommendations from the report. For 17, v. 7, abstention 14. There's a general and enthusiastic majority. So it's over. Point 17. – Report on the activities of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2017 – applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, issue: 01/4-50-19-750/18, since 15.03.2018. We're voting for adoption of the report. For 22, against six, abstentions 10. There's a general and entity majority. It means we've adopted the report. Point 18. – Annual report on the application of neither the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates to the Parlame National Assembly of BiH for 2017 – submiter: Joint Commission for Human Rights, issue: 01,02-50-19-788/18, since 20.03.2018. We're voting for adoption of the report. For 25, against 3 abstentions 10. There's a general and entity majority. It means we've adopted the report. 109 We move to point 19. – Prior to the national strategy for drug control, prevention and control of drug abuse in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2018-2023 – applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01.02 -04-649/18, since 02.03.2018. We are voting on the proposal to conclude MP Nikola Lovrinović. For 14, against 14, abstention 10. There's no general majority. We are now voting on the adoption of the Strategy. For 26, v. 1, abstention 11. There's a general and entity majority. The strategy has been adopted. Point 20. – Review of the parliamentary initiative Hanka Vajzović, issue: 01-50-1-671/18, since 06.03.2018. We are voting on the adoption of the initiative and a proposal from the Constitutional Commission to authorise both constitutional committees to establish a proposal for the official consolidated text of the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For 34, there are no, abstentions four. There's a general and entity majority. The initiative has been accepted. Now we're voting on before the article to make a statement on points 21 to 28 in the package. For 35, v. 1, abstention 2. There's a general and entity majority. Voting accepted in package. So we're voting on points 21 to 28. – Giving consent to ratification of agreements and amendments. For 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It means they've been given consent to ratify the agreement and the amendment. This concludes the 60th session of the House of Representatives. I note that you received an invitation to the 8th emergency session of the House of Representatives on Friday 20.04.2018 at 10 o'clock. Thank you. Session completed at 8:05 p.m.
