ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25349	Please take your seats to begin work. Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 62nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. BiH Civilian Minister Adil Osmanović's cabinet informed us that Minister and Deputy Minister were unable to attend today's session, from the cabinet of finance and vault ministers, Vjekoslav Bevanda, we were informed that the minister was unable to attend today's session, from Foreign Minister Igor Crnadko's office, we were also informed that the minister was unable to attend today's session. Minister Dragan Mektić announced he is unable to attend today's session. The absence from the session was also justified by MP Monika Tomić. The delays were announced by MPs Mirsad Mešić and Željko Komšić. According to service data, the meetings are attended by 32 MPs. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. On the previous issues, I would like to remind you that the doma Kolegijum as a committee in accordance with Rule 86(2) of the Rules of Procedure has reached agreement on the following points which were on the agenda of the previous 61st session, which did not require an entity majority in the first round of voting. These are: 1. Proposal for a law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01.02-02-1-3010/17, since 21.03.2018 (the law in first reading). 2. Report on the work of the BiH Law Department for the period 01.01.-31.12.2017. issue: 01.02-10-905/18, since 06.04.2018. 3. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-951/18 of 13/04.2018. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As for the change of session agenda, I would like to point out the following. The agenda has been downloaded: Point 3. Report by the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, issue: 01,02-06-1004/18, from 18.04.2018 and issue: 01-50-1-1021/18, from 24.04.2018, removed from the session agenda because the European Integration Commission did not hold a session. Point 7. Annual report on the results of the Human Rights Institution of BiH's Human Rights Institution for 2017 – submitr: BiH Human Rights Institution, issue: 2 01,02-37-776/18, as of 19.03.2018, removed from the agenda because the Joint Commission for Human Rights did not hold a session. Point 13. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2017, issue: 01,02-09-1029/18, since 23.04.2018, removed from the agenda due to the absence of the applicant. The Foreign Affairs Commission did not hold a session and the following points were removed from the agenda: point 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty of Finance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the JP Highways of Republika Srpska - Highway Banja Luka – Doboj B, issue: 01.02-50-2-1041/18, since 24.04.2018. Dot. 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the process of joining the European Union, issue: 01,02-05-2-1068/18, since 26.04.2018. Point 19. Giving consent to ratification of the Special Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is represented by the Directorate for European Integration of BiH, and Sweden, represented by the Swedish International Development Co-operation Agency, on support of the European Integration Directorate, No. 01.02-05-2-1102/18, of 03.05.2018. Point 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain on international road traffic, No. 01,02-05-2-1140/18, of 09.05.2018. Point 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding for Co-operation in Education, Higher Education and Scientific Research between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the State of Qatar, issue: 01.02-05-2-1141/18, since 09.05.2018. Point 22. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the State of Qatar on co-operation in the field of health, the production of medicines and the employment of healthcare professionals, No: 01,02-05-2-1142/18, since 09.05.2018. Point 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of the Cross-border Co-operation Programme of Serbia – Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 between the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01.02-05-2-1143/18 of 09.05.2018. Point 24. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation in the area of youth between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the State of Qatar, issue: 01.02-05-2-1194/18 since 16.05.2018. Point 6 is amended which is now as follows: point 5. Declaration of the House of Representatives to set a new deadline for the submission of the report on the Amendment Law and Supplements of the Law on Administrative Disputes of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-697/18, of 07.03.2018 (second reading). 3 Add to the agenda: Point 3. The request of MPs Mladen Bosić, Aleksandra Pandurević, Nenad Lalić and Momčilo Novaković to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-1291/18, since 28.05.2018. Point 4. The request of MPs Mladen Bosić, Aleksandra Pandurević, Nenad Lalić and Momčilo Novaković to consider the P rule of law amending the Law on Public Broadcasting of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-1-1292/18, of 28.05.2018. Point 16. Information on the current position, assessment of the readiness and ability of the Central Election Commission of BiH (CIKBiH) to organise and conduct fair elections in October 2018 – Proposer: Senad Šepić, number: 01-50-1-997/18, since 20.04.2018. Point 17. The debate on the work, activities and procedures of the CEC of BiH in the light of the upcoming general elections and the need to be organised in a fair and fair atmosphere – Proposer: MPs Damir Arnaut and Saša Magazinović, issue:01-50-1-999/18, since 20.04.2018. Point 18. Recommendations for the reform of the energy sector: MPs Momčilo Novaković, Hanka Vajzović, Saša Magazinović, Predrag Kožul, Mirsad Isaković, Lazar Prodanović and jasmin Emrić, material number: 01-28-1300/18, of 29.05.2018. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. First, MP Senad Šepić signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25350	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I answered for two reasons. The first is, therefore, to remove this agenda item for the third time related to the European Commission's Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina. A month and a half ago in progress, the currents of this topic were put forward by the initiative to discuss this, here, for the third time, we're taking it off the agenda. It is totally unacceptable for me to refer to any questions in this way, especially, to, say, this issue. Someone must be responsible that for the third time we are not in a position to discuss what we have agreed, we are doing business a month and a half ago, all in order to discuss this matter in the BiH Parliament. So I can use some of this business, as it's called, stuff in a way that someone's trying to block it like that, but we need to open up this debate here, talk about it, and someone has to be responsible for it. So on the one hand, you have behavior where we swear that we are something for this European Union, that we are promoters, carriers of European values, etc., and on the other hand we all make it essentially never happen. So, for me, it's hypocrisy, and it's such an unfair, unfair policy, so totally unacceptable. And I think it's unacceptable for most of the people who live in this country. And I think that here in this Parliamentary Assembly there are most people who want to talk honestly about this topic. Don't be the hostages of those who play a double one, as it is called, the game and try to keep us all hostage to some of their bad and negative policies. I propose that we re-classify this item of the agenda today and we take the formal report that the European Commission has given and that we conduct four discussions on this basis. If we do not have the Commission's position on European integration, we can speak here as Parliament in this regard and give our position. That's the first thing. And the other thing is, I suggest we include a new agenda item today, and it bears the title – Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on concrete business activities related to the protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and in the process of adopting the Law on State Property Management in the neighbouring country. A brief explanation: So, we are witnesses, here, these days very much has stories about what actually happened in Croatia, what it means to pass a new Law in Croatia on the management of property in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, what is the relationship to the property of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Some mention that it is a billion, some two, some five, etc., we don't know what it is, but what we need to know and what the government, the Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency, we who are sitting here, the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is that we open up the discussion in that sense and that we as institutions, do our job and that we are those who speak loudly about it and protect the interests of our country. Therefore, this legislation in the Republic of Croatia is approved that Bosnia and Herzegovina's property in its territory has the right to grant concessions. So, though, I listened to some statements from Croatian people saying that this exclusively serves as a tool to speed up the process of resolving the issues of Bosnia and Herzegovina's property in Croatia's territory and remains open This issue of concessionaires, that is, their right to purchase property that has been available for more than 20 years. [[the speaker is warned on time]] If this is any kind of attempt, as I would say, of cheating, or of kidnapping the property of this country and the citizens of this country in this way, we as Parliament and as the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina must have our answer in this regard. We have a Council of Ministers chairman here, we have people from the Council of Ministers, so I think we have everything in this sense ready for those people who should have worked that kind of work by now, here, not to get into this situation where we are currently, but I suggest we put this item on the agenda and send one piece of information in this sense today from this Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much. Here's the material.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25351	Thank you. To inform you about the European Union Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina, the problem was that it was not possible to hold a session of the Commission for European Integration. There is obviously a serious problem in providing the quorum for the committees of this Parliament. It is up to the MPs, or members of the commission. We cannot, unfortunately, blame anyone outside this room and outside this House, why we cannot secure a quorum at the Commission's stakes. So, the College agreed that if the Commission did not reflect the session until the next session, it would nevertheless put this item on the agenda of the next session. So, in any event, whether the Commission is held or not, it will be at the next session as a part of the agenda. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25352	Good afternoon. I welcome all present in the hall and to you at the Presidential table. So, one part of the answer to Mr. Šepić you took away from me, just a correction as much as we said last time. So, we said to the College, I didn't have a chance yesterday physically to attend the College session in an extended composition because something happened to me coming back from Warsaw 5 from the NATO Assembly session, I was late, but we were saying to put it on this session, exactly what you said to be at this session, whether it had an opinion or whether there was no Commission on European Integration, because it's not binding, as far as I understand the Rules of Procedure, either at that time. And on the other hand, Mr. Šepić, this is not on your proposal, but this is a material about the European Commission Special Report, which, by its regular procedure, came before the College, the College was in charge of the Committee and, behold, we failed to meet. And another correction of the year to Bosić, yesterday, as far as I'm concerned, at one point, the quorum happens, but it's really hard to put it together, I don't know why, I don't have an answer, and this morning I thought we'd meet again at 9:00. Simply what the Commission has done has failed to obtain the agreement of the members of the Committee that we have a sufficient number of people, and that is at least eight or seven, for us to be able to work. So we couldn't just put ourselves in. And if there's no other I don't mind staying on the agenda today or how with that on the College yesterday decided to do it next time, only then the material would probably have some other dimension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25353	Thank you. Just to remind you that it was the House's conclusion that the Commission's opinion on European integration is being sought. So we wait until the next session for the Commission to do its job, and if it fails to finish it, that will be the point of the agenda at the next session. The discussion, Nikola Lovrinović, was that it or?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25354	It wasn't that, uh, I thought, yeah, Šepić was before me. Thanks again. So, first of all, I would like to propose an addition to the agenda that would read – Information on the implementation of the emergency plan and the implementation of activities related to the migrant crisis. Namely, I will remind you of the conclusion from last session that we downloaded that agenda point because the material was in front of us, so we said one, were actually two points of the same conclusion that by this session we were preparing this information or report and that it was mandatory at this session, therefore, that this item of the agenda is being considered. I, therefore, suggest that it be put on the agenda anyway, regardless of what the minister who said such big words, therefore, in his public reporting process, saying, mentioning the coup and today there is no and no agenda point, I suggest that no one from the Council of Ministers orally informs us what is going on, what is happening on the ground and what is the current situation, so let him also use the material he had, I heard that there was a Council of Ministers that point of the agenda and that they did not finish that job there. But there is no, therefore, the point of all the neurality that was created after certain events that we have no information today, that we do not have a agenda point, that we do not respect our own conclusion. We ask, therefore, that the point be placed and that someone orally informs us what is currently going on in this topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25355	Thank you. You're looking for a new agenda item. Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25356	Thank you, Your Honor. I am taking the opportunity to welcome you, your colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament and distinguished guests. Well, look, I wouldn't just be able to give up this report regardless of what I, Mr. Chairman, respect your position and your argument, uh, because today, here, we have the presence of the chairman here and I think we should discuss this report today, regardless of, uh, which is the conclusion from the extraordinary session that we have this Joint Commission on European Integration. Why? Because I feel an organized obstruction here. So, the Commission, responsibly argues, is obstructing that this very important issue is not being discussed, because it is impossible for a month not to meet, and when we take into account its work in the previous period, they had regular reports, etc. So, here it is conscious that the debate on what is the result of the Council of Ministers' work in, not only this year, but also in previous years, and that is the European Commission's report, because we have read the European Commission's report and we see there are parts of the tension, and we can talk about it, but there are a lot of what we MPs need to talk about here, and it is bad or not done, from public administration reforms that have not even started in the process, from strategies that are missing, which need to be completed in the next period. So we need to talk about it, we're wasting time, elections are coming up. The point of this report is electoral legislation. We've called the election, we've made the election, and we don't know how we're gonna make the election. He says here finely that the domestic political scene must secure the Electoral Law. On television they say OHR, or in the media, OHR will at some point impose how we will form the homes of the people. Well, that has nothing to do with what the European Commission is talking about. So this Parliament has to start doing this story here, they can't do it by political leaders, obviously they can't, and they've shown that they can't. And Mr. Bosić, I responsibly argue that when I analyse the state of the external obstructors, it's not just this Commission, there are political leaders of the ruling majority, they said -- don't come here today, don't put it on the line for us today. So, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is where the ruling government won't discuss its activities in the previous four years. The European Commission has given a lot of negative things that have not been done in this period, there are good things, but let's talk about it. Let's see what we can do together to make progress in Bosnia and Herzegovina's next period more significant and quality, to bring these strategies, to finish this election story. Don't put us in a position in October 2018 to have elected MPs, and that we don't have the mechanism, because we don't have it, the Constitutional Court erased it from the law, how to form the homes of the people, which means we won't have the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we don't have the Federal Government, [[the speaker is warned on time]] If we don't have everything that's connected, here I will say, I come from the Federation, I apologize, only for the Federation, Republika Srpska will function, the story will begin that Dodik is a good government, that nothing works in the Federation, you'll be participants. [[the speaker is warned on time]] a negative process. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So I'm asking you to discuss this story and, in such a way, unplug this problem that is present. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25357	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really must react to what Mr Sokolović said, because it is obvious that he did not even look at the Rules of Procedure on how the Joint Commission on European Integration works. Namely, I can name it, I don't know if more than three times the College has ever assigned this commission to discuss some of the topics that concern both our title and what should be our work description, I don't remember in the entire term. All else is this commission just pushed, and round tables, and the work of the Parliamentary Forum, which you also did not follow and which you also did not talk about. And let me remind you that for 2015, for 2016, there have been different reports, including the European Commission on the state of progress of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European road, no one has come to terms with it, suddenly it is interesting this year 2018. So, I repeat again, it happened to me the first time that the Committee couldn't have quorum in the last, here, half a year, but before that the Committee worked, we didn't have the assignments but we looked for them ourselves. You've had reports in front of your room, and none of them have even reported to you today most about the need to discuss it. The same topics were, the same story was, the same problems were processed, no one answered. Now that's interesting, I don't mind, as President of the Committee for European Integrations, saying I don't mind and it's not a condition for business to be on the agenda today, so the opinion of the Commission. If the conclusion was that Parliament must ask for an opinion, I, here, have nothing to say, but the report can be considered if it is ready today, for me it can. So, things are just like I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25359	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25360	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. It is not true what Mr. Lovrinović says, I think... he forgets some sessions from the previous period although I am glad that someone from HDZ is at the head of this Commission, because it is obvious that in this public we can see that you are promoters, and that you also know that you are capable of such European values... I'm surprised we weren't in the European Union 10 years ago, uh, considering... Nikola Lovrinović [[no microphone turned on]] Well, there wasn't you, Mr. Lovrinović, at the head of this commission, probably would have been. So, take, return the records, take, return the stenograms, you will see that this club has requested that every three months the European progress of Bosnia and Herzegovina be reported. Take it, put it back, deny me now or when you find it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25362	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25363	Thank you. It is not only controversial, it should be fair and said that the Council of Ministers ignores Parliament in this term and ignores it when it is, especially when it comes to the topic of European integration. That the level of frustration of Parliament reached that level that was the reason why we rejected one of the reports and brought it down here in Parliament. I may not be the content of this report, but in this concite case, there are few MPs. There was a Commission on which, the Joint Commission which has as many members as there are, where it came from, four MPs came. We were informed then that he was also chairman of the Council of Ministers in the building and that he was waiting for the quorum to be established to come to the session. So, we owe it, to be honest, and that was the last case. However, unless it is mandatory for the Commission, and it is not obvious, I am actually calling on Parliament to adopt the proposal of counterpart Emrić and to consider this. Here, the chairman here, we have men from the Council of Ministers, we have a corresponding quorum and let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25364	Just to remind you that any proposal to include the agenda item requires a written request. Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25365	Thank you, Your Honor. I appreciate and respect what Mr. Lovrinović was talking about. I just want to say why, in my opinion, the urgency, once again to mobilize us all in some way, we're the last ones left. The European Commission has recommended that the Council make a decision on opening accession negotiations with Macedonia and Albania, the rest of Bosnia and Herzegovina last. So we have to react to people, so for four years we've been sitting here we haven't done anything about it, we've all overrun us, we used to be at the top, something's going on. That's why I'm saying that we need to talk about this, and that's what Macedonia and Albania have praised, which is why they haven't praised us, here, let's talk about it. Mladen
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25366	Thank you. jasmin Emrić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25367	I thank the chairman. In last session of this distinguished House, I also suggested that it be considered, means last time, the European Commission's 2018 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then you, the Honorable Chairman, said there was no written request. I also delivered a written request today, and we got the material earlier, and we had the material when we called the emergency session of this distinguished House, we had it at the last session, we have it now. Therefore, I believe that there are all the conditions for the House to declare that the agenda item – Report of the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018 is being discussed at our session. The colleagues have already discussed the subject that there is no excuse that we are not considering this report today. The Joint Commission for European Integration did not meet last time, neither did it meet this time, and I don't think we should wait for their opinion. Obviously, there is no will to discuss 9 within the Commission on this subject, and this House cannot and should not be hostage to the Commission. We have serious problems in the commission's work, I don't know if that's why this pre-election year or something, but I think we all have a duty to come to the Commission's meetings and work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure so this House doesn't like the commission. So, I ask all MPs to support this proposal and to discuss today's European Commission Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25368	We have received your request and there will be a vote on the proposal. Nikola Špirić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25369	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. In fact, I am afraid that we are entering a phase, but which has been going on for a long time, therefore, that this Parliament is showing one little blood that is hardly able to move Bosnia and Herzegovina's integration processes into the European Union. In fact, the European Commission's report is cruelly honest. So it's a recording of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the report cannot be changed, but this Parliament can, the Council of Ministers, inform us what it has done to launch European integration processes. Here in this Report, the point, therefore, is said on page seven – the failure to adopt the laws of the reform agenda negatively affected tensions between ruling coalition parties, the implementation of a number of reforms was delayed due to lack of agreement between the ruling coalition. Can we parliamentarians serious about the ruling coalition working on the European path, and this is about the coordination mechanism, the election law has not been amended, the excise duties, the handover of questionnaires, the rule of law, the fight against terrorism, the functioning of the market economy. I am also afraid today if the Council of Ministers is unable to offer us measures that will change the next report to be more positive, that we will have a superficial debate because at the surface level this Parliament is since the constitution itself. No one can tell us more directly than the report says. I don't mind putting the report today as a part of the agenda, but I'm afraid there's going to be an empty debate without that. When was the report submitted? Three months ago. Do we have any active action by the executive authority apropo of this report? Is there anyone who wants to be a part of the agenda, can we today come up with our own role to push the process of European integration or is there a game here that will suggest some point of the agenda? So I don't mind if we're ready to discuss the essence. And another question for the chairman of the House of Representatives, three months ago I asked for one item of the agenda, which is – a debate on the security situation from the corner of the Minister of Security's statement on the existence of a paramilitary, parapolitan, intellectual influence, analyst on the security situation and the impact of the migration crisis, three months ago on possible security concerns. It was adopted, so as far as I know, we made a decision at the previous session that it would be the point of the agenda. I ask you – does it really not matter in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Today read the media of Germany and you will see, either countries in the environment, or European countries dealing with it much more seriously, and we have a crisis, therefore, within the country I ask you to do that point or say why you don't put it or no problem, if the ideal situation is to tell people everything's okay, or there's no willingness to discuss it or the Council of Ministers doesn't forward the material as a basis for discussion, but we have to have an answer why the point isn't put in three months. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25370	Thank you. So, we have referred, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the decision of this Parliament, to the Council of Ministers for a statement on the proposal to maintain that point. We didn't get any answers about that. This, I think, is called around, I will paraphrasise – on the disturbing statements of Minister Mektić, and now what happened to this and what are disturbing statements, perhaps we should specify that and then ask for the re-urgent and concreteisation of requests to the Council of Ministers. Dušanka Majkić, the debate. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25371	Don't blame the quote, I've got...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25372	You haven't been reported, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25373	Discussion, brother.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25374	Shall we give Mr. Šprić? - Oh, my God. - Oh,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25375	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25376	In fact, the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international public were shocked by statements of the existence of paramilitary and parapolitanism, of extremist groups, of the role of individuals, of intellectuals who violate the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. No one denied it. The lie has also damaged Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore, within Bosnia and Herzegovina and outside. The migrant crisis is a serious problem. So, we don't need it here, we need information from the Council of Ministers, which may involve the minister, but this Parliament cannot observe that people are disinformation and that they think it's okay. It doesn't matter if it's a Republika Srpska entity, or a Federation or at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This Parliament must know whether or not it exists. If he doesn't, then it's the minister's relationship, if there is, let's see what we can do. So that information was the subject of considering the world's most powerful media. Do you think it's luck for Bosnia and Herzegovina? No, but if most people think they should put it under the carpet, I'm afraid we're wrong. So, you don't have to put it on, we're going into an election campaign, I feel like we're better off having more problems than the situation is okay. Thank you very much. There's no more than security.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25377	Okay. In any case, this will be the item of the agenda immediately after obtaining information from the Council of Ministers. Mrs. Majkić, you gave up? - Oh, my God. - Oh,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25378	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25379	Sign up.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25380	Come on, please sign up again, so I'll give you my word right now. Dušanka Majkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25381	Thank you very much. Here, I'd like to say a few words about point 18, these are the recommendations for reforming the energy sector. Proposers have called for Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, which treats the recommendations, states here that the recommendation is an act pointing to the importance of certain issues relating to law enforcement. So I remind you that the area of energy is the jurisdiction of the entity and I don't know what law we should act on. The second thing, to raise one question from the context of the issue that we need to discuss about the Commission report is incorrect. If we were, the question is, would this come if we had discussed the report? I must remind you that it's not just an energy area where we didn't bring strategic documents. This is also the area of public administration reform, employment, public finances and there is an exact mechanism that has agreed to go further through the programme, through the coordination mechanism. Why this is going on like this now, it's hard to explain, and probably those who signed know what their argument is. So, things don't work because the coordination mechanism doesn't work. This is an attempt to get away, to pass the path, and to impose on other levels that are therefore competent to do something that stands here. So, completely absurd and unnecessary to discuss this beyond the European Commission report, which has been here on the wallpaper for a long time.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25382	Thank you. I didn't hear, did you suggest pulling this point?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25383	To take it off.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25384	Fehim Škaljić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25385	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, good afternoon. 12 From today’s agenda, I am asked what does the College do? Is it creating sessions of Parliament or just forwarding, is it working with the Council of Ministers? 11 points have been removed, there are no laws from the Council of Ministers, what we have are amendments and additions to what the individuals have given. Afterwards, we are also given an initiative by Members on the migrant crisis, on property, on the reform of the energy sector, all together saying that we approach this business on a flat-rate basis and... I guess you could rewrite, invent, one law at a session, at least as a necessary evil, to say that we are a legislative authority and to justify that role. There's not one. If we are all about changes and additions, we have come down to the initiative of the individuals, and the strategic definitions of the role of the legislator are lagging behind. That's why I am...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25386	Mr. Škaljić, just to remind you that the agenda item is to change and supplement the agenda. If you have a proposal okay, if this isn't a debate...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25387	If you're not comfortable with what I'm saying, you can continue this for a few months in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25388	You can say whatever you want, I'm warning you only on the agenda, so you're free to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25389	Warn yourselves of what you do as a College, and let us messengers speak in the name of the people. I am so as to include in the agenda a point that will begin the debate on the European Commission's report. It's something that has to be discussed in the long run, we can't finish it today, but it's important to start. The world is changing, the circumstances in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located have changed, and we have to change if we don't want to be pushed out of it. That's why we need to analyze in this House that to see how others look at us, what our assignments are. And why wait, there is no need to wait for the start of the European Union's process towards us to be in the way of modernization and modern Bosnia and Herzegovina. We can also adopt European laws without the start of the process and we must not waste time. I suggest we put a debate on the European Commission's report on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25390	Okay, that's already proposed. Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25391	The wrong quote is from my colleague, Majkić. So, the recommendations that are given here absolutely do not touch the jurisdiction of anyone and anyone. Even if we didn't have such remarks, it would be good if the colleague had read the recommendations before she discussed it, so that we wouldn't have any such remarks, I had, as one of the signatories, sucked into some of the formulations here, and among other things, taking into account constitutional jurisdiction and the existing legal framework, which clearly points to a framework in which our recommendations are moving. What's here is what we've accepted and accepted by the signing of the entity president of the government, the current president of the Republic, we're not very good at forgetting. If we read this, I will say this if this is on the agenda, if not, of course, I will not speak more widely, but when we read these four recommendations, we will see that these four recommendations are in the spirit of what counterpart Špirić spoke about the European future of Bosnia and Herzegovina, progress towards the European Union, and, here, a statement, among other things, and Parliament on this or a declaration of Parliament's will, and nothing here but the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is required to inform this Parliament every six months about the realisation of these recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25392	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25393	kolega. Novaković, if we don't want everyone to prepare well for what we're proposing then we put it in at the last minute, after the anthem, because then that's enough argument that people can't get a good look at it. But I have looked at what is crucial, and I want to tell you that the point of this is that the Ministry of Foreign Trade is in charge and economic relations with them to coordinate and monitor the implementation of recommendations and report to Parliament in co-operation with the relevant ministries. Now let me tell you that there is no constitutional basis for building a strategy at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to energy, but that the government is the Republika Srpska and the National Assembly, that they have proposed a way to deal with it and that's the module mechanism. Republika Srpska finished its module, but did not finish the Federation and I think the minister was competent to do for the Federation what it should look like, that the unification of all modules is done within the framework of the strategic document, i.e. the framework bodies that we formed for it. And it doesn't work, it doesn't work, nobody talks about it. The key thing is that the situation is like this because the coordination mechanism only worked to fill out the questionnaires, for nothing else. That's why you flew in here before time, not respecting what the mechanisms are agreed on by the highest structures of this country, of all levels. So we can't run out before the time, we should wait for everyone to do their job.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25394	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25395	I'm not sure we read the same paper. Here it says more than clearly that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, according to the entity governments' statement, therefore, has no positive representation of entity governments, no job for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, clearly as a day, and no strategy at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there is no approximation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the European Union, and they have sanctions on the application of the energy package, but that is now another, another kind of story. We're talking about what it says here, if someone is reading what doesn't say, then I have to say that I didn't sign anything that doesn't say here, but you did sign a lot of 14 that doesn't say here in the energy field as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Skopje, which is perfectly legal and legitimate and in accordance with the powers of the Government of the Republic of Cyprus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25396	Thank you. Debate, Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25397	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's my address and discussion concerns, and then it's in favour of all the colleagues who have proposed and said that today should put an end to the agenda for the European Commission's 2018 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm not going to repeat those reasons that are already listed, but I'm going to say another thing. Therefore, I think it would be appropriate for Parliament and the Council of Ministers to open one item at the end of the term of office and to open such a debate purely because of the recapitulation and reports of the Council of Ministers which they have done since 2015 when they entered office until the end of this term. Those who remember well the address of the Council of Ministers' chairman when he became chairman, then said in his address and presentation that Bosnia and Herzegovina would receive candidate status for a member of the European Union by the end of this term, so by the end of 2018. It would be interesting to hear today, if he told us here in front of parlament what the reasons and the reasons why it didn't happen, and not only had it not happened, but Bosnia and Herzegovina is significantly in regression compared to some neighbouring countries that are making far faster progress on that path. So, I think I support the proposal that today there is absolutely room for this point, to adopt this proposal by fellow Emrić and discuss it. The chairman is certainly there, he is most invited on behalf of the Council of Ministers to talk about it, to give us some information. Not to mention that they are here in the Report, so if we take it as a starting material, the report on page 3 speaks very clearly and precisely by the European Commission what who did and how much who did on these activities related to the European integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So you will read that, for example, it tells the BiH Presidency that it has been dealing with the delivery, and has exhausted the display of conflicting views in the area of foreign policy, that the Council of Ministers has been told that a number of reforms have been delayed due to the lack of agreement within the ruling coalitions, which refers to the Council of Ministers, so it is analysed what the Federation government has done, what the Government of Republika Srpska has done, what the Government of Brcko District has done. And given that there is often a cry here in Sarajevo for Republika Srpska and its institutions that reportedly representatives of Republika Srpska are obstructing the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you will see in this report that, however, the Republika Srpska government has been told that it has made the most of its contribution and has done so through harmonisation of legal regulations, economic reforms and everything else it has done on the agenda, in the Action Plan and in the Reform Agenda on the path of Bosnia and Herzegovina's European integration. So, I think today is a place and an opportunity to take advantage of while the chairman is here to give us some information to match our discussions and the questions we will have for him. I don't think that, if you planned as a Kolegijum to put this agenda item on the next session, I don't think the Commission will be able to meet or give its opinion until the next session, and for a story like this, maybe it was time and the beginning of this year, and not now. in the sense that we would all make a contribution if certain things could be fixed. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 15
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25398	Thank you. The debate, Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25399	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the College, as well as everyone present in the O.R. I would like to add some details about this final point, which as a proposal is included in the agenda, maybe a little bit of detail about this discussion. What we have had the opportunity to hear so far as to speak as if we have never talked about the energy sector, the problem of the energy sector, the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we have taken over by signing the Agreement with the Energy Community and all other problems related to the implementation of those projections of the development of the energy sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is clear to all of us that we did not have the strength to face and face key questions about what we want from this country and what this Parliament can do to make the situation better in this country. I'll just give two examples, one example, here's the energy sector, and another example is education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So both sectors have been halted even though what is expected of the energy sector is the largest investment operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the last 50 years. And that's one extremely serious question, it requires money, the European Union is offering us money, we don't want to take that money, we don't want to take what's at our disposal to defend some of the principles that no foundation in any serious projection, let's say the energy sector, is gone. In view of the way these recommendations have occurred, I do not understand these recommendations in such a dramatic way as to disabling any level of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the contrary, this can also be a cohesion factor that will link all levels of government which, of course, want to address the problem of the energy sector. And because of all of this, I think it is really very important that we have this issue on the agenda and that we support the recommendations in a way that they recommend and motivate those sectors in Bosnia and Herzegovina that are responsible for these issues, to work and to make one, as I would say, a system that will coordinate and monitor all, all investments, to say so because it is a huge issue, and all other activities related to the energy sector. I think it's good to accept one of these initiatives, and I think that the initiative of the colleagues who have submitted it is quite correct and I don't see any particular reason not to support it, because I don't think it endangers anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25400	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25401	Col. Đonlagić, everything would be fine if you had looked back at either of these two things you listed, nor education, nor energy, in the jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in its entities. And then at least to stop, we can't make final decisions that are related to those two areas without respecting the competences of those who are. So, we expect to change the education laws at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and ask for them to be applied by the one whose jurisdiction is absurd, you have seen it yourself with several attempts to change. You're not the only one who thinks something needs to be changed in education, that story is being run at different levels, but where it's jurisdiction. ...this thing to talk about, because they need to talk through 16 coordination mechanisms for those in charge. It's not the Foreign Trade Ministry, which is an attempt here, which is crucial to put itself in the position of the one who has to decide on it, but the coordination mechanism tells exactly who and how it decides. It's just that there's been a mistake in this... You spoke.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25402	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25403	I thank the chairman. First of all, there are some things being brought out here, I really don't know why some people inside their clubs at least don't consult. As for these recommendations in 2008, the then ethnic prime ministers and the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers, Mr Branković, Dodik i Špirić, signed an agreement to adopt a framework energy strategy. These recommendations make it clear – with the entity's statement, in co-operation with entities. I don't believe that these recommendations, here I can, perhaps Mr. Novaković may have made a mistake, but I don't believe that dear colleague Lazar Prodanović signed this without consulting with the entity government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25404	Thank you. Mirsad Đonlagić, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25405	Thank you. You know, I'm really sorry to have to refer to my colleague Majkić's discussion for one simple reason. I have no claim that I am the only one in this country who stands for something, it does not occur to me, but the fact that there is a Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina that adopted this Parliament has given me the right to try to intervene on certain members of the Law and in such a way that something tries to show that we want to change something. That was my goal. If that's where I was wrong, here's my apology and I'm sorry I made such a mistake. As far as the energy sector is concerned, I can't understand that two, two entity levels can't agree and that if they can sign agreements with the Energy Community to get Bosnia and Herzegovina that money, they can sign it if they can, but they can't, that's the point. I talk all the time, give that money to take what we need. We have every penny we can win. We have to fight for it and stand for it. If it is a proof of willingness to advocate and motivate, and I have not derivated anyone, it does not occur to me that no level of government in this country I derogate, nor that I am changing the structure of the government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I think this, this act does not try to do anything about it, but rather motivates all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina to work with the goal of taking the money that we need so much when it comes to the energy sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25406	Thank you. Discussion, Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25407	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to, perhaps for one of the agenda points today, direct an initiative that would represent part of the agenda by wanting to show the good things that are happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I want the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, this assembly, and the BiH Council of Ministers headed by Prime Minister Mr. Zvizdić to give an official congratulations to young innovators from Zenica who made a 3D printer mold for a part of the patient's skull and saved a patient's life by technology that has not yet been applied in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor in the region. A complex reconstruction of the right half of the head bone is done after severe cranial injury. A patient with standard methods that have been applied to the swing so far... couldn't be saved and his life wouldn't be saved. I would like to point out that this is the first time, therefore, that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a project like this has been implemented, but therefore beyond, in the region. This represents a very successful collaboration of the Machine Faculty in Zenica and the Cantonal Hospital in Zenica. At the head of the team were Dr. Haki Bečulić and IDEAlab, Mr. Denis Spahić, therefore, from the machine's facility, a member of the ZEN3D, who first developed a 3D printer with their company. I think that as parliamentarians of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we should be proud that advanced technologies are being done in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think this deserves the Council of Ministers to invite, and the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, invite young innovators, to hand them a card and a charter of gratitude because this shows that Bosnia and Herzegovina in some segments is ahead of the region, and I think that's what my colleagues from Zenica deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25408	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25409	I thank the chairman. The 16th agenda only states that Mr. Senad Šepić's proposing point, and when you open the material of the four MPs, they are signed. I don't recognize all the signatures, I see that Mrs. Vajzović is one of the signers, so just to fix it. So they have four proposings that have proposed a agenda point and I think it's fair to include it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25410	Thank you. We're out of press releases. Mrs. Kapetanović, I didn't get any writing, maybe we can work it out this way past...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25411	... Mr. Chairman, if you allow this to be the conclusion of Parliament, I will be very grateful to you. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25412	If it is Parliament's conclusion? Then we have to put an end to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25413	If you'll excuse me. I agree with that, it's in print, so whatever you decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25414	And what do you think you should do with the initiative so it can be at the next session?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25415	That's fine, but I think it's very fresh, I think that...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25416	Then you have to deliver the written one to me now, here, I'll wait for you to write.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25417	Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, We'll leave it for the next session, I think today was the time to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25418	Thank you. So we're going to vote on the proposed changes to the agenda. First is before the article of Ambassador Šepić. The name of the agenda point – Information from the Council of Ministers on concrete activities undertaken to protect Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and in the process of adopting the Law on State Property Management in the Republic of Croatia. Prepare to vote. For 27, there are no, abstentions 10. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. I'm in, shall we? SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25419	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25420	A subsequent vote by the College's decision. Let's go to the next proposal to change the agenda. So, the promoters are MPs: Borjana Krišto, Nikola Lovrinović and Predrag Kožul, the agenda point is – Information on the implementation of the emergency plan and the implementation of activities related to the migrant crisis. 19 Prepare to vote. For 22, against six, abstention nine. There's a general and entity majority. We're going to put this point under regular number 15, 16, so between these two, after these reports. So, after the information, that's going to be point 15. We have a proposal from Jasmin Emrić, a new item of the agenda – Report from the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018. Prepare to vote. For 31, against four, abstentions two. There's a general and entity majority. And that's going to be the point of agenda 8. And according to the decisions taken now to expand the agenda, you'll get a new agenda. ♪ don't go in ♪ 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 61st session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The request of MPs Mladen Bosić, Aleksandra Pandurević, Nenad Lalić and Momčilo Novaković to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No. 01-02-1-1291/18, of 28.05.2018; 4. The request of MPs Mladen Bosić, Aleksandra Pandurević, Nenad Lalić and Momčilo Novaković to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No. 01-02-1292/18, of 28.05.2018; 5. Declaration of the House of Representatives to set a new deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-697/18, of 07.03.2018 (second reading); 6. Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH – Proposer: MEP Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1-762/18, since 16/03/2018 (the law in first reading); 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MEP Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalalica, No: 01-02-1-1189/18, since 15.05.2018 (first reading); 8. Report from the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, issue: 01,02-06-1004/18, of 18.04.2018 and number: 01-50-1-1021/18, of 24.04.2018; 9. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Export and Credit Agency of BiH for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-874/18, of 03.04.2018; 10. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Amir Fazlić, who reads: "The House of Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH proposes to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure - Proposer of MP Amir Fazlić (Law No: 01-02-1-668/18, of 05.03.2018), examines the matter by emergency legislative procedure", act No: 01-02-1-668/18, of 18.05.2018; 20 11. Report on the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption for the period 01 01 – 31.12.2017, issue: 05/8-04-785/18, dated 20.03.2018; 12. The second report of the monitoring of the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015 – 2019 and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015 – 2019 for the period May 2015 – December 2017 – applicant: Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination against Corruption, issue: 05/8-04-601/18, dated 26.02.2018; 13. Report on the implementation of the laws of the Central Election Commission of BiH in 2017 – applicant: Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-1190/18, since 15.05.2018; 14. Additional information on the implementation of the conclusions of the 45th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives, material of the BiH Direct Taxation Authority, issue: 01/3-50-3-21/17, link: 01-50-1-15-45/17, since 19.03.2018; 15. Information on the project PRO-Future and Peace Platforms – applicant: The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, issue: 01,02-37-1671/17, from 11.07.2017 (the delayed statement at the 61st session of the House, held on 17.05.2018) 16. Information on the implementation of the Emergency Action Plan and the implementation of activities related to the migrant crisis – Proposers of the point: Borjana Krišto, Nikola Lovrinović and Predrag Kožul, issue: 01-50-1115/18, since 30.05.2018. 17. Report on the reasons for not taking the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security of BiH into full membership of the European Organisation for the Security of Quality in Higher Education (ENQA), with a concrete proposal for measures to eliminate observed weaknesses – applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH (realization of Salko Sokolović's parliamentary initiative, adopted at the 55th meeting in front of the voter's home, held on 21.12.2017, 17.01.2018), act No: 01-50-1-2527-1/17, since 30.03.2018; 18. Information on the current position, assessment of the readiness and ability of the Central Election Commission of BiH (CIKBiH) to organise and conduct fair elections in October 2018 – Proposers: MEPs Senad Šepić, Hanka Vcajzovi, jasmin Emrić and Zaim Backović (number: 01-50-1-2527-1/17, since 30.03.2018; 19. Discussion on the work, activities and procedures of the CEC of BiH in the light of the upcoming general elections and the need to be organised in a fair and fair atmosphere – Proposers: MPs Damir Arnaut and Saša Magazinović (number:01-50-1-999/18, since 20.04.2018).; 20. Recommendations for reforming the energy sector – Proposers: MPs Momčilo Novaković, Hanka Vajzović, Saša Magazinović, Predrag Kožul, Mirsad Isaković, Lazar Prodanović and jasmin Emrić, material number: 01-28-1300/18, since 29.05.2018. In the agreement of the College for this session after commenting on the answers received, so it does not refer to the point – Comments on the answers received, we reduce the discussion to five minutes. We're going to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the Minutes of 61st from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. 21 Let's go to point two, Ad. 2. Comments to get do not answer parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25423	I thank the chairman. I asked the question in early March – whether the Council of Ministers has information on the possibility of mass inflow of migrants to migrant routes that go through Bosnia and Herzegovina, the intention of migrants in other countries to be directed towards our country, and a huge increase in the number of migrants in the first three months of this year, that is, what the Council of Ministers is doing and what it intends to do to mitigate the consequences of the more serious migration crisis that threatens Bosnia and Herzegovina. The answer I have received these days and I must say that the answer came from the Ministry of Security and in accordance with the powers of this Ministry the only possible answer I am satisfied with. I'd just like to say that it's not the only Ministry of Security to be involved in this, solving this situation, and that's the only reason I wrote to the Council of Ministers, not at the very beginning of the Ministry of Security. What this document says is that the increase in migrant inflows in the first three months increased by 941% compared to the same period last year. Although that's a huge percentage here in this document it's said it's still a situation under control. Interestingly, it is also given an overview of the registered illegal migrants, where four, or five, countries, Syria, Pakistan, Libya, Afghanistan and Iran prevail. We have this latest information on, under quotes, the legal entry of the citizens of Iran through Belgrade and loved to have more information in the coming period about it and whether it is accurate information that all flights to Belgrade in the period until summer are fully filled and that it is one of the, one of the routes of the arrival of migrants in 22 Bosnia and Herzegovina which is kind of legal, is it. On the other hand, it is very interesting in this document that, the claim that the data available to the Ministry of Security show that migrants do not want international protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or that there is an abuse of the asylum system, and that Bosnia and Herzegovina serves as a country of transit, not as a final destination, as well as information on operational actions both in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albatross, and in Serbia Penta, which resulted in the arrest of those who, i.e. by deprived of the freedom of persons suspected of committing the criminal part of the organisation of a group or association for the execution of the criminal part of migrant smuggling. However, in addition to being satisfied with this response from the Ministry of Security, I think this is a question in which he cannot, and I repeat, and must not only participate in the Ministry of Security, but rather the Council of Ministers as a whole. And, look, I'm glad to have this agenda today where we're going to see and what other ministries have done, and I know there have been activities, according to my grades, too late, but anyway, let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25424	Thank you. Commentary, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25425	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I have the answers to two questions asked. First of Mr. Skako, mayor of Sarajevo, therefore, who is in haste and desire to answer me as nicely and better, even shortened my last name, but well, what will you do, and then answered me that in the Statute of the City of Sarajevo, I asked what kind of national composition of the city's administration of Sarajevo, and what in the municipalities that make up the city of Sarajevo, he replied only to me for the city of Sarajevo, and this left me to the mayors of the municipalities, and then explained to me the Statute, how it was regulated by the statute, and he, as mayor using the Statute, had the opportunity and the right to, therefore, be 15-20% of the constituent peoples. So he convinced me of the Statute of the City of Sarajevo, and I asked him – what is the situation, did you implement that Statute? He will obviously get a new question to clarify this or he could have sent me the Statute, so that I look at it, I don't need him to explain to me what he is, but, therefore, it's important to me to answer it and he will get it again – whether he respected what it says in the Statute and what his powers are and I will remind him that my full last name is Lovrinović. And the second answer I received from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council was my question – is it true that the President of the Court of Justice in Bihać reported Judge Reuf Kadrić, who in the case of Šantić, on application, did not take all the actions he was supposed to take, if correct, what did your office do? Then they answer to me that they received it from that judge and said, among other things – however, the complaint does not refer to the failure to take the action of that judge. We cannot provide you with more detailed information in view of the confidentiality of the complaint provided for in the Article. So nothing here is clear to me. I needed to know if he got here and if they did anything. I'm not interested in these secrets at all, and he hasn't arranged anything here. So, unfortunately, I will have to ask the disciplinary judge again an additional question to answer what I asked him – did the judge in question get the application because he missed certain actions when he participated in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25426	Thank you. Commentary, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25427	Thank you very much. So, I thank the Administration for indirect taxation on the answer and just ask the supplement – what is the level of these appointments within the institution, now not to explain, so they know what it is, and if they can list these, review these appointed officers.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25428	Thank you. Commentary, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25429	I've never received a final answer to any questions asked so far. I recently set up for the Chinese Embassy, they were both here from the SIPA, and from the OSA, and the Minister of Security and the Minister of Justice, they were all here, and no one has answered yet, only orally – that's our assessment. A whole part of Sarajevo's settlement is blocked because of terrorists, citizens living upstairs. We up there, residents, can't be normal because they've blocked the approach and won't answer us for what. He says, at the request of the ambassador, he's afraid. There's never been a car damaged, there's a car stolen, there's an Excess, and to make grief a bigger complete street is under video surveillance because there's three embassies. Only China is doing this, and 18 parking places have been blocked by citizens, no place to park. Citizens demand that we be answered for why they do it, otherwise they want to block the entire approach to the Kosovo hill. That's one thing. Secondly, I have never received answers to the total funds spent on road construction. This Parliament seems to have no right to anything, to any information, except that we have received from the Directorate for indirect taxation answers, all other levels are being made crazy. They forget about donations, forget about budget funds, and so on, they won't answer either entity or cantonal directorates. What is the secret and why is it not possible for citizens to know how much total funds are invested in what is called infrastructure, or road construction to this day? It's clear why, but I guess one day the truth will come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25430	Thank you. Commentary, Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25431	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'd start with what you said, if I got a notice from the College, you are, MPs, members of this House of Representatives, it's a clear fact, and we can't ask colleagues in the House of Representatives, and that's clear to me, but you still have a specific position, you have certain powers, you have certain powers and I don't understand that you answer 24 that I don't have the right to ask you and that you didn't want to give me an answer. That's the same answer I got from the Court, you know, but in the opening part, but the BiH Court still agreed to provide me with an answer. I ask you not to use it, but you are, as I say, those who manage this House and, of course, you have certain obligations that are a little different than the obligations and rights of representatives, or representatives in the House of Representatives. I ask you to reconsider what you have said to me so that you can answer my question. The other two answers I received from the Minister, the Ministry of Transport, as well as from the Ministry of Finance, are answers which, with those answers, I am pleased, but I expect these two ministries of their jurisdiction to react and to bring adequate recommendations, measures or any other way at their disposal to intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25432	Thank you. Just to be clear, it is a practice from before that the College does not give answers to the question of the College, from before it is a practice, and your question, if I recall, was actually addressed to the College why the College received the European Union Progress Report, and it was not done before the House. So it was a request from the European Commission to do it like that, I'm giving you this as information, I guess the College will still remain on this principle that was previously adopted not to give answers to the directly asked question. We have no further comments on the answers received. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. The request of MPs Mladen Bosić, Aleksandra Pandurević, Nenad Lalić and Momčilo Novaković to consider the Proposal for a Law amending us The Law on the Public Radio and Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No. 01-02-1-1291/18, of 28.05.2018 You got the bill. I would perhaps suggest that we unite the pro-Cedure of this emergency debate and otherwise these two points, 3rd and 4th, to unite and discuss them together. That's what I need a statement to make. Prepare to plead. For 23, against four, abstentions 10. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. So my proposal wasn't accepted. What do we do for the second round of voting? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25436	He didn't answer...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25437	He was reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25439	Can I ask you to sign up again? There's a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25440	It's just, I've seen this attempt to reconcile between two members of the College, just to remind you that only three members of the College can agree that you don't have that mistake, especially when you lack a Bosniak member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25441	Okay, thank you. I'm opening a debate on the third item of the agenda. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25442	Thank you. I would like to point out that the third member was present in the O.R., so, when Mr. Šefik Džaferović was voted on, it does not say that he was not present at the session, as well as his colleague Asim Sarajlić, so he is already present to you, I do not know if he is visible to you, but he is in the O.R. and he voted.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25443	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25444	Here, to get out of this situation since a second round of voting is necessary, I'm looking for a 15-minute break. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25445	How long?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25446	15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25447	15 minutes off. [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. I'm opening a debate on the third item of the agenda. Aleksandra Pandurević. So this is a debate about an emergency procedure for a motion to change the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25449	I thank you, Chairman. Why emergency procedures? The emergency procedure because we have a limited number of sessions by the end of this term and so that, after the cancellation of the tv tax, the budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution and the entity budgets can be responded in due time, as well as the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entity budgets to plan the funds for the next year for the financing of public broadcasters. I'm not going in, I mean, that's the basic reason for the urgency of this procedure, so we can finish up and have budgets in time for next year. The reason why to abolish the RTV tax is very much, one of them, is that TV tax should provide independence, impartiality of public services, and we see, here we have also reported and monitoring the Regulatory Agency for Communication that our public services are neither independent nor impartial, nor professional. Here, I consider it personal, and that's one reason, it's impossible that you don't have at the public service a set of 10-15 thousand citizens, and that same public service that night you have a party leader handing over 20 tickets from the dagger, and 15 thousand people are not news to that public service. Or that the same public service with those citizens who pay it, with those, among other things, 10 to 15 thousand people in Krajina Square proclaims, conveys some tabloid information, proclaims them, I don't know, colored revolutionaries, to tear down Republika Srpska, etc. We find that inadmissible, that the Public Service has not fulfilled its role and purpose. Maybe he should be a state service. Nevertheless, in practice, there is a practice in a good part of the European countries that public services are not financed from the RTV subscription. There, so much, I mean, I'm not really going to get into the content of the law, I focused primarily on the reasons for the emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25450	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25451	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 27 So, as a member of the Club to which I belong and chair, we will not be able to accept a haste procedure in either case or not, that I do not report later, or we will see if there is a need, so in the next point, first of all, that seemingly simple change, a change that, as nothing special, solves some financial situation in the public TV system. It's not a simple change at all, so this is a systematic law, and I'm just going to remind you that we're the whole mandate, so I'm going to remind you, with various suggestions, we've been trying to solve the issue of fees for the RT system. And then I remember well when we were reviewing some of the materials that it was in neighbouring countries I didn't come across anywhere to finance it from the budget. That is the question, therefore, of this very independence which Mrs Pandurević spoke of, and the other thing, therefore, to be state services, it is also a serious change, if that is what it is going to be. So this would be a major blow to the independence of these media. I am in my time not to be unfair, therefore, sometimes I have suggested that the budget should be helped once before all this budget of RTV BiH when they were in the crises they were in, but that this should be dealt with systematically, it is very important and necessary. And, here, we've come about to the end, by the end of the term of office, we haven't found a solution, but this is how we change, fundamentally, the funding of the Public TV System by a hasty procedure, I don't think it's acceptable, that this is impossible, that it should still be returned to some regular procedure if any of this is meant to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25452	Thank you. Vice-President Džaferović Šefik. Here you go. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25453	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. As we have already been able to hear, we have been dealing with the problem of funding public, the public broadcasting system in Bosnia and Herzegovina almost this whole mandate, and we have not managed as Parliament to adopt any solution, but the provisions of the existing law have been, happily, as they are and then taken by the Management Board and the management of the system measures to ensure that the system is fully preserved because it has threatened the danger of the system being destroyed and an important one collapse, I would say freely, the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina that should operate according to its rules, but it is certainly a very important and very important institution in this country. It is very dangerous for these laws to enter into this problem without knowing what to do with the system and how it will be financed, so that the SDA will not support an emergency procedure, nor will it support the content of these laws itself. The content of the law, I believe, is not the aim of the promoter, but it is set so that it can break the public broadcasting system in Bosnia and Herzegovina and is set so that if the provisions of the System Law were to be put out of force, the question is what would happen to the provisions on state service and provisions on entity services. That is why I propose that, when we have not already succeeded as Parliament in doing what our business is, there was no political will, that we do not go in this direction either. So, against emergency procedures and whatever procedure he's in, against the content of the law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25454	Thank you, colleague Džaferović. The word has been addressed by Mladen Bosić, the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25455	Well, I think that we slave with stereotypes and that our entire political activity is predetermined by our opinion that has been formed a long time ago, that if any other side suggests that this is certainly bad, you don't have to go into the essence of the proposal at all, but you're deciding in advance that you're going to be against something like that. I ask you to consider this proposal. If I were, first of all, at the place of citizens, satisfied with this proposal, if I were a public broadcaster, I think public broadcasters have an interest in supporting this proposal. Republika Srpska's radio television has an interest in stable funding and does not depend on making various charges, taxis on TV receivers, and I do not know all the formulations. Isn't federal television interested in stable funding? And I don't think that's what you should do at the expense of other things. There is a solution, we propose to eventually get rid of it from a percentage that will be taken from excise duties already determined on fuel and collected in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that they were pre-named is clear from the fact that over 100 million are already sitting on accounts in banks that no one uses because of an internal argument, so they weren't necessary. And wouldn't that be a solution for citizens, and for public broadcasters and, after all, I think that if you think about it, we could all come to the conclusion that we've done something that's good for each side. So I'm asking you not to draw conclusions ad hoc, but to think, can we get the strength to find some solution that at least a millimeter will move this situation that's bad? So citizens are dissatisfied, journalists, or public service workers, are dissatisfied, and this raises many other issues, and this affects the political situation in both the Republika Srpska and the Federation. I don't understand why anyone would oppose this system, first of all, it's fair, let each of their incomes be financed by that public, its public broadcaster, the Federation of Federal Television, Republika Srpska's television, why some citizens would pay, and some citizens would not pay a fee, so they would solve that question too. Well, you have whole regions that don't pay taxes and it's clear that they don't pay and publicly say that they don't pay and nothing happens, and you have regions and courts that immediately, within two months, react and very soon people come to collect property unless they pay a RTV tax. So there's a series of unresolved questions. We're offering a simple solution, but I can see there's a blockade at the start. But you see, even if it's not an emergency procedure I think we're going to have a debate about this in any case, how the public reacted to this initiative that came from the SDS Club clearly indicates that this issue needs to be resolved, that there is support for the public that this way of paying the tv tax is lifted. Correction of the false quote, Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25456	Good afternoon, everyone. Well, I want your guilty quote corrected, Your Honor. So, I wouldn't want it to get the impression out of here, at least on behalf of the club where I take part, and my colleague, the president of the Lovrinović klub, expressed the club's position on the issue, in the first order of the emergency procedure, because we are discussing it. Therefore, there is no stereotype, prejudice, ad hoc and apriori view of a certain law based on aprior attitudes or advocacy. What is there is is that it is very unserious to propose under the emergency procedure of the law in which it writes in its explanation – for the realisation of legal solutions the necessary funds should be provided in the budgets of BiH and entities for 2019 based on subsequent credits. It was unserious at any time, and here these financial resources are not small, to propose such a law, and then when it is within the constitutional jurisdiction of the proposings, and here, I don't need it, I believe that there will be others who will say it much more thoroughly, I don't need to say that here was the previous, agreement, agreement... So when we talk about an emergency procedure for this kind of law, it's really totally inappropriate.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25457	Thank you. Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25458	Mr. Chairman. I don't agree with what they say they don't see in these discussions of stereotypes, mantras, some, I'd say, a completely impotent policy that has no solution, no attitude, no vision whatsoever, but it just has to say that – I won't, I don't know, I'm against it. It's a god-awful blow to a country that some people think is a state or, therefore, they're guarding their own private state. So I think this should be considered in this form, that this deserves open and fair discussion and debate. I get the feeling that only those who have their extended hands in a system like this, the public TV system, are struggling to stop talking about this. And when you talk about whether there are funds, so I remind you that we are like the Independent Block Club, when there was a story about excises, then we suggest that one of those 15 fenings be directed to these purposes. So, if we weren't to question the functioning of the Public TV Service, on the other hand, to make it impossible for us to actually have this kind of political relationship both with these blackmails and with the negative relationship of these, I would say, retrograde political projects and political parties that are really a burden to one functional, to develop a functional state, to make it impossible for them to block these processes. So that's why in this sense, here, I support this one debate. If it goes into this other shortened or regular procedure, we may have some suggestions on how to further improve it, but that we should, that we should discuss it and that in this sense we should seek some proactive solutions entirely to the side of the promoter in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25459	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25460	I thank the chairman. Mr. Bosić said the initiatives are falling – only because some other side is proposing. However, you, at least to me, seem to be playing two sides here right now. The SDS is proposing something, the SDA is defending something and you will run the campaign, but you, the SDA and the SDS, agree immediately on the fill-up of the Board of Directors of BHRT, specifically on the appointment of Mufid Memija, who was third-placed on the range list of RAKs accepted by the Commission of this Parliament, but you, the two sides with HDZ as the third-party, ignored that list and appointed the third-placed one, as I have already stated, and the third-placed one was easy to agree, because then he, third-placed with the other members of the Management Board, immediately agreed to appoint a person on social networks to celebrate war criminals. We will not support this bill as we did not support your rank list with 30 third-placed on it which you have easily agreed on, and here, as you pretend to do something and defend something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25461	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25462	The chairman, please, this is a matter of procedure. We are not on the agenda or the report on BHRT's work, and please urge your colleagues to stick to what's on the agenda. I don't see who's guilty here was or anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25463	Thank you. Nermina, Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25464	I initially quoted your quote, Mr. Bosić, as saying he was guilty and then corrected it and that allowed me to do Article 76 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25465	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25466	The chairman, I too now have a dilemma as to whether the correction is a false assumption or a breach of the Rules of Procedure or both. I didn't understand Mr. Šepić's point of view when he mentioned retrograde political parties and projects that have their extended hands in public TV services. The brave say what they think and say the name of the political parties, or individuals, so I expect that, it would be normal for you to mention who you mean, because you give such a difficult qualification about someone's extended hands of public TV services that we all stand for, and I'm quite certain of every fellow who works here that we want independent public TV services, then you limit it to the insult of the person you addressed, so the chairman has that possibility in his Rules of Procedure, of course, to sanction if he considers it necessary. As for the SDA as something to defend along with the SDS, so did the SDA, chose a third-rate candidate, thank Bog that this third-placed candidate, Mr. Memija, was the only one against the appointment of Mr. tvrtka Milović, whom we know to have publicly offended the terrible sacrifice of children, killed children of the City of Sarajevo, all, therefore, of all religions, so not Bosniak children, but children who had an omen of child life. It was a smudge at the expense of the number of children killed, it was said that the number has been increasing since the day Haris Pašović set his performance on the killed children of Sarajevo. And thank Bog that such a man 31 was chosen who was the only one who had the courage to oppose the choice of gentleman..., or as his last name is, I don't know, who I personally had nothing against, but Mr. Tvrtko Milović did commit one sin and I'm sorry to mention today his name is here, because so far I thought he was my friend, but here he is. So, I don't think the remarks were in place, and I'd like to make it clear who has extended hands at the Public TV Service, and the name and last name, and the political party, and the person who said it, and Mr. Chairman, you have the opportunity to show one measure for such an insult and a difficult qualification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25467	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25468	I refer to what you said, Mr. Chairman. So, first of all, it is clear to everyone in this Chamber that the whole mandate, and more than that, we are saying that we are dissatisfied with the state of the public television system and the way it works, but it is also the fact that we have been trying to offer solutions throughout the mandate, so I will remind you, even by proposing some agencies to charge the tv fees. So let me remind you what we've done and done to help. And I'm going to tell you that we've prepared a full law that is currently in the House of Peoples, but because of the situation where we are, in which we entered the election year, here, let's wait a little while, and we'll see. So we are the only ones who may have worked most seriously to adapt the TV system to what needs to be served and why it exists. And you said, therefore, that usually with us in Parliament there was something against it just because someone else suggested it wasn't, eventually, whoever suggested it was, so I'm going to remind you that you did the same thing when he was, for example. Election law. So, just because HDZ suggested amendments to the Electoral Law, you were probably against it, was it? So, we could now... that here, as they say, we're hitting on each other to the unconscious who, what, when he did and did, and even when we can talk about excises, we're going to say that you're part of the parliamentary majority, and we'll see when he's the European Commission's report on who he was, what he was, who challenged the processes, etc. We could, therefore, talk for days, but the debate is about a hasty procedure and we said we wouldn't support a hasty procedure because this is a serious topic, this is, this would be a serious blow to media independence, we think, and it's not the solution you suggested, and we'll see what happens next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25469	Thank you. Discussion, Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25470	Thank you, Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome all my colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I want to remind everyone here present in the O.R. that the founders of entity services are entities, that there is a law that defines that area at the entity level and that is something that it is, I would say, a domestic product in the institutions of this country. On the other hand, I should remind all of us that OHR has imposed the Law on the public system and that today we have a lot of complex and complex 32 problems that this Parliament has tried to solve. I want to remind you, and this is what Mr Lovrinović was saying, that both through the Transport Commission and through Parliament, it has been seeking to come up with a specific solution that will address the issue of the RTT fee. I would like to remind you at that time that all the services and all the representatives of the entity authorities were involved in this process, and unfortunately we did not resolve this issue because, I would say, of the complex approach of different political positions in terms of functioning and systems and services. It further fits the situation definitely that the representatives of one of the constituent people are not satisfied with the treatment at the services and that is legitimate, no one disputes and further agreess the situation. The SNSD MPs' club will not support this urgent procedure nor the measure of the law from one post of emptyness which, according to our knowledge, none of the services has been treated when it comes to the content of this proposal on the one hand, on the other hand we have received a 15-20-minute official position of the ministry, requested yesterday, by the Ministry of the Republika Srpska Government, a negative position, where you are suggested that you withdraw this proposal. I believe that, this is completely unnecessary, that it will not be possible to resolve the issue of functioning, the financial functioning of the service, or the system in this way, if he hadn't included in this proposal relevant institutions, and these are representatives of the service and representatives of the competent authorities, first of all, I would say the founder, and these are entity governments and congregations, and I think that we will enter into one very, I would say, adventurous story if we start to discuss the metrics of such a bill because he, I would say, and allow me to have the right to such a thing, does not reflect the arguments you have made in public. There are very different arguments why this procedure is being initiated, it is quite clear to us, but we did not want to enter into arguments, and during the presentation itself, you presented some other arguments, some other, other arguments, but it is quite clear that this is not the way to discuss such complex matter in an urgent procedure, and especially not the kind of measure as you have suggested to us. And once again, I want to say that the SNSD's Club MP will not vote in favour of an emergency procedure, nor, if there is a debate on the scale, will he vote in favour of such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25471	Thank you. Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25472	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, here's a few sentences. I don't think we should support an emergency procedure, but we need this legal solution to lead to a regular and then we need to talk. I want to point out, I think this is a good proposal, I want to remind everyone that the people of this country are paying a tax, the residents, I mean the citizens, the people, and that these same residents are full of the budget. Therefore, we need to free them from one charge, so that they do not pay the tax, and then their funds will be in the budget and allocated to finance these services. Why did I insist on the European Commission report? Well, among other things, because of the focus on this problem when it comes to public broadcasters. So I'm going to use these four minutes to, and less, read, just to remind us what the European Commission is saying on this subject and what it is our obligation to ask it. And we, here, didn't want to fix it, we're spilling this demagogue who loves a country that doesn't like it. It's proven to be who loves her, and only a demagogue can talk about it after a microphone. So, when it comes to the European Commission public broadcasters, there is still no guarantee of the independence of three public broadcasters in the state within the public TV system. Public broadcasters in entities are still exposed to political influence, 33 especially through their boards of directors under policy control. They have been recorded worrying cases of auto-censorship, also in public TV, the Public TV System at the state level. Entity legislation on public broadcasters with the State Law on Public TV Service still needs to be harmonised. This sentence is crucial – funding of the Public TV service at the state level is still not sustainable. What did we do? Here, maybe one of the attempts. Due to political obstruction, the Management Board has not established a functional corporation of public broadcasters in the manner provided for in the law. The transparency of media ownership has not yet been fully achieved, nor has access to comprehensive information been ensured due to problematic legal provisions that make it more difficult to see the ownership structure. A law on transparency of ownership over the media has not yet been passed at the state level. Public broadcasters that are not part of the Public TV System are financed from municipal and cantonal budgets, and remain under the strong influence of politics, and not to speak any further. So this is the European Commission's assessment that we are deafening, or those who at this point are the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, have been deafening for many years. He's trying, like through the Excise Act, to take money from the people, to agree there somewhere 100 million, to get that capital dead, to wait for elections to be shared, to get votes, we're not able to solve. We're talking about the state, we're talking about public broadcasters, we're on state broadcasters, we're full of patriotism, and we're not full of ideas, or we're not going to solve the problem of funding state and entity broadcasters. Well, that's what we could do, we're better off taking 1% of the excise, and we've solved that problem, than we've taken, we've increased so much toll, we've put together money, we've told the people that we're going to build roads, and we're not doing anything. I ask you to get serious and that the problems we have, and here we are being warned from the European Commission, we are solving, not having a demagogue approach. I repeat it again and I want us all to remember it, I know we know it, I pay the tax, Bosnia and Herzegovina's population pays the tax most of the time, we all charge the budget together. Let's free the people of this country, the people of this country, from one charge, and through the budget, we will find very easy ways to finance, to finance not only this, but other institutions. The other thing is that we're trapped on one kid, when it comes to budget, so we can't finance them either. [[the speaker is warned on time]] the institutions for which we are in charge. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Small salaries in institutions, etc. But, well, that's the problem with the authorities, and I think in the next period...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25473	Thank you very much. SALKO Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25475	...or let or this authority make those funds be and that we can also fund this. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25476	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the College, Council of Ministers, esteemed guests. I'll remind you that, unsettled reasons for urgency. So, in almost all levels, the collection starts, so the budget funding requirement, and that's something that follows us in the next period, and that's why we appreciated that it would be good for this job to go by emergency procedure. Of course, as far as I'm concerned, we can open the debate, unless an emergency procedure is accepted, we'll be making arguments. But one thing is the fact that what we have today, which is that in Republika Srpska fees are done through the Incasant Service and that these funds remain the Radio-Television of Republika Srpska. The fact is that the Federation, the Federation of BiH Radio-Television, charges funds through the account of the Elektroprivreda BiH and that the funds are used by the public service. This proposal will not change anything compared to the state of play. So it will continue in Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska will finance Republika Srpska's Radio-Television, the Federation Radio-Television Federation, and Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget will be financed by BiH Radio-Television, with us, of course, having to determine the extent and level, the level needed, the need for this television. So, I, I really, I've been through the Commission these three years, 2/3 of the commission had on the agenda a session financing the service and we haven't found a solution and now we've come to have a solution that's on the big question whether it's in accordance with the law or not, so it's very, very questionable whether it's legal. This is an attempt to at least be legal and this attempt should not be observed from the position of any obstruction, but rather the opposite. Our intention was to try and solve it in a way that everyone financed their service. Today, the citizens of Republika Srpska are funding the Public Radio Television Service, and in this way they would finance it, with that tax not being, they would not have the cost of paying that fee, but could be used for other purposes, even for the needs of the service itself. So the incasant services they're doing today wouldn't be, because those funds would be paid over the budget. It seemed to me that the public service would be looking forward to this, so if you want the government of the entity. Why wouldn't I know? And another thing in the end, this should be a temporary solution. That was the case in Serbia, we saw how long this temporary solution lasted, so, it should, this should be a temporary solution until it is resolved in the security of funding and while even these services exist. I'm not talking about editorial policy, and neither do I, because if we asked the citizens that, then at least 50% wouldn't pay if they couldn't pay. In the Federation they can't pay, so they don't pay, in Republika Srpska they can't, so they pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25477	Thank you. Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25478	The need to seek a solution to public services is something we have been discussing for almost four years in this term in this composition. And every time we find a reason not to find a solution. We're looking for a solution that we're not going to adopt, we're doing everything we can to never solve it, and we're doing it by getting involved in what shouldn't have a response to public services, ethnically, religiously, partyly, and I don't know what it is anymore. Public services rather than being citizens' informers, that they are in the role of education of children, that they are in the role of encouraging this country, they are in the role of creating animosity towards another and different. In creating animosity towards non-eminents and so on. They're aware of that, citizens aren't crazy and citizens know that services are under the full influence of politics, whether they want to or not. And the choice of people my esteemed colleague Damir spoke of, he made that clear. 35 But let's get back to this. I'm not voting for this kind of procedure for the simple reason, for the interventions I'd like to make. I don't want us to get into a position like the canton constitution where the mouth is full of inequality, and the Constitutional Court determines what's going on under the constitutions, so the Srbin are absolutely unequal in half of the Federation, in half of the Federation, and Bošnjak in one section. It's something that's absurd over absurds because... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25480	Go on. Don't throw it away, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25481	I'm not going to talk about it because we need to find a solution in which we're going to have something that is a self-informator and in the function of education, and in no case something that is in the function of indocrine, lying and creating animosity. Woe to that state that doesn't have a public service, find me one that doesn't, one that's a state, I'm talking about the state, and we have a public service run by political parties. Therefore, this is not the public service of citizens, not all citizens of the same opinion and not all citizens are one political option. No political option that is in power has won 51% and more in our country, not one single person, not one person. By drilling into electoral legitimacy, we get what we get. We have electoral legitimacy if it is in power and with 5% of the votes won. The state, the people, chose him to rule with the 95%. Thank you. Thank you. Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25483	The correction of the wrong allegation refers to Mr Backović's exposure, which said that public services are in the function of creating animosity towards other political insinuationists in the function of indoctrination and lies. There are three public services in this country, Mr. Backović, and you should say the specific name and name you mean. If you think, and you can't speak so in general, if you mean RTRS in Republika Srpska then first, you're not You, not to say competent, but you have no right to claim it for RTRS because such findings do not stand. So the most common are the untruth and packaging of some, as I would say, things that do not stand and which are absolutely inappropriate in your comment as MPs. On the other hand, if you mean federal television and BH television, I don't dispute it, but in this situation, therefore, what is essential and what is finally coming from your discussion, your goal is to strengthen state television, therefore, BH television and this is obviously a request and a club that has submitted this initiative and asks for urgent debate on this Act. 36 It is strange for Mr Bosić that you are so concerned today that RTRS will be financed when RTRS is on the SDS list and the Alliance for Change of Institutions to be heard by the Republika Srpska, the Republika Srpska and RTRS government is on that list and you are now worrying about what resources RTRS has and what it will finance. Not to spread the story further, therefore, it is absolutely unacceptable to go by emergency procedure for many reasons that have been presented here, but this story of urgency or urgency is not a way and it is not a methodology for certain public services to put what does not stand, first of all, in RTRS.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25484	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25485	Dear Mrs. Marković, I spoke in plural all the time. I never once mentioned state or entity, I spoke in plural. There are three public services in this country and all three public services are citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. They're not the exclusiveity of any entity, and read it without a doubt what's in the law. I didn't say that. And if you're already asking me and pulling my tongue, yes, I'm also talking about Republika Srpska TV. The kind of vocabulary used by editors who use reporters or reporters is a vocabulary that makes no one who knows what it's about to start hating someone else. I can't afford it. But don't forget, I didn't speak in unity, I spoke in plural. You have such examples on both federal television and state television. We have simply put a difficult burden on the psyche of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I didn't let it be anybody's, I said it in the plural. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25486	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25487	I thank the chairman. It's very interesting how we got to the collapse of institutions. The Serbian Democratic Party created all these institutions, and the Radio-Television of Republika Srpska, and the Government, and the National Assembly, and the Republika Srpska MUP and those institutions are above all of us. We fight for these institutions to be in the service of citizens and not to be abused by individuals in the most unscrupulous way. And those who destroy those institutions are those who hide behind them and abuse them. Those who favour the Republika Srpska MUP are those who will not solve the murder in Banja Luka, those who destroy Republika Srpska's Radio-Television and its management. So please, is it normal for the head of RTRS information programme, Siniša Mihailović, to wear, to answer..., as Goran Suvara already says – Siniša Mihailović has brought me 40,000 euros. Are you Siniša? The Siniša isn't responding, so it is. Or this same Siniša Mihailović makes the daily Doboj portal, so Radio-TV Republika Srpska broadcasts daily Doboj news, alarm, citizens upset, mayor like this or like that, and then when you take off the privacy mark, who owns the rotal – Siniša Mihailović. Well, please, is that professional, independent, impartial reporting and journalism? Is this the public service that's in the service of the citizens? Is the public service that is in the service of citizens – secret services prepare chaos in Banja Luka, so a set of 15,000 people is represented – 37 Justice for David, people who only asked for one thing – arrest murderers, solve the case. Or, imagine, please, Republika Srpska Radio Television, let's say that Minister Mektić was adopted, did not give birth to his mother, but the Hrvat, which is a public service, invented a statement by Ramuš Haradinaj, to praise Dragan Mektić I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25488	Thank you. Chairman of the dom, Mr. Bosić, is correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25489	So, the amendment to Parliament's discussion, Marković. Well, that's already known, you're trying to bring any criticism of Republika Srpska's editorial policy under attack on the Republika Srpska institution. It doesn't matter. So, well, Aleksandra just said, we are in favour of strengthening the institutions of Republika Srpska, we are in favour of strengthening the Radio-Television of Republika Srpska, but we are opposed to you as the ruling party taking and privatising the institution of Republika Srpska. It's not the only institution, maltenes almost everything that is privatized, that you use this institution as your private weapon in political propaganda against your political opponents. Now, yes, we are against it, but this has nothing to do with what we have proposed, this is in the interest of resolving public services issues, the Public Service of Republika Srpska and public services in the Federation and the joint public service. And if they were fair, if they didn't, if they didn't have to strictly follow your views, so I guess these directors and this board of directors of the Public Service of Republika Srpska said -- well, that's great, so we're going to have a stable funding, we're not going to depend on who we're going to raise money on, who we're going to charge for, so there are... pigs for some man, so it was on TV private. So, total replacement of thesis, we're for sabilising institutions, but we're against privatisation, but that's not a second story at all, it's not a story about this point of the agenda, it's just a story that's going to open up, it has to open up anyway, but it has nothing to do with what's proposed here. And you're going to see the reaction of both citizens and others to this proposal, you're going to have to explain to the citizens why you don't think you need those excises you've already taken from their pockets, money, why don't you at least solve some problem, well, here's the financing of public services, to make it easy for them at least those seven marks. You're not even ready to do that, and you wouldn't feel a thing. So I'm asking you to consider, this was a well-intentioned proposal that should go to all of us. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25490	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25491	Well, now that I haven't reported for correcting the wrong quote here, I have to admit, nothing should be added or taken away. What they said in the replicas, i.e. the false allegations by Mrs Pandurević and Mr Bosić, is a real explanation and fully explains the picture of what the aim of this law is to run, what is wanted. So they're absolutely here, what you said, here on the scene is the replacement of the thesis, so that's exactly what you're doing and in your running for these amendments to the law replacing the thesis. You do not want and your goal is not to free the citizens of Republika Srpska not from paying a 36-year-old TV fee, but rather from the employment policy of RTRS, you are troubled by what Siniša Mihailović is doing, you are troubled by the fact that RTRS is transferring as Aleksandra Pandurević destroys and talks against the institutions of Republika Srpska here in Sarajevo from the entity it comes from. So, it bothers you that RTRS has it all, and it has, and it needs to pass, that citizens should know, because it's a public service to everyone. So those who support you, who voted for you and sent you here, and those who vote against you, should all know it and hear it. So, it's completely pointless here to talk about emergency procedures. If the end of the term of office of the club that has run for office is not the end of the work of Parliament and the House of Representatives, then there will be some new assembly that can fully and efficiently analyse and prepare and prepare to prepare and on the grounds that it can run for the amendments of the law, and not like this over its knees, only because of editorial policy and so that you can somehow exercise control on RTRS which you cannot do at the moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25492	Thank you. Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25493	Thank you. I thought we explained ourselves enough when it came to certain attitudes and needs of some people, but, look, I'm going to say something completely open. I think it was you, Mr. Bosić, who used this place every time as a political place to deal with the institutions of Republika Srpska in different ways. I must remind you that you have lost all possible elections when you are b or president of the SDS, that a significant number of MPs have left the Parliament Club in the National Assembly, that a significant number of MPs here have left the Job Club of the Serbian Democratic Party for exactly the reasons, some of the mayors of the municipalities, precisely because you have repeatedly used this stage to attack institutions and to deal with the institutions of Republika Srpska to do damage, whether the word is political or financial to the Serbian. That's what you were doing. It is true that the Serbian Democratic Party, but not the one you chaired, led the policy of creating the institutions of Republika Srpska, exactly, with the people, right, and that is why I think this is the wrong place to talk about these things. The right place are the institutions of Republika Srpska and I think you still have the capacity in the National Assembly to open these issues there, in accordance with... regulations in Republika Srpska. There's a place, that's what we've been wanting to tell you for four years, not that there's anyone here... I don't want to talk about editorial politics, we're not competent, we don't have that mandate to talk about editorial politics. Maybe there's a gap, we can't mix everything here, and the financial context, and the editorial policy, saying that someone on RTRS won't talk about something happening in Banja Luka, that they're looking for competent institutions... There's always some of the same actors. Well, I'll say, your advisor carried Mr. Suvar 50,000 and asked him to return 1,000 marks, so you didn't react like this. Your advisor sitting in Parliament today carried 50,000 of that same. And this is what we told you for the first time. We don't have, come on, let the institutions do their part of the job. Do not continue to perform unargumentedly, you have, I suppose, that you still have a club of MPs in the National Assembly, I hope you haven't fallen apart there yet, so let them open the issue there, but don't do it in the BiH Parliament. Those who falsely support you also laugh at you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25494	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25495	Well, first of all, this is the jurisdiction of this House. Therefore, this law is the jurisdiction of this Parliament, and in this sense, funding can and should be discussed in this House. I killed myself trying to see how we would crash Republika Srpska's Radio Television by letting them finance themselves from a budget controlled by the ruling majority who now wants us to accuse that we want to bring down that institution. I don't know how to define it at all, I can't find an expression in our language that can, uh, just describe how, I don't know. We killed ourselves by explaining that this had nothing to do with editorial policy, but if we were against it, we were, so it's not the first time, but it doesn't matter, no people, no matter how you try to say it does, but it doesn't. It doesn't matter whether this Law passes or not, the fundamental policy of public service will not change this Law, none of which we have proposed here so far when it comes to funding. The editorial policy of public services will change the change of power, if it does, if it doesn't, we'll still have this kind of service, my Bog, we'll still take people's pigs, we'll steal their closets, we'll give them TVs, nothing is disputed. It won't be the first government to do it, and before that some authorities have swallowed grain out of cubes, this government hasn't invented it, although their ancestors have. So don't read what doesn't say, just read what it says and say – we're not for what it says, because we don't think that's how you're going to finance it. Or maybe you're afraid that we'll control the budget in 2019, and then we'll control the service and that's the option, of course, depends on the election. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25496	Thank you. Chairman of the dom, Mr. Mladen Bosić, is correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25497	At Mr. Košarac's discussion. So it's true, we, here I repeat, we want to solve together as Parliament one of the problems that has long been opened. This means the financing and stability of the institutions concerned by this Law. It doesn't matter who's in power, we're convinced that we'll be in power and then we'll have the issue of financing Republika Srpska's Radio-Television, but it's fair to the citizens, it's fair that those you're forcing to pay the tax, and before that, those same citizens see that the citizens of the second row are on that Public Service, that they are not, that their position is not the same as other people's position. Well, here it is, the Pandurević told you, a collection of, I don't know, 12,000 people in Banja Luka publishing a central diary in the 17th minute as short news. The main event in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the region in that field is being announced by Republika Srpska Radio Television in 17 minutes as news in one or d-species. And how do you think a team of 12,000 citizens, how do they view public service for which they pay taxes and who should represent their interests? I trust you can't even ask them. So is it okay to download from the cameras the radio-television of Republika Srpska journalists in Banja Luka because people on the street react to them as a public service? Is that where you brought the institution? And let me tell you, about winning and that I lost all the choices. First, let me tell you that I personally won all the elections, personally. That I am the MP who won in the history of parliamentaryism, after Dejton, the most votes for this House, and I am proud of that. And in every election that I participated in, I got from my voters in the area where I went to a lot of support, and thank those voters. 2012 The Serbian Democratic Party has received 3/4 heads in municipalities in Republika Srpska, and you and Milorad Dodik have received 1/3. 2016 The SNSD got 2/3 and 40 SDS 1/3 and you know what was then, I resigned as party president, Dodik never expected it. I'm a responsible man, I'm responsible for my results. I'm proud of what I did in politics and I have my dignity unlike many politicians. Here is the problem in this country that people, especially politicians, have lost face and lost dignity. And very often in discussions, so unfortunately in this House you can also apply that it is an epidemic that has affected everything. And that's why our society is in this situation as it is. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25498	Thank you very much. Mr. Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25499	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here are the promoters, referring to distinguished colleagues who discussed this, inconclusive in themselves, and inconsistencies in their proposal. You see, if it's only 10% of what you've now listed is independent, impartial, objective, timely reporting of public radio-television services in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thus also in Republika Srpska, so you're doing what you're doing to help us achieve everything in a much worse way, then you're working against yourself. So, right now we're the government and I'm convinced, no matter how negative you're talking about... Look, it's not a good way to talk about it. Always reporting public services can be better, but budget financing can be the most direct absolute impact of the majority on editorial policy. And if anyone adopted this in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would argue that the most dramatic report by the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress would be that. So, it's illogical that you do, so in that sense it would be an even more negative report about us, you're giving us, you're giving the parlamentary majority, or executive authority in Republika Srpska, if you're just talking about Republika Srpska, this, the possibility of significantly greater influence and that you're working against yourself. I mean, you work most directly against yourself. If you want to, in this way financially, finance Republika Srpska's Radio Television, don't do it, if you want to have influence, you'll only have three months left. Here, that's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25500	Thank you. Safer Demirović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25501	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I welcome you and everyone present. After such interesting discussions, let's get back to the subject, which is the very procedure of this law. As far as the law itself is concerned, I absolutely support this idea carried out by this Law and do not agree with colleagues who say that our citizens pay taxes and thus finance the work of public broadcasters. They pay some, some don't pay, and those who don't pay anyone anything, we even have some who publicly promote it not to pay. And I think this is one of the solutions where we should go and nobody pays for it, and then we finance it from the budget, or we all pay through some other way. So, I like the idea, I'll support it in some short or regular procedure. 41 What is lacking in this Law is the way of funding definitely, from where the means to take over and therefore I will not support the emergency procedure, but the idea of this Law is definitely supported and I will support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25502	Thank you. Nikola Špirić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25503	Well, I think there's been a long discussion about the adjustments and amendments to this law, and unfortunately, in earlier times, there's been no solution. It's especially impossible to find a solution to emergency procedures. What are my grudges? So there is no independence that is covered by budgets, there is no such kind of independence, but let's see what this proposal solves. Since the change, the way, the collection and distribution of indirect taxes, the system in Bosnia and Herzegovina has changed. When she late paid any government budget institutions, does anyone remember that change? Never. When did the state, or Bosnia and Herzegovina, end up in a deficit? Never. So this is where only BHRT's security is created. So this is the goal, if the goal of this idea is to solve it, and what about entities? So, if we don't go in, they're part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, into editorial policies, someone's mad at this, someone at what, I think we're taking our anger out now, they're not going to solve this. If the goal was to get rid of BHRT and have a stable funding this is... but what's next, isn't it a system? So we haven't solved the problem. So, that moment, and then the proposings by individual names, and that was the key reform of funding the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you know first that it was the power of the entities, so what remains of the state. Now the state is charged and what remains of the entities. Well, you who come from the entity should actually know how it's financed. And that's why we can't deal with this complex problem with an emergency procedure. If we want to stabilize just BHRT this proposal solves it, they won't be late for salaries, they'll have everything, they won't cover the backlogs, but entities will be in trouble. Where do the funds go from budget to Republika Srpska and here? From citizens and Republika Srpska, and the Federation. Not much, while there's a lot of concern for the citizens, a hand in the pocket, so, if it's a clean budget system. So I'm against an emergency procedure, and this is going to be discussed for a long time, and this isn't going to be, believe me, a solution. But if the SDS wanted to stabilize BHRT this is their good proposal, the rest will pay the price and, please, nicely, but it's the Union's policy for change since the start of the constitution, don't hide it, why, it's legitimate. And if that's why you're gonna get the reward, we'll see. So I don't mind you suggesting solutions like this, just don't hide behind editorial policies, so something's changed in you, we'll see if it's better or worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25504	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25505	I think we have high-level creativity today, and that's what a lot of people should envy us for. If nothing, counterpart Špirić knows that budgets are adopted as consolidated budgets and that Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget can't be taken as much as it wants, but to agree with entities. kolega Špirić also knows that the funds collected from indirect taxes 42 are being allocated by a decision of the Management Board of the Indirect Taxation Authority, and in the decision and participation and made by the ministers from the entity and without them, it is not possible to implement the division of these funds. If he wanted to think this way, and he knows it better than I do, and better than all of us here, then probably this structure and imagination wouldn't have come to terms. However, this, today, and not just today, but all these years everyone discusses as he likes to hear or how he likes to hear those to whom he sends his message. That's how I discuss it, and so does my colleague Špirić, it's all legitimate. Like he, and they, are trying to challenge what we're proposing, so we're trying to challenge their proposals. And that's how we've been spinning, here, for the fourth year, and they've not gotten what we got, nor have they lost anything, nor have we lost what we lost, with us getting an alibi that when we take over power, we act the same way, and that's how it's going to be. They'll daći Bog we'll control this RTRS budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25506	Thank you, Dušanka Majkić, for the discussion. Here's Nikola.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25507	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25508	I apologize, Nikola Špirić, before that, for correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25509	I just want to explain it to my friend Momi Novaković. So today there are more of these who have proposed this model, more of them have talked about editorial policy than the way it is financed. Actually, the subject is a way of funding. I can understand that there are people who are satisfied, who aren't, I'm not going in there. To discuss the budget with me is ridiculous, for 40 years I've been professionally involved in the team and I'm doing everything I can to not make a mistake when it comes to it. But what's the point of this, and you don't have to run away from it, you get rid of one, it's all... but one is solved, it's BHRT, because everything that goes out of the state budget, no matter what the deal is, won't be late because it's the only budget that's constantly in the surplus. From the moment of the change in decisions on how to finance Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions. You haven't solved the financing of entity broadcasters, and that's the goal, so, this proposal and okay, but at least solve one if you have most. It's a system of people. Well, if there was such a smartness that, by emergency procedure, solved something that's insecure for 25 years, this would have been a successful European country a long time ago. But you're masters to replace the thesis, say, we will, we've given ourselves up, we want to stabilize a state... at the expense of the enitetic emitters. But it won't be the other one. _________(?) You're good. Well, of course I'm good, but talking about the independence that's being covered by budgets or entity or state-level budgets is for me... Who sits, who represents, who spends, who distributes funds from the budget? Representatives of political parties chosen by the people. So, according to this model, the citizens of Republika Srpska should pay, as well as the Federation, to pay for the part relating to entity broadcasters and the part for the state through taxes and everything else they pay, and here you say -- you drag your hands into citizens' pockets. So what's this? You're not paying them back now, are you? 43 giving them a reward? Well... you just have to be clear and someone will applaud you for it. So, will that be enough for you to politically point that I don't know, probably not, but you're not a leading group, you're a leading group. So the problem is with that hint that you... So, a cited political group The Alliance for Change. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Where it's going to come out you'll see it from the Federation. Who believes you, in what are you faithful, what have you done these four years? Four years of chasing... out of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25511	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25512	Here, thank you very much. Don't chase any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25513	Thank you. Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25514	Well, for a while, my fellow Špirić. Well, he said Bosić, and I mentioned he had money. There, 100, you've voted excises, you've broken all the rules, everything that exists in this country from procedures, laws, regulations, to put extra hands in people's pockets, take money, you can't spend money now. 100 million marks standing, no roads, no new jobs, no new kilometers, no nothing. Well, there, take it from there, it certainly stands, you can't... you can't agree on anything, you show it. So, from there, you take one piece to pay for the public service service. So when you agree on something else, then we'll find some other ways again, but to argue that someone has an initiative and that someone has some kind of proactive relationship, it doesn't make sense. So it's actually that policy without... it's mantra politics. I know that, I won't, I don't know anything else, but I'm going to challenge someone who's trying to do something else. So, I really think we should show it here once, I think we ourselves need to look in the mirror and see where that policy leads us. I mean, it got us into what we're in today. And I support people who have the courage to make other steps. So, you have here those who have kidnapped institutions, captured themselves, held on to it, privately used for themselves, nothing they can offer, but are truly concerned about those who, whoever offers a solution, are one step ahead they are truly concerned that something state, as they imagine, will come into question. And just because they and their families, relatives, friends, committees, they and their close relatives are going through whatever it is they can do, nobody asks, so leave it, don't talk about it, and when someone offers one, one, some solution and some step that can get us somewhere forward, they're worried right away. Those for Republika Srpska, these here for the position of the Bosniak people, as the ones who brought him into this position where he is presently. So please, then, from the excise you took money, you don't know how to spend it, so that's where we'll find a way and we'll find a part of the means to pay people to function in public service.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25515	Thank you. Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25516	... With a paw, you know while someone's politically discussing and saying take it from here, put it here, it's not chicken and eggs, there are some procedures. It can't be when you're part of the yelling you get here you put it there, and when you're from the opposition to say it, you know, late coming to your senses comes back again. aali here I'm saying there have to be rules and procedures in everything, even in money. So, you can't – take from the excise. akciza, most of them, can't agree to make a distribution, and when the law was passed, I was saying there would be problems, but it was said to be distributed under the agreement of the Management Board. Can you imagine what kind of laws we're adopting? So, as agreed. Where else did the money go as agreed? I guess there's a principle when it comes to money. That's Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're part of it. And I'm sorry I have to replicate, I'm saying again, this doesn't solve the system's problem. To solve this, I'd be the first to say it, but if there's a commitment here to stabilise BHRT through the state budget, this is the proposal, then we have to say whether entity emitters are part of the system. If we make a decision today that they're not, okay, here, I'll back it up, and if you, are part of the system or not part of the system, but this doesn't solve it, my view doesn't solve it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25517	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25518	Well, first of all, I'd like to say that the question that we could ask ourselves is, would there be any kind of bill like this at all if it wasn't pre-election time? We probably wouldn't, we know how much we've been dealing with BHRT and how much we've dealt with these issues and how we've been after that. So it's not. Secondly, apparently the SDS woke up, he should now tell the citizens that, behold, they are the party that has been attacking the institutions for three and a half years and all that is related to the Republika Srpska, and, behold, at the last minute, has woken up and thinks that the citizens should be returned seven and a half marks as much as they pay. There will be no compensation for all that you have done so far, it is weak to you for seven and a half marks that you think you will forget what you have done so far. It's a terrible feeling that your advance is based on the incredible hatred you feel for Republika Srpska's Radio-Television. And all I can remind you is that there's not one show on RTRS that you're not invited to, and there's not one that you're responding to. Why don't you respond and don't say what you'd have to say here where it isn't? That hatred you feel can't justify anything. Or another way of observing, as you think, that from the budget, therefore, Republika Srpska is also providing funds for public services, and you haven't asked anyone about it, you haven't consulted anyone, you haven't talked to those who deal with the budget. We have the fiscal advice that we've formed and that discusses it, we have a document called the framework budget document that's adopted, there's nothing there. How did you think of minutes to 12 to protect the citizens? There's got to be something else. In the end, didn't it occur to you to talk to your colleagues sitting next to you, none of whom have an opinion like you? Aren't you pretty lonely, that there aren't any of these new parties, I don't know, we'll see when there's a vote that supports you, I don't see anyone else answering and applauding... There is one more thing I want to say, the SDS has created the institutions of Republika Srpska, but there are no such people in the party long ago who have participated in the construction and establishment of these institutions and that is the proposal you should consider.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25519	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25520	I thank the chairman. It is very interesting that distinguished colleague Majkić knows which shows he was invited to, in which he did not, the SDS, which tells me she is also one of the editors of Republika Srpska's Radio Television. I have to say, we've heard many times that we've been invited, and it wasn't true. On the contrary, we even got, imagine, that the leading opposition party gets the email of the main and responsible editor of the information program and says – don't send us any more of your statements. We posted that e-mail. But it's good, watch out, the viewing patterns show that the more RTRS does, the more it hosts, the lower their ratings, the higher our ratings, and the ratings of private television. So we are very grateful to RTRS for this kind of editorial policy and we ask RTRS to continue with this kind of, same intensity, and to continue with this editorial policy. As for Mr Špirić's claims that something we who want to stabilise BHRT here, so please, Mr Špirić, we want to stabilise Republika Srpska's Radio-Television, because our Republika Srpska Radio-Television is not Draško Milinović or his advisers. Here, our colleague's husband is an advisor to RTRS Director General, so I know how he knows everything about what's going on out there. RTRS debts are 33 million marks, all RTRS assets are mortgaged, contributions have not been paid for two years. So this contributes to the stabilisation of Republika Srpska's Radio Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25521	Thank you. Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25522	Thank you, Your Honor. To me, these are more political allegations by SNSD MPs when it comes to the story that this is a stabilising of state television and breaking up entity television. So just as the vault works in the state, it works on entities. In order for the Treasury to operate earlier, it must be planned to determine what will be financed, and, among other things, this legal solution will fund RTB systems on entities, and funds will be planned for such a type of cost. And there's no concern that what's planned to be financed with certain funds isn't in the course of the financial year and planned. I think that's what they basically postulate that we all kind of know or understand. I've always said that, from the beginning, and I've never been clear to the SNSD why she got away from these, and in '14. the year from that space to talk about forming power, because SNSD is part of the government, because as soon as it participates in the Fiscal Council, as soon as it participates in the distribution of funds, those who allocate money are the authorities. Thus, it may have to be set in a different way. For this reason, I am surprised that Mr Špirić, whom I greatly respect when it comes to financial expertise, expressed this suspicion that such a legal solution would endanger the business of entity broadcasters. I'm sure they won't if the laws and rules in this country are respected. Thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25523	Thank you. No more reports, Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25524	I'm just saying, it's actually the wrong quote of what Aleksandra Pandurević said that the more RTRS does to you in the SDS, the better your ratings are growing. Well, what rating do you have today when seven MPs left you in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska from 2014 to today, three or four of which were the bearers of the list? You've been abandoned by two MPs in this House. One of them said he took out the concrete shoes when he left the SDS, so imagine what a nightmare you are and what a burden you are to those people. One delegate in the House of Nations left you, the head of Bratunac Municipality recently left you, the next story is Bijeljina, about which you will soon hear what is going on. So what kind of ratings you're talking about and what you're talking about here, you're distracting both your colleagues and the public about it. I think now, it was a replica, so it's obvious... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I kept quiet while you were talking. So it is evident that this, by running this law, is the first reason, and the goal of stabilising BHTV, which we do not dispute is that it is your ambition and goal, but you must see who you will do it with here in this House. And the other thing that is evident in yours, as your idea, is an initiative in this Act is a vengeful attitude towards RTRS which does not praise your policy which is traitorous and destructive to the Republika Srpska and its institutions, I mean you from the SDS.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25526	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25527	Non-compliance with the agenda, that's what I pressed.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25528	I'm sorry, non-compliance with the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25529	As far as I know, I'm not correcting the wrong assumption. Dear Chairman, we don't talk about who is who, when, how, how, how he left, nor is that the agenda point, because, now, we're going to start going back to the hoofs, and I don't know who, and so we're going around today all day in circles. That's not the agenda point, the agenda point is precisely defined and we're talking about the procedure on the agenda point, why we're for or why we're against the procedure, and nothing else. And please cut off this kind of discussion a little bit. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25530	You're right. Thank you. Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25531	Thank you, Chairman. I think you still have a chance to correct your cardinal political mistakes that you had in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You see, everyone's leaving you, you're still gonna have it, I just don't know if you've been informed or if you have that information. You left the main idea of the Serbian Democratic Party, it's a strong Republika Srpska, you're dealing with strong Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that's quite clear. This confirms this proposal of yours to amend and supplement the law that is totally unacceptable to us, because it is quite clear that BHRT sees as a system that needs to be permanently made possible by all financial means, and with the other two services, which are part of that system, too, I have not seen that you are... some appropriate solutions. And that says exactly how you look at the essence of the problem of functioning. I can talk about the roles of family members in public, no problem at all, I can analyze family trees, relationships, but it's not my mandate, and I don't want to do it here, there are competent authorities for that, there are competent institutions, but I think you still have a chance of getting back to the basic, important issues in the interest of Republika Srpska. You still have a chance to withdraw this proposal, you're becoming politically ridiculous and irrelevant. After all, you have the position of the competent ministry where you are suggested to withdraw this proposal. I think you could show that at least once you have the strength to respect the institutions of Republika Srpska and today, Mr. Bosić, to withdraw this ridiculous proposal that you have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25532	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25533	Chairman, please make sure that your colleagues do not adhere to the agenda. Who's gonna give a voter grade in the election and don't worry. The fact that someone's going, there's a lot more to go on and you'd better get rid of some of them, and then the police wouldn't have to watch over each other's officials from the same party's other officials. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25534	Thank you. House Chairman Mr. Mladen Bosić, discussion. Here you go. SECHIFIC [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25535	Yeah, well, this went really into pre-election propaganda, and the proposal is very simple, very simple. But now that it's gone this way, I see these really hard words, but I see the difference, you know. The difference in policy approach, you know, when Mr., let's say, I was surprised that Mr. Prodavanović represented the the thesis that we are working against ourselves by proposing this law. We are not just looking at what is the current interest in these four months until the elections for Republika Srpska, for the Public Service of Republika Srpska. So it's not a whole policy of how to make your personal interest happen through institutions because you're in power right now. I didn't quite understand, Mr. Špirić yours, I don't know what to call that sentence, that when it comes to the interest of the people, then stick your hand in your pocket, I don't know what it means to you, and I can think of anything that might come to mind, but it looks like your philosophy of politics. You were the ones who in time supported all these laws, you made this system, not me. You're here to ask Bog how many years, you've raised your hand to all the reform laws of Pedi Ešdaun imposed, I don't know what it's all about, there's a whole list. I didn't raise, didn't even raise an SDS hand, you created this system as it is. They called you a reformer, didn't call me a reformer. You've changed your policy, you've gone to a populist extreme following Milorad Dodik, no matter what it means for the interests of Republika Srpska, and I'm saying that populistism will not bring good to the people, it won't bring anyone here, and you're showing it right here for this speaker. You have to agree, or is this goal to help public service state or is hate against... both? Well, then it's really skillfully done, that with one move both flies. It has nothing to do with reality. Well, you've accepted that he's paying the state's income service collected in entities. How is the state service financed now? Under the law, funds collected in entities are financed and entity broadcasters are collected. And now you're fighting against, like you're fighting Bosnia and Herzegovina by fighting the state public service. It all doesn't make any sense. I'm asking you to overcome this level of acuity and that when there's a debate about this, obviously it won't get support for emergency procedure, all of you together think about what these people are interested in here. I think you'll hear what these people are interested in, what they think about what someone's holding their hand in their pocket and through excises, and through public, public service financing, and over many, many other things. So, I hope this debate will be more serious when it really comes to the agenda, and here we should only have discussed whether the emergency procedure is acceptable or not. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25536	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Špirić, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25537	I'll be very brief. It is true that I have been here for a long time, perhaps the longest, and the creator of many reforms, and participated in many laws that have been passed within Bosnia and Herzegovina. What you don't understand, I can't help it. I'd like you to make a mistake out of a misunderstanding, I could justify it, but when you make a sense of error, so you're trying to cover it with a folk story, then unfortunately it turns out to be political nonsense. So when you have a principle, you stick to the principle. I'm not a man who runs away from anything I've done in these institutions, no, never, but what's systemically not solved by emergency procedures, that's what Pedi Ešdaun was doing. So this is where people need to talk and don't get 49 angry if people have the opposite attitude. So, you... you propose, we ask, explain, so, since the plan to finance BHRT from the state budget that is constantly in the surplus...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25538	Look, you've come under the influence of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Špirić. I let go, I tolerated, but there's some limit to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25539	I'm sorry. Loss of system when you add...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25540	Well, you don't have to apologize to me, I'm asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25541	Okay, here we go, that's it. So you're wrong because you don't know, but not just for evil purposes.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25542	Thank you. Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25543	So, once again, I repeat the budgetary financing of public radio-television services with fasting, therefore, post-conflict and transition countries do not exist anywhere and this would further create the absolute influence of politicians, therefore, in Bosnia and Herzegovina at any level on public radio-television services. In that sense, I believe that this proposal is absolutely against anyone's interest if we talk about, I said, objective, impartial, timely, uh, information through public radio-television services. The second question that was, this bill of yours, I'm talking about procedure, it's impossible to change in the way you suggested it, and it's, it's impossible to change it in any way. It would be logical that your ministers in the Council of Ministers have proposed a law that has been supported and by MPs here, from the Federation, I apologize, at the House of Representatives, that a greater balance of funds than the RTV tax and the absolute coverage of the RTV tax be on entity public broadcasters which are of particular interest to citizens in the environments where they live. Let's see how the neighbouring countries did it, how the Republic of Croatia did it, how Serbia, where the RTB charges are over 90%. So we would create both sustainable and objective, and impartial to a much greater extent public radio-television services than they would be in this way. So, I have a reserve here and I don't think it would be anyone... Why didn't you suggest this? You know why? No minister of yours in the Council of Ministers would ever refer this law to a procedure because he would know what kind of message they'd get, so check that, otherwise they have a chance to give it directions.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25544	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25545	... I'm looking for a half-hour break from the democratic front.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25546	Break till half past three. So this is lunch break. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats to continue the work of Parliament. We'll wait for Mr. Sokolović, he's up for discussion. SALKO
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25548	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25549	You're giving it up? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So I'm concluding this agenda point...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25552	Oh, yeah, we vote. Come on, please prepare to vote on the urgency of the procedure. So 3 for, 21 against, 9 abstentions. There's no general majority. Now we're voting on... SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25553	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25554	Now we're voting on a shortened procedure. For three against twenty-one, abstention eight. There's no general majority. So the law goes into regular procedure. Let's go to point four, Ad. 4. The request of MPs Mladen Bosić, Aleksandra Pandurević, Nenad Lalić and Momčilo Novaković to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Radio and Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-1292/18, of 28.05.2018 51 I'm opening the discussion at point 4. Here you go. It's about the same thing as point 3. I guess the discussion is exhausted. I'm closing the discussion at the end of the fourth. We're voting on a request for an emergency procedure. In 3, versus 22, abstentions seven. So there's no general majority. Now we're voting on a shortened procedure. For 2, versus 22, abstention 8. Most of them don't. This law goes into the basic legislative procedure. Let's go to point five, Ad. 5. Declaration of the House of Representatives to establish a new deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Exchange of Us and the Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of BiH – pre-leader: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-697/18, since 07.03.2018 (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25557	It's not here, we're voting, I guess. That's what we'll do at the end of the session. We'll vote on that later.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25558	There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to Reach Consent on Before the Law on the Completion of the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH – Proposer: MEP Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1-762/18, since 16/03/2018 (the law in first reading) At the 61st session of the House, held on 17.05.2018, the proposal for a law supplementing the Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina was addressed to the Council to vote on the doma's Kolegijum as a commission. The college didn't achieve consent. There's no discussion about this point. We'll come forward later in the second round of voting. Point seven, 52 Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MEP Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalalica, No: 01-02-1-1189/18, since 15.05.2018 (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25561	I thank the chairman. Article 74(3) – in the event of the absence of a proposal for an act, it shall not be discussed unless the House decides otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25562	I think it's acceptable this proposal that if no one is authorized or if the promoter is coming, here he comes. Come on, we'll wait, collegiately. So we're at point 7. And we're applying for a discussion of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, as a proposer.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25563	I thank the chairman. So, it's about the Law, or the theme that was discussed at one of the previous sessions when we supported through an initiative to ask the Council of Ministers to reconsider the decision on how to determine compensation for...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25564	Please, let's listen to the debater. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25565	benefits for transportation to and from work where the Ombudsman's institution is also a human rights institution following complaints lodged by employees of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions found that the model by which the fees for transportation from work and work are calculated creates discrimination among employees, and that it should be legally acted in the way I have suggested, i.e. to return to the law what was previously, which is to return the word public transport to the Law itself. After all these surveys, which are mentioned in this explanation, the Ministry of Finance held at yesterday's session of the Finance and Budget Commission, however, had its position, but these views were not supported by facts, i.e. they were not supported by arguments because the union of police agencies, police officers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, at the level of 53 representative union and civil servants' unions had not been consulted when this Council of Ministers' decision was taken, i.e. they were consulted only in such a way as to give their views, and even when they gave their views, their views were not included in the way of calculating this fee. I expect that colleagues and colleagues will support this prijedlo of the Law, and it is worth mentioning that many of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's officials and officials, some ministries, will also point to another imbalance, or discrimination, and another additional blow to the pocket of employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, which is that, in order to establish who lives and how a fee for transportation to work and from work will be calculated, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are asking all employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions to deliver the PB A4 form to which they should, whether, in addition, pay a 5 KM tax to determine where employees and officials live, or where their place of residence is. So the question is why Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions are still asking for additional, i.e. funds to fill their budget, and they're hitting on the pocket anyway of the disbursed workers in Bosnia and Herzegovina when the CIPS application itself is free of charge giving information where the person working in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is reported, and the question is also why the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or all the ministries in which our citizens and citizens work have no established communication with the IDDEEA, so they find out where their employees are working so as not to burden additionally their budget. So what was through that, that session when I proposed that the Council of Ministers review its Decision and remove this unfair and unfair way of calculating compensation, then this House supported this conclusion that went towards the Council of Ministers. However, this was in March, and from then on, we have not received any feedback from the Council of Ministers, so I think this is an ideal opportunity for us to be responsible, is the legislative body also acting towards our employees and employees to correct this discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25566	Thank you. Discussion, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25567	I thank the chairman. Here, then, just to be clear. A colleague has proposed a law out of bed to be put in place, the provisions adopted in this House at the 17th session of this House, 16.09.2015 by emergency procedure, are deleted. At that time, the Council of Ministers' proposal was deleted from the provision for the transport fee to be charged on the basis of public transport prices and age, or we are against what a colleague is now saying. At that time, 27 MPs voted for an emergency procedure almost three years ago, including a colleague of the Gasal-Vražalica-Devils, including her entire club, and a position and opposition, only five of us were against, all four of us from the SBB Club and, here, to be correct, colleague Rančić. For the Law itself, when an emergency procedure was adopted, 34 MPs voted, and then only the four of us from the SBB Club did not support this Law, 34 for, 4 absent and the four of us were the only ones who pointed out that this was reckless and bad. And we pointed to this because we thoroughly considered this issue in line with the SBB programme and our promises and the result of this programme and these promises were two laws, one on the abolition of white bread, and the other on the reduction and abolition of fees for commission work, and since we carefully examined this whole Act we knew that this proposal was a Council of Ministers, even then we knew that this Council of Ministers proposal was extremely poor and thoughtless. Today, this law will probably pass, which is proposed by a colleague of the Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, probably all will support it, probably these 34 will come to mind the four of us, to what we pointed out almost three years ago, and thus these Council of Ministers' mistakes will finally be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25568	Thank you for correcting the wrong quote, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25569	I thank my colleague Arnaut who and when it was at the session, he pointed to this, and then I referred to myself, and here I refer to myself now, because we're not all Nostradamus like colleague Damir Arnut. So, Damir Arnaut knows when someone suggests that these implications will have that one species, that one population that will be affected by this. Damir Arnaut has long been in political life, Damir Arnaut probably has connections to find out, add up, take away or from the SBB programme which, apart from Captain Gradašćević, have, is this, an inheritance to act and be recognizable. They know all this, but this is my first political experience, for the first time in a legislative body, and I have no connections, information, and no vision of how what will be implicated, how some law will reflect citizens and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And when it came to my attention that something was wrong, that I had raised my voice or supported some law that was not fair, that is, being discriminatory before our citizens and citizens, I made a commitment to correct what I voted for, and then I see no reason why my colleague Arnaut is using every opportunity to point out himself, his white bread that he suggested, and we all adopted, because that you fellow Arnaut suggested it yourself and pushed it through the legislative procedure yourself, you wouldn't do it without the support of colleagues and colleagues sitting here, or in the House of Peoples. So, you have the need to keep yourself up, to insult others. If you're saying that we, I don't know how many, 24 or 27 we need to think of the five of you who voted for it, then I don't see any reason why you're not supporting this again today, unless your complex is because you're not the promoter but someone else.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25570	Thank you. Damir Arnuat, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25571	Well, I said we'd back it up, so we'll vote the same way we voted three years ago, be consistent. When this observation about Nostradamus, you see, before the advances of science, people believed in various miracles and attributed rain and such, is it, in appearances, thunders, some supernatural phenomena. The advances of science are these things, that is, this kind of thinking has lost its legitimacy and people have started to use science and analysis. It seems everywhere except for you fellow Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, you still believe in Nostradamus. So, we're thinking about the Council of Ministers' bill then used analytical methods, and we certainly didn't have any crystal ball, I don't know if you have it in your club. But in any case, I mean, to refer to Nostradamus when there's science, legal science in this case, 55 analysts, etc., is not something we do, but we apply these modern methods and we make our own judgment and the conclusion of every given matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25572	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25573	A fellow Arnaut is then asking a key question, which you might be obliged to meet and the public, as then your crystal ball did not tell you in that marathon session when it was on the agenda set of excise laws, what will happen to these excises, how we will charge the budget to a unique account that will stand there because it will not be further deployed as you have not agreed in the grand coalition how it should be deployed, because your road manager is sitting and talking about some invisible kilometers, or I guess your crystal ball where you see it in the SBB, that you see some roads to build, however, we as citizens and, here, your colleagues and colleagues in the House of Representatives see nothing but that famous sidewalk in front of the Presidency. And then I ask you why you didn't know then when the set of laws and excises was on the agenda to introduce us here to the implications that this set of laws will have on citizens. And maybe you couldn't even see it because the European Commission's recipe, Mr. Wigemark, was so divided into your mind that you couldn't possibly get to know us, or see for yourself what the implications would be.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25574	Thank you. Non-compliance with the established agenda, Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25575	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to express my surprise, and I don't know why he's talking like this. Is the proposal for a legal text being adopted, considered and adopted, or is the goal quite different here? This takes a completely different dimension, and I ask you to intervene and to prevent these, I am simply running away from saying what I think about these discussions that I absolutely, and my colleague Maja don't understand, if her goal is to go through this proposal, so do we need to focus this intrinsic discussion in some other direction to cause a man's dissatisfaction and that regardless of all this what counterpart Arnaut said, which is absolutely right, because we voted so, and we're going to vote again this time, and, well, I guess that's the interest of that promoter, that this legislative proposal is supported and nothing else. What I don't understand right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25576	Thank you. We're out of press releases. I'm closing the argument on the seventh point. We're going to point eight, 56 Ad. 8. Report from the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, issue: 01,02-06-1004/18, of 18.04.2018 and number: 01-50-1-1021/18, of 24.04.2018 The House decided to put this point in today's session, regardless of the lack of the opinion of the Joint Commission for European Integration. I'm opening a debate. You want to go first? Go ahead. Chairman Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25578	Thank you very much. I welcome the respected leadership of the House, the distinguished representatives and MPs, the distinguished media. Here, unfortunately none of my colleagues from the Council of Ministers are present. I have, here, expressed my wish or intention to present in the shortest detail or quotes, or the findings of the report itself with a request to focus on what it says in the report, to have our discussion, questions and answers in the realm of reality, not pre-election rhetoric, and to certainly remove some incorrect allegations that I heard in the debate on the agenda itself and to put this point on the agenda, that is to show the reality when we talk about European integration, about what happened before 2015 and how it was after 2015. So this year, the European Commission published for Bosnia and Herzegovina an Interim Report because the Commission is currently in the process of drawing up an opinion on the request for membership of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the European Union and the priority areas covered by the enlargement policy in this report are the rule of law, public administration reform, human rights and fundamental freedoms, the fight against corruption, the fight against organised crime, terrorism, and economic governance and competitiveness. So, the report itself is temporary and it does not cover all those areas that... covered earlier reports in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What is important to say is that the European Commission's Interim Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as all previous ones, includes the executive, legislative and judicial authority, including, therefore, the BiH Presidency, and the BiH Parliament, then all levels of government and all other competent institutions, and it does not represent, as it is, of course, the whole time trying to present itself, is not only related to the work of the Council of Ministers, although it is extremely important for us in the Council of Ministers to stress that in this report, the Council of Ministers of BiH has been recognised as the leading institution of European intergratical and reform processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I would like to state only one sentence from the report itself, which the Council of Ministers remains committed to improving the integration programme of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the European Union. This, of course, is very important to us in the Council of Ministers and is an act of identifying our efforts and progress made in this mandate, given the inherited situation in the field of European integration. The key is that compared to the previous report in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it can be concluded that the evaluations and findings in the areas covered by this 2018 Report have been uniformly, i.e. the same, which can be clearly seen by the method of comparative analysis, and that there have been no scorebacks in this report, while the evaluations for all seven criteria from all Western Balkan countries are almost identical, almost identical, therefore identical, although all Western Balkan countries have received candidate status before 2014 and before this term or mandate of this Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 57 I would like to remind myself that, say, or to state as an example that within the political criteria, let's say, in the field of judicial functioning the same status, the same definition, the same assessment of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia; in the fight against corruption the same assessment has Montenegro, Serbia, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina; in the justice, freedom and security sector the same assessment has Montenegro, Serbia, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania; in the fight against organised crime, the same assessment is made by Montenegro, Serbia, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania; in the freedom to express the same assessment of Montenegro, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina; in the fight against organised crime, the same assessment of Montenegro, Macedonia, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania; in the freedom of expression of expression, there is also Montenegro, Serbia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as Montenegro's market forces. So there is no difference in grades although they were long before we got candidate status, so they all got it before 2014, Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately, failed, but thanks to the work of this mandate it was a step in fact, or in anticipation of candidate status. When we talk about the political criteria, the negative connotation that prevails in this chapter is related, above all, to the failure to adopt amendments to electoral legislation, and it is indeed precisely stated that all political leaders had to, that is, to show willingness to address the issue of the composition of the Federal House of Peoples, while Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci's ruling is being treated in part of the necessary constitutional changes, not in part of the electoral legislation itself. On the other hand, the positive part of the political criteria was applied as reported in the report, mainly to the part relating to the concrete work of the Council of Ministers, stating that the Council of Ministers remains committed to the European pathway, and that a number of strategies were adopted, including strategies, environmental action plans and rural development, as well as the fact that it is actually ready and expected to be adopted and energy strategy. At the same time, it is stressed that the coordination mechanism has been in operation since June 2017, that it has been used for the delivery of the response, and that the regular implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been established through the regular maintenance of joint bodies, subcommittees, which in earlier reports, in '13, '12, '14, etc., has not been the case, with the exception of the Parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee, which is said to have not yet adopted its Rules of Procedure. It is also pointed out that, for example, the adoption of banking legislation, i.e. legislation in the area of the Bank's sector, is a good example of a positive alignment of economic reforms between entities. Taking into account or expecting the adoption of the Deposit Insurance Act, which the Council of Ministers referred to or adopted in accordance with the Commission's opinion, and we re-send it to parliamentary procedure. Another part or a positive part of the political criteria is related to the Council of Ministers in part of civil society where it is stated that in November we signed an agreement with civil society. When we talk about the area of public administration, it has been stressed that progress has not been made, and recommendations from the previous report have not been implemented. This, of course, should be fully realistic and correct and say that this finding is quite accurate, but should also be said that the strategy has already been prepared and that it is nearly four months actually waiting for opinions from the entity level to finally be adopted at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. When we talk about the rule of law and fundamental rights, we find that some progress has been made in the judiciary, but that reforms should have a faster pace. There is a certain level of preparedness in the fight against corruption, which remains a major concern, and Bosnia and Herzegovina also has a high level of preparedness to fight organised crime, and progress has been made by adopting a new Strategy to fight organised crime and contain it, as well as by meeting the Action Plan to prevent money laundering and financing terrorism, resulting in Bosnia and Herzegovina being displaced from all gray lists, Manival, FAV and all other institutions and organisations. In part of the functioning of the judiciary, it is stated that some progress has been made, 58 primarily through the adoption of the Action Plan for the Justice Reform Strategy, with the implementation of the monitoring and reporting mechanism, and the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council adopted a detailed plan to address the 2016 Report recommendations, including improving disciplinary procedures. There has been some progress in the fight against corruption compared to the previous year. With regard to the adoption of action plans at different levels, it continues to cause dissatisfaction, i.e. the gap between declared political commitment and concrete results themselves is noticeable. On the basis of human rights and minorities, progress has been made especially in the adoption of the Action Plan for Roma and the area of human rights, which has a much better score than in the previous report. As far as freedom, justice and security are concerned, progress has been made with the adoption of a strategy to combat organised crime. With the implementation of the Action Plan to fight money laundering and terrorist financing Bosnia and Herzegovina in an increasing degree, it agrees with its policy with the European Union's common foreign policy, and the negative assessment is related to political pressure, it remains a consistent intimidation of journalists, as well as the fact that a sustainable and sustainable solution for funding public broadcasters has not been reached at the same time. Finally, as for economic criteria, therefore, and the competitiveness of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it has been found that some progress has been made, that Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as other Western Balkan countries are still at the stage of establishing a functioning market economy. There are certain improvements in the business environment, while the financial sector is strengthened, but still as key weaknesses are noted: labour market imbalance associated with a weak education system that is not linked to the needs of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy, the grey economy remains a significant and overall level of education, i.e.... for the market and development are still low, and transport and energy infrastructure is not developed at the level required by the European Union. Finally, bilateral co-operation with neighbouring countries has been seen as satisfactory and as a co-operation that goes towards further development of political, social and economic relations with the fact, of course, that there are problems with the visa regime with Kosovo, but generally in co-operation with the Western Balkan countries, co-operation goes in a positive direction. So, regardless of all these positive things, but regardless of the numerous findings and shortcomings, this report is certainly much more positive than any previous reports that Bosnia and Herzegovina received before this report, which have previously identified very clear negativeities and delays on the way to the European integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why I propose that we focus on what it says exactly in this report because, of course, earlier reports have identified the reasons why, let's say, we were the only one who ended in 2014 without getting candidate status, that only Bosnia and Herzegovina until this Council of Ministers' term had adopted none of the four required strategies, transport, the environment, rural development, or energy, which is why we lost more than 500m euros. No subcommittee meetings on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement have previously been held, no mechanisms have been adopted that have allowed us to respond to the questionnaire and other European integration processes, no reform agenda has been adopted that has allowed the position of economic potentials in its development, nor has anything been done to remove ourselves from all gray money laundering lists and grey lists of other institutions. All this has been done in the term of office of this Council of Ministers and in the term of office of this Parliament. I thank you for everything where you are, and in all stages, processes and laws in which you supported the Council of Ministers, but indeed all the shortcomings identified by this Report, it is still, the 2015 report still remains the best report, which is still the greatest progress on the path of Bosnia and Herzegovina's European integration from 2018 to 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25579	Thank you. Semad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25580	Well, I was going to discuss the wider after, but I think it makes sense at the start maybe just to open up a little bit. So, Mr. Chairman, no one argues to have certain jobs, to have certain results, to have some visible work, but what is the problem with you, your Council of Ministers, your otherwise relations, so you're making a lot more of it than it is. So now you're saying here that we have the same grade as Serbia, in the field of justice, fighting corruption, some other areas. It’s just like when a first - grade student boasts with a first - grade student with a first - grade student in high school and says, “I also got a threesome at school.” Well, you did, but in first grade three. So what we're showing progress is the league first, or first class, and Serbia in fifth grade has the same progress, but in fifth, fifth level. So that's the key problem, don't fool yourself with this, that we're lying to ourselves that everything is great, that everything is going well. Because if that were what you're talking about, Mr. Chairman, right then we'd be mentioned somewhere in that European Commission report, and it would be said that at least we're on a list in 2030. We have no dates, no years are mentioned in our minds, and for Serbia they say, in 2025, both Serbia-Montenegro will be members of the European Union. So I ask you, therefore, the key problem of this Council of Ministers, especially you, that you've made a completely... thing out of a big pink picture, so you've also made us sitting here, in Parliament and in some other institutions, deluding, lulling, tucking in the story that you're taking all this seriously, that we, tomorrow we're just going to have to be a member of the European Union, and when we get a response from Europe, then people don't actually mention us in any serious, as it is called, calendar terms. That is why it is important to conduct honest, credible discussions. I'm one of the people who's gonna stand by you to help you take what you took on, to do it. But if you say yourself that you don't need help, that you're doing it ideally, that we're great, that even in some things we're in front of, I don't know, the countries in the neighborhood, so the question is, do we have room to help you? And then I might be discussing a little bit more of this stuff later, but this is an important thing that at first, for some discussion, just to put it on a plane where it essentially is. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Mladen
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25581	Thank you. Debate, jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25582	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I'm going to go through this report in a similar way as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the only thing that we have experienced in this report and the conclusions on this report differ significantly. After reading and analysing this European Commission Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from October 2016 to February 2018, I concluded that Bosnia and Herzegovina is moving at the speed of snails on the European road. So, the European path has slowed down in the essential sense of implementing reforms that are a condition of accession to the European Union, which we have also taken over by accepting the Reform Agenda. That this is thus confirming the comparison of this Report for 2018. 60 years with previous 2016 Report, where progress on the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina is evident, as qualifications for most criteria are identical. In the 2016 Report on page 8. The public administration reform found that Bosnia and Herzegovina was at an early stage in public administration reform, no progress has been made over the past year and a setback has been observed when changes and additions to the legal framework for the state service in the Federation of BiH, which have increased the risk of politicisation, and that a new strategic framework for public administration should be adopted, as well as a public finances management strategy. The report in question for 2018 under point 2.1.2. The public administration reform found that Bosnia and Herzegovina was in the early phase of public administration reform and that there was no progress during last year and the Commission's 2016 recommendations were not implemented. It also noted that the whole state strategy for reforming public inflammation is in the construction phase and still needs to be adopted. The further fragmentation of the Federation's state service and on the cantonal level increases the risk of politicisation. Therefore, a setback has been highlighted, which is identical to the previous 2016 Report. On page 12, the 2016 Report, paragraph 2.3, states that Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial system has reached a certain level of preparedness and that some progress has been made in meeting certain recommendations last year in relation to the level of justice and integrity, and that it is an identical finding in the 2018 Report in question, where it is under point 2.2.1. The judiciary and fundamental rights stated that Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial system has reached a certain level of preparedness and that some progress has been made with regard to some of the recommendations set out in the 2016 Report. So, identical findings without progress and in this chapter. There are interesting parts which are identical in both reports, both in the 2016 report and in the 2018 Report, which relate to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, where it is said that the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council still has shortcomings, particularly with regard to the appointment, evaluation of labour and disciplinary proceedings, conflicts of interest, registration of property, as well as the right to appeal to the final decisions of the VSTV. In the part of the report in question for 2018 – The responsibility of the judiciary, it is stated that the VSTV has begun to address the issue of very undefined rules on the application of the property which requires some kind of financial report to be delivered by judges and prosecutors but is not prescribed any mechanism for its publication or verification. The almost identical finding was also in the 2016 Report, where it was stated that this issue should be adequately addressed through the improvement of the legal framework. In part of the report – The financial efficiency of the judiciary, it was noted that the duration of the court proceedings in 2017 was slightly reduced, from 476 days in 2016 to 474 days, therefore, a two-day reduction, and that the rate of settlement of the case was slightly lower and was 105%, while in 2016 it was 109%. It was also pointed out that the total number of remaining, unsolved cases at the end of 2017 amounted to 2.1 million, the largest backlog of which is 1.7 million cases of unpaid bills for municipal services where there was no significant reduction compared to the previous reporting period. In part – The legislative framework of the judicial system under consideration for 2018, it is stressed that GRECO recommendations, i.e. The recommendations of the Council of Europe Group against corruption in the field of financing political parties and conflicts of interest have not yet been met. It noted that a new Law on the conflict of interest of BiH has not yet been adopted which is in line with international standards, and that the Federation of BiH and Brcko District should adopt regulations on conflict of interest and more effective protection of alarmers. In the 2018 Report in question Under the heading – The fight against corruption has been established that Bosnia and Herzegovina has reached a certain level of preparedness, that some progress has been made in the implementation of last year's recommendations through the adoption of the strategy; and [[the speaker is warned on time]] Action plans at different levels of government, but that the legal and institutional framework remains inadequate, and 61 fragmentation of action plans makes their implementation less effective [[the speaker is warned on time]] Here, so almost identical findings are in the 2016 Report and the 2018 Report. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The findings and qualifications were mostly set in the way of early-stage reform, achieved a certain level of preparation and some progress has been made. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25583	Mr. Emrić, please finish. It's been a minute. jasmin
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25584	And this all shows that the European path has slowed down, that very little has been done and almost nothing because we do not have concrete results, and our colleagues from the European Commission were obviously cultural and they did not want to tell us, that we are doing anything or that we are doing too little in accordance with the commitments we have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25585	Thank you. Milica Marković, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25586	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'll try to make a few comments about the report in question in short lines. I think it certainly deserves to be discussed today, given that the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina's European integration is a topic of foreign policy issues and work on jobs that are important for this country from a simple fact that the largest number of citizens want and imitates the country's entry into the European Union. But, of course, it is not the job of citizens to work on it, it is the job of politicians, primarily those who exercise power today at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to reach that level of country's preparedness through certain activities in order to get the candidate status first and then become a member. I, at the beginning, have to make a connection, in a way to compare two things here, only the presentation of the Council of Ministers' Presidency acts as a certain beauty, the hairstyle of the overall situation in the country that it is based on, that the report is not so rigorously achieved or unachieved on this plan, which is precisely to a certain extent, therefore, the report is not so rigorous towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the fact that the European Commission is not so rigorous towards Bosnia and Herzegovina can be interpreted in a different way, which I do in some way and I want to think about, that it is simply and the European Commission has seen and realized that the overall apathy within Bosnia and Herzegovina is on the agenda, therefore, the preparation and activities related to European integration and that it is aware that things are going too slowly in this country so that, of course, the European Commission is becoming more interesting and the interest of the European Commission that Bosnia and Herzegovina can be prepared for it, which is not the European authorities can be concerned, which can be discussed. 62 I will not go from segment to segment now because the predecessors have already said something about it, I want to compare some other things here, from nasal to undertone some other things. It is certain that European integration is not only a job of public administration professionals, the judiciary, the economy, banking and other areas that need to be reformed, but certainly has a political context and should have a certain political basis for such a thing. The chairman of the Council of Ministers here compared Bosnia and Herzegovina with other countries, other republics ex Yugoslav and said that in some segments, as he said, I do not know, in the fight against corruption, organised, in the fight against organised crime, freedom of expression, etc., Bosnia, Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Albania have the same grades. Of course, the question arises whether it is appropriate in this way to appreciate that Bosnia and Herzegovina, for example, and Serbia at the moment have the same assessment on the plan, because Bosnia and Herzegovina is still, in my opinion, not even close to obtaining candidate status, and Serbia already has it and has opened negotiations with the European Commission. There are completely different positions of those countries that you're bringing into a relationship and you say they have the same grades. In this situation, we have the following fact that the European Commission has said that the answers to the questionnaires that Bosnia and Herzegovina has completed, these answers are insufficient, therefore, and what has been said has been said that we should expect an additional 500 to 700 questions that will be raised by Bosnia and Herzegovina because they are giving answers quite vaguely, inaccurately and not clearly enough, do not paint a clear enough situation in this country. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission did not provide any information concerning the information provided by the exporting producers in the Union during the investigation period during the review investigation period. Bosnia and Herzegovina, and if we are now halfway, that is, the questionnaire was delivered in early '16, and the answers were delivered in early '18. in February of this year, it will say that nearly two years, not almost, but two years have been working to answer these questions. If we take into account that we're going to need more time on those 500 to 700 issues that will be delivered, then I really don't understand how the chairman says that we are one step away from candidate status. We remember very well from the media that when the application was submitted that there were then words in the course of 2017 we will get candidate status until July, until the end of 2017, until the beginning. At the beginning of his term of office, the Council of Ministers Chairman himself said – Bosnia and Herzegovina will have candidate status by the end of 2018, and we see where we are now. We are not, at this point we are not definitely done with the questionnaire either, and let us talk after which, so, when taken, we are told that we are done with all the questions and that all the answers are adequate and acceptable, we still have certain phases in which we have to wait for the opinion, the report and the rest, the European Commission's view that there is even a situation for Bosnia and Herzegovina to get candidate status. Not to mention, here, just two more sentences, so in another context, that at the beginning of this year, I think in February there was one conference in Brussels when it was fixed in 2025 as a year when Serbia-Montenegro would enter the European Union, Bosnia and Herzegovina no one considered, nor mentioned on the sidelines of that statement. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Or, for example, at the last conference, I think she was in Sofia, Bulgaria, where Bosnia and Herzegovina was brought to a level with Kosovo. So Serbia-Montenegro is in charge of negotiations, Croatia and Slovenia are already members, and Bosnia and Herzegovina has been brought into line with Kosovo in terms of European integration. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I think the Council of Ministers and this current set of authorities should be a big picture of that fact.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25587	Thank you for the discussion, Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25588	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As regards those who say it has been answering questions for two years and that it is a snail walk, it should be recalled that in the first round of answers more than 2/3 of the time has been spent in establishing the bodies envisaged by the new coordination mechanism. Part of the time was spent waiting for the appointment of members, and part of the agreement of the Rules of Procedure on Labour, and that is something we cannot impute the chairman of the Council of Ministers because we know that the problem was, the problem existed at entity level. It is a good thing, a very good thing and positive, that the Action Plan for preventing money laundering and financing terrorism, which Bosnia and Herzegovina is no longer subject to the Financial Action Group in the fight against money laundering, and I think it is very affirmative and congratulating. In observing the political criteria, the chairman said the election law and the court's unimplemented verdict, the International Court of Strasbourg, in the case of Sejdić-Finci, which implies constitutional changes. We see at this point in Bosnia and Herzegovina there is no readiness nor about the electoral law to create consensus, let alone about amendments to the Constitution. So that's not very specific about the work of the Council of Ministers either, not directly. I will refer to what I most often refer to, to the functioning of the judiciary. This again does not apply to the Council of Ministers chairman, my discussion is the same as last year when it was the same Report, because the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council did not lift a finger from last year's report and it is not a single thing since the adoption of the IA Regulation, and this year it is being warned that they did not let it go into effect, did not implement the Action Plan for Justice Reform 2014-2018. They then did not provide a transparent demonstration of the property of the holder of functions in the judiciary. I don't know what those amnesty responsibilities would be to show their income when we do it, and it should show up, and I think it's absolutely incorrect. But what scares me the most is the constant warning of the international community, the European Commission, GRECO and the Venice Commission on the need for an urgent improvement of the criteria for the appointment and evaluation of judges and prosecutors and the revision of the VSTV Act in light of the recommendations of the Venice Commission and the European Commission. So VSTV acts as the absolute ruler of the judiciary, justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina and dares to deafen the opinion of the Venice Commission, GRECO and the European Commission. I think it's as extreme as arrogance, even insolence. I think that in the context of the public administration reform story, it is not good, therefore, repeated over and over again yearly, poor results in public administration implementation, improving public administration, and I think that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, together with the Council of Ministers, must focus on depoliting the public administration and putting focus on it. I am very sorry that the adoption of the employment strategy has failed because there has been a problem again in fear of the transfer of jurisdiction at the level of one of the entities. We lost 30m euros in this strategy, and here's another absurd, it's funny that Bosnia and Herzegovina is credited to the international community, and we're not able to bring in a strategy that would allow employment, so let's at least, not at least, but just, let's say, young people we'd keep in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is no excuse for not bringing this start-up and strategy of energy and renewables, which would allow us to come in free money from the European Union, not credit borrowings. So, I think it's inside, inside, I don't know what's funny...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25589	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25590	64 I don't know what's funny about the fact that we've lost a terrible amount of money from the European Commission, and that we're in credit with so many important strategies. Congratulations on the Rural Strategy, and I'm part of the story, as well as my colleagues, we've insisted on it for a very long time. What is not good is the fact that again, the European Commission warns us about amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure, that they must be in line with international standards and standards which, of course, in the text offered by the Ministry of Ancient History was not the case, so I didn't understand yesterday's comment by Minister Grubeša, or the interconnector on the media, at a media house, which gave a completely conflicting opinion on it. I agree that functional and marketable assets should be improved and the labour market should be imported with the education system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which in some way will, in turn, create an incentive climate to invest new investors who intend to come to Bosnia and Herzegovina. We all have to deal with the gray economy. I suggest that entity governments introduce dragon penalties for employers who employ black workers. Macedonia once did so with terribly high penalties and had excellent results. I just want to say one more thing, everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina should have an interest in the European Commission's opinion being announced as soon as possible after the elections are held in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that these answers from the European Commission They represent huge, here I am immediately finishing only sentences, that they represent huge potential in the content and recommendations of the European Commission, which will in fact represent concrete material, will benefit the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, their most important recommendation for me, and that is, as soon as necessary, to bring the national starting point of harmonisation of domestic legislation with the legislation of the European Union. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25591	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25592	I tried in the front this morning to mention something about the system of coordination, but here it is better, the chairman of the Council of Ministers is here and first I want to say that it is bad when in one country the issue of European integration Parliament barely knows anything, the Presidency almost nothing, and the Council of Ministers everything. When there is such a discrepancy on such an important subject as this, then we know where we are. In that context, I want to say a few things that have been followed by the adoption of the coordination mechanism itself. First, if we had been having a hard time agreeing it and we agreed on it at last on 17th August 2016, we started applying it in June 2017 when we decided to fill out the questionnaires. Then it was logical to ask the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers what is currently going on with the coordination mechanism, how it is being implemented and why we never discussed it at Parliament's meetings. Are we aware that because of the lack of respect for the coordination mechanism, we can question the entire path of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards European integration? I'll remind my colleagues of a few things we've never talked about. The first thing is that these are stages in the coordination mechanism. So the first stage of the working group, which has 36, therefore, working groups for European integration that are drawn up by chapters, plus working groups for political criteria, economic criteria and for public administration reform, is the first level of 65 decisions. The second level of decision is the Commission for European Integration. I just remind you that in these working groups, the highest level of government is from local, or cantonal, to state. The second level of government is the Commission for European Integration. It is made up of one representative of the Council of Ministers, entities, cantons and Brcko District, each representing much less than the first group. It is chaired by the Director for European Integration, here he is, not here. The third level is the College for European Integration. So, if the Commission for European Integration does not find an answer, it will be transferred to the next level, which is the Kolegijum for European Integration, which makes up the chairman and Council of Ministers, entity prime ministers and vice-presidential Council of Ministers. So now at this point we can say that it's a boycott of the system of coordination and that it's pouring the completion of the complete questionnaire no longer works. For example, I quote this in the following: working on the Rural Development Strategy. So, the Republic of Srspka has finished and adopted the Startegory of Rural Development, the Federation has not had, but, behold, the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations has promised to make a rural development strategy for the Federation. The Council of Ministers opposes that a working group that should coordinate, the first level, co-ordinate activities on the implementation of the Rural Development Strategy, to do so because the Council of Ministers wants to retain that right by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Republika Srpska informed Mr. Wigemark and said – if it is not respected, and with his written guarantee, it does not comply with the procedure defined by the mechanism of the co-ordination mechanism, meaning the 11th working group for agriculture and rural development, Republika Srpska will withdraw. Republika Srpska's government agrees that the Rural Rally Strategy is working on a mechanism that we adopted and urgently do something about it because the Ministry of Agriculture is no longer participating in the work, and the Council of Ministers does not think of anything being launched to make this trip faster. And just one more example, I said this morning, energy, public administration reform, employment and public finance management, the same thing, and this document doesn't work either. So we needed individual strategies to fit and miss through the coordination mechanism, but that the programming of IPA funds is done exclusively within working groups. We have such agreement with Mr. Wigemark and don't let You block the further coordination mechanism, I beg you. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The next report that comes will be the same if nothing is done on that plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25593	Thank you. Discussion, Mensura Beganović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25594	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. We, here, have this whole mandate very, very marked by the efforts to direct Bosnia and Herzegovina on our way to the European Union, and I am glad that today the chairman of the Council of Ministers is here and said one sentence that remains like this to me as a specifier – the Council of Ministers is the bearer of activities on the way to the European Union. So I ask the following, when we are entering some serious project, and I think this is a very serious project for Bosnia and Herzegovina, probably the most important since the war, so let's say, then something called a programme, it was called a national or state, a approach programme for the legislation of the European Union. It's not just a question of law and strategy, but it's a question and all the activities that should be carried out with the data that are normal to indicate, who is the bearer of that activity, what is the time limit to do so, what are the indicators that have been done or that it has not been done and what are the measures to ultimately overcome this problem. So, I really call on the Council of Ministers who put into the 2018 Work Programme to create a national programme in the 66th quarter of this year, not by any chance late with the adoption of this programme, because what is happening to us...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25595	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25596	I'd like to ask you a little...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25597	I'm asking for your attention. MANSURA
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25598	What happens to us is that we go one step forward and two steps back and we have a year-on-year report for a little bit better, or let's say we're more positive, so we're incomparably the worst in the region when it comes to meeting the candidate status requirements. It would certainly be less, less burdened with all these problems that are evident, if we had or had already had this national approach programme to EU legislation. I'm going to look back on one more thing when it comes to, I don't want all the problems and all the shortcomings that have been waiting for us, which, we've come across in this way so far, to shift to the back of the Council of Ministers, we've also had problems adopting these three, four strategies that we have. I have often had the opportunity to ask Minister Šarović, ask, remind, what about the strategy for environmental protection, what about the rural development strategy, i.e. whether the issues of agriculture, food production, etc., and there have been answers that are sometimes the right, to say, to say, that I am the minister says – yes, we will lose another tens of millions of euros before we adopt those strategies. We fortunately, here, it is my pleasure to say that this year, in the first quarter, we adopted another strategy, so we now have three, even four strategies adopted, and we need dozens more, whole state strategies. At this time of adoption, in this process of adopting whole state strategies, we very often have a brake from Republika Srpska entities or inactivity in the Federation of BiH entity. I don't know what's worse than these two, but neither of them is good, because we don't have, we don't have the final result that we want and we have to have, and above all there are those who are the holders of political functions, political decision-making, therefore, and the people sitting in this Parliament including, therefore, all of us as representatives and delegates in the House of Peoples. So, I don't want all the burden, all the problems, all the shortcomings we've discovered, defined through the mechanism, in adopting the coordination mechanism, in adopting the Reform Agenda, which was adopted the way it was adopted and, here, not to mention others like the Commission's regulation, the Commission's rules on the work of European integration that has not been adopted so far. Am I right, Mr. Lovrinović, is the rule taken?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25599	Ours? It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25600	It's not? Great. That they are not always the result of insufficient work, insufficient activities by the Council of Ministers, but also a lot of those who are participants in the whole process, and they are all full of the mouth of commitment on Bosnia and Herzegovina's path to the European Union. 67 I will not refer through this report any further than to the issue of fighting corruption. Today, we will have on the agenda one of the reports of the Anti-Corruption Agency in which one is indeed in one place, and we will have a special opportunity to discuss it, says in one place that the Council of Ministers has not given sufficient support to the work of this very important agency. So, despite the fact that the European Commission report, which states that corruption, which doesn't necessarily have to tell us by the European Commission, that corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina is at a very high level compared to all other countries, because we are much worse, we wouldn't even compare with them, we shouldn't compare ourselves with them but with those who are better than us, we have a situation where we have the Agency directly in charge of monitoring, implementing and intervening when it comes to corruption, that there is no support from the Council of Ministers. [[the speaker is warned on time]] That's my objection to the Council of Ministers, but I'll have a chance at another point to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25601	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25602	I would ask my colleagues in the future to say that Republika Srpska is guilty of something they should say exactly what she's guilty of. In all the boredom, all the problems I analyzed were not missing in any document that Republika Srpska should have done. I remind you that, so I just spoke about the Rural Development Strategy, so the Federation didn't have one, so I was talking about energy and public administration, employment, public finances, and the Federation didn't have one again. So I remind you that there are no key documents in the Federation, but imagine, let me ignore that there is no strategy, the Federation has not adopted an integration plan, harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union, and Republika Srpska adopted the ninth round a few days ago. So, I ask you to keep an eye on us, we have made a significant step in Republika Srpska. Through the coordination mechanism we need to achieve what we're missing, but what the Federation hasn't finished, it can't be done by anyone else, it has to end the Federation. And, please, whenever you say Republika Srpska guilty, I want you to say exactly what she's guilty of, so I can check what you say.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25603	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Mensura Beganović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25604	Thank you. I didn't really give you the details, but here, now that you're asking, I'm going to tell you what strategy this is, which is the strategic document in which the problem of Republika Srpska was developed. It's a quality system, so it's basic, it's age-tegy, it's a common document... when it comes to adopting quality strategy documents. So, the work of the Institute of Standardization, for quality, that's what, I don't know exactly what the name is now, I'll check it out, so I'll let you check it out, where we have a state-level problem because of the failure from Republika Srpska. I know about this, but I don't know if there's anything else or not, I've also referred to the Republic of Serbia and 68 of the Federation because I think there's a problem in both places when it comes to adopting whole state strategies.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25605	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25606	Mrs. Beganović, when you say, you said in general, therefore, that Republika Srpska is in some way obstructing European integration, and that the Federation's reluctantness is, on the other hand, guilty of this situation in which we are. So that's a very, as I would say, broad insight into where you covered the Republic of Serbia. But if you take it and read this report in detail on page 3, here's what I'm going to tell you, I mentioned it to... today when I was talking about the agenda, so the report was both explained and told exactly what who was doing it, and what was not done by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it's said for example. for the BiH presidency to be exhausting in bringing out the conflicting views of some, that certain members of the presidency were doing so, meaning that they were presenting conflicting views on the foreign policy plan, and then the Council of Ministers that it could not work, had delayed the implementation of a number of reforms following the lack of agreement within the ruling coalition, we know who the ruling coalition at least was up to a certain time in the Council of Ministers, and a sentence was mentioned for the Federation government, says the government of the Federation of BiH has prepared certain regulations that stem from the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Reform Agenda. Nothing concrete or anything more than that sentence, but for the government of Republika Srpska says – it continued to prepare the regulations of the Action Plan for the realisation of the Reform Agenda, a voluntary pension fund started working as the first such species in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republika Srpska government launched an ambitious reform programme to restructure its railways. The entity continued to work separately to bring its legislation into line with Aki's European Union and develop its own harmonisation methodology, which provides that the government adopts annual action plans without co-operation with other levels of government in the country. So the biggest passport is..., and after that is mentioned by the Brcko District government, the biggest explanation is what the government of Republika Srpska has done. And therefore you have no right to say that Republika Srpska is obstructing on the basis of one quality-setting strategy. It is one strategy, but it is not a comprehensive job of European integration, which is the subject of this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25607	Thank you. Correction of the false allegation, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25608	My kolegica Marković and my colleague Majkić, therefore, can truly understand that you are here too much to defend the views of Republika Srpska, i.e. whether, the government in which you are most of the other entity, and that in the BiH Parliament you defend everything we have the facts for, and you will not accept, and it is not only up to you, nor us, it is actually up to the Council of Ministers who avoids in their reports, and even in one such address by the Council of Ministers to say the name and last name who blocks and where it blocks. And we, Mrs. Marković and Mrs. Majkić, when we ask questions, if we follow the answers, and when we refer to what certain ministers tell us, is, from the Council of Ministers, giving answers where they say -- so it would be at 69 states level that the Republika Srpska entity sends its delegates to certain co-ordination committees, here, Minister Borovac sits here, so we don't have a jack action plan ever, we don't have a policy for the position of young people, nor for education that should be at the level of the state because it requires Europe. And why don't we have those strategies? Because Republika Srpska's unity will not send its representatives or representatives to those committees where they will develop a common strategy that will be state-owned, it does not have to be called national because it offends you. And we, when we refer to it, Mrs Marković, or Mrs Majkić, in her address very often says it's a transfer of jurisdiction and that we don't know what we're talking about here. The truth to be the one and the champion of the transfer of competence is a colleague Marković who succeeded in even transferring the health system to the state level, because when her back was at that time, the health system could be at the state level, and when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to do one strategy, a state strategy, then the SNSD and the ruling Republika Srpska entity will not send their representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25609	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Mensura Beganović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25610	Well, I'd rather not detail some of the things that aren't important for this report right now. In general, I have to say that we are waiting for a whole series of whole state strategies that we have to adopt whether we want it or not, but really very often we are facing a problem of transfer of jurisdiction regardless of who it is, here I am now going to take another example of at least two strategies that I personally know are a problem and that because of the transfer of competences that Republika Srpska does not want, or the representatives who are here to say, do not want to allow, in any way, that these strategies remain outside the possibility of being created, to complete themselves, that is, let's say, a strategy for energy, so we have a strategy for the development of an information society whose initiative I tried to give here two years ago. You rejected her without any other word or argument, it's a transfer of jurisdiction. For other strategies I really don't know, but this is one of the arguments that made me say that there's a blockade in the sense of making state documents and even the law. We have a problem and the adoption of laws at the state level that must be at the state level, but now they are in the question of the transfer of jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25611	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25612	Well, there's not much to say here at this performance of Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil and, uh, I'm not going to go down to this low level that she's communicating with and which she's talking to her colleagues, but I'm just amazed at the amount of malignancy that's shining out of her, and of course to the tone, and the arrogance that she's performing that's a little stronger than some male colleague when she's talking here, than some men who talk, who are far more calm and appropriate to say what they have. She is very aggressive and very arrogant in her performance, but her tone will not scare me at all to come forward and say again what I have when it comes to the position of the Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska Government. You have no right to object to neither the 70 governments of Republika Srpska nor the Republika Srpska. The government is doing what is asked of it, even moving forward with some in the Federation where you and your party should take care of more of what the Federation Government is doing than what the Government of Republika Srpska is doing, but, of course, you will not come into this situation to transfer and take what it has never been or will not be, or will be, the jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the sake of European integration. It would be better and more useful if you, as a Member and your party, were to see to it why the Federation government did not do what it was supposed to do and why there was so much backwardness when it came to the effects that the government needed to achieve, rather than constantly dealing with the Government of Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska as if Republika Srpska were, after all, the biggest cry for Republika Srpska in Sarajevo when it comes to European integration. And why is that? So when you attack the government and the Republic of Srspek, then, of course, you get lost in the story of the Federation government. Let's see what the Federation is doing and where its responsibility and its ineffectiveness is on everything for the position in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is today.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25613	Thank you. Zaim Backović, not respecting the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25614	The Honorable Chairman. The agenda item is excipli8e listed, Report, Ha would ask you to return this to the canal and start talking about what we have ahead of us. MPs have become entity lawyers here and have been members of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we instead of looking for a way to go further we're here fighting whether this is the one or that one, or the one that did that or this one did this. In the end, they don't look up at how that is, or how this is but what... the state has come. We need to talk about it, we need to find a way towards Europe. The young found him, left our country. When you ask them why, not because of what it is, not because of what this is, but because of the policy that is being conducted in this country. And there's no more name, no more last name, no more nation, no more religion. Soon there will be one study, and we will hold onto the head as much as there is in Republika Srpska and the Federation. And in the most favourable position are the Hrvat, but they are not there, because they have a passport from the European Union. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And personal, it doesn't matter. In the most favourable position, they should not suffer as they suffer to leave, but they also go away. I'd like to ask you if I can...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25616	I beg your order.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25617	And give me... _________(?) 71 [[no microphone turned on]] Bog forbid, I'm against it, and let's get this discussion back to the basic agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25619	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25620	Koleginica Beganović, I am a Republika Srpska MP who is sitting in Parlamnt, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, and I am obliged here to protect the interests and responsibilities of the constitutional Republika Srpska as well as the competencies of Bosnia and Herzegovina signed by Annex IV of the Dayton Peace Agreement. I remind you that nothing since then that the constitutional jurisdiction of Republika Srpska cannot and will not be transferred to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but thus we have not nailed the matter that we cannot work on European processes, but we have proposed a model of how to do it. So, if you in the Federation did a good thing for us in Republika Srpska, and the Brcko District ended up with yours, and where the cantons were involved your part, so there is no, there is no, nobody is, then no one is troublesome. We'll connect through the coordination mechanism what we've got in different places. We have the document, we have the strategy, we have all the decisions we need. So, don't, let's just insist that everyone in their house cleans up their garbage, there's no point in us attacking each other, but to be exact – well, it's your fault that it hasn't been adopted so far, and then we'll talk more specifically about you and me. That's why I found you examples of how... why things don't work. No, you wanted to take the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina to talk about information systems and to be at the level of information activity at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. No, it's entity. Let's do everything we've got, and we'll see what's in common. If we insist on kidnapping jurisdiction, there's no way this country can take a step further. You have to understand that. Well, that's, so you have no reason to be angry, that's the only way to come up with a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25621	Hvla.a Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25622	My Kolegica Marković. Says colleague Marković – he will not descend to my level, so later on, if he uses words, I did not refer to you for a moment or a single personal matter, nor did I characterise you as a male colleague. I don't know maybe you have a problem with someone in a woman's body having... like a man, but it's up to you. Then you say I'm arrogant, that you don't like my tone. So, all the arguments and minutes you spent during the replica to me, did you somehow qualify yourself as suitable to you. So I'm not going down to your level, and you can never be on my level because it's not going to come after you. And so I'm going to forgive you for talking to me because I know that pain in the back knows that oxygen, whether the oxygen flow to the brain can be difficult, so I'm going to forgive you for that... 72
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25623	Thank you. Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25624	I'm reluctant to report for a correction, or a replica relating to this. It is, therefore, that we are discussing the European Commission Staff Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, and I think that we are needlessly using some personal relations in this story. I also highly respect Maja's enthusiasm and her activity and everything, but it's not good to talk in any context about any medical condition, in the context of anything quite in the story of this. Finally, when we talk about Mrs Marković's position I must say immediately, therefore, she has done nothing that has not been done by acts and regulations employed by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the end, she withdrew any request in that sense, so she did not use any right. The Council, if anyone needs to be criticised, needs an institution that has brought such a..., it is the Council of Ministers, that is, if someone uses it, it is a competent committee that assesses the need for, in a certain sense, participation in this regard because of the difficult state of health. I have to honestly tell you, I have a lot of information about a series of cases that have been used here, and I'm sometimes extremely surprised that they are incomparable to their own benignness in relation to this story that is being used. But we shouldn't, even if it weren't so necessary for each other's relations, we are political representatives here, so, people or citizens elected to this legislative body. Look, we should be appropriate to each other, uh, behave, and discuss... And I look forward to it, regardless of all these...... we all want faster progress from Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must honestly say here that my colleagues and Dušanka and Milica were very constructive in replicas to say what we should do in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the interest of everyone in accordance with constitutional jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25625	Thank you. I just need to let you know that if you think we're going to finish today's session, we're going to have to be a little more efficient because we can work by half past seven at the latest. Discussion, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25626	Now, if I were to take this discussion a little bit off this agenda and go to another side, I asked you to return it to the rut. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25627	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25628	I can turn it on Džaferović, I've learned it in these years and years how to start with this and end up with a flying saucer, but I have no intention. Everything we say and try to speak, and about the material presented, obviously, we want to put it on someone else's back, among other things, and the Council of Ministers. We forget 73 that we are the legislative body of this state, we forget that we are the law-making body of this country, we forget that we are the ones who are supposed to direct through the laws of flows and events in this country, and by bringing me closer to what is called the European Union. We have thousands of delusions, obstructions, foot plantings, and now we can, right here, tell the entities. You know, we can be getting close, so I can go with the Federation because if I go to the Republic of Serbia right now, if I go to the Republic of Serbia, we can get closer to Turkey by day of judgment, but it won't help us get close to the European Union, we can say anything we want. We can also approach Russia from the other side to the day of judgment but we will not get close to the European Union. Historically, neither Turkey nor Russia have brought us much happiness in these areas. Whoever wants to read, who wants to look, will see that it's fate for us, that it's fate for us because we're in that damn space and the detour of Europeans, that we go a little faster and realize that these young people who leave have only one way to stop, that we as a country are headed towards the European Union, and not those as individuals. If we don't figure it out, we're talking about entities here, nations, religions, I don't know what anymore, we won't have anyone to talk about. It's undivided. And I think that if there's a responsibility, if there's anything else called a sense of belonging to a country, because as much as we love the left, right, upper, lower, there's no happiness for generations in this country by saying that we love more of one or this, more of those or these than our own country. The only real future, all of us sitting here, have achieved that happiness in their country. It's not left, it's not right next door, it's not the apartment, it's the salary we have here, it's the car, it's nothing, it's not the schooling of the kids, it's the country that brought them. And to give this country a little more, we need to give it a little bit more incentive. We can't keep talking, I apologize now on behalf, I hope he doesn't get it wrong, Denise on guillotine it's your fault because you're the chairman of the Council of Ministers. We can't, because there's someone in front of him on that guillotine, and there's a legislative body in front of him, and the legislative body is us. We've dropped out of our hands what we have, it's our own fault if we're not involved, because it's hostile in this country, so I'm going to use it to hope that you two won't get hurt, chairing and chairing, as we have a three-headed angel on the top of the country, so we've got an adjudication on the head of the parliament, so without consulting you three can't even fly through the session, you have to consult and you have to agree, and you have to imagine a family in which two children, women and husband They're four-headed, and they're supposed to get along, and there's no one to cut them off. [[the speaker is warned on time]] There's... there's no family like that. And so in this country. And I recommend for the future, not us anymore, our future has been run over, run over. What was and what was happening to us, because of the future of young people, to finally realize that our goal is to make everything that is here negative. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Let us quickly correct and quickly get on the train to the European Union. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25629	Mr. Backović...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25630	Just one sentence, please. Mladen
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25631	Here's the minute and 11...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25632	One sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25633	Let's do one sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25634	How small we are to actually be able to do all of this in a year, and we are so thoughtlessly divided that if we continue like this we will not do it until the day of judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25635	Thank you. Discussion, Fehim Škaljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25636	I thank the chairman. I'm sure there's no doubt in all of us that we need a modern state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It can be modern today, built only on European standards, and that is why this road is something that we must give priority to. The report in front of us is clear, we can read it and there is no need to interpret how others look at us, but to learn from it what we need to do. The important thing is that the door is still open, there's good news. It worked, but it wasn't enough, we're last. And it has to be a strong incentive that we have to do more and more differently than we've done so far, aware and that geopolitical circumstances have changed, that some other winds are blowing and that time as a factor is going on and on against us. So the question is, what do we have to do and how many of these reports j, as much as it records some positive elements, actually a choice for alarming and mobilizing us to do more and necessary to make it better. We are all aware, although we often push it under the carpet, that citizens are confused, that the less they have faith that something effective will soon be from this time on, and the better we place to the citizens. And it's not known as we don't know here that we're sitting at this point or most of the projects from the IPA funds that the citizens of Europe are funding, how they're going, where they're going, and... just one of the things. The question arises, and there have been numerous discussions, none of which, apart from some with exception, specifically spoke about our responsibility as a legislative authority. I would also say as a member of the Commission for European Integration in this Parliament, and as a member of that delegation in Brussels, that we were at the gallery of this process, not in essence of this process, and that Parliament was below the level of the need on the way to European integration. What we signed in the Interim Agreement is missing, our role in creation and our role in the control of the process. That is why I think it would be good if, in the context of the debate on this report, we opted to say that it is a good thing that we have a report that records some positives, it is very important that the door is still open, but we want to make additional efforts, so we are in charge of our European Integration Commission to draw up a plan for additional measures to engage Parliament on this path. Bosnia and Herzegovina, we all know that, one of their legal forms must be brought into line with Europe's acquis, and we as Parliament do not talk to entity parliaments, nor with other levels of legislative authority in the country, nor have we ever met. It might be good that additional measures should also be included in the plan for joint meetings of the entity and state of the central parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25637	Thank you. 75 Discussion, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25638	Thank you. So, I'm going to use one part of my commentary on this report and in a way to comment on what my former colleagues are, Šepić, Emrić, and so here's my colleague, Škaljić, said that I would not answer for the replica because there is nothing special to say about this report. In fact, my colleague Šepić must have expected when he spoke so interestingly that yesterday we were a member of the European Union and he forgot his role in all of this ever since this Parliament and when I was telling him about the agenda that they hadn't come forward, and they asked counterpart Ahmetović to be the point, and when the points were then they didn't come forward, so until now. Well, thank Bog we changed that, and this report has become very interesting, actually a special report as you said, as Mr. Zvizdić said this is not what the standard report is, we are waiting for an opinion on the answer to the questionnaire. When fellow Emrić spoke, therefore, very thoroughly, about everything that was written in the report, so he spoke about the judiciary, so he spoke, therefore, about what was mainly not done, means that we should have been in this process at all, therefore, to bring the Agenda, he had to submit the application, he had to get questions, he had to answer questions. So before 2015, none of it was, none of it was, and we could still be, uh, we could've been better or we couldn't have been any better than we were until 2015. So without those steps, it couldn't have gone any further. Now, could they have been better, faster, stronger, clearer, I'm leaving it to all of us to think. So when you're talking about justice, so let's say there's, say, an example for the judiciary, so what, in the assessment here, this report says that this is not what was expected of the judiciary. So we're told by those who created it, and remember our discussions on the prosecution's statement, the VSTV, and we're not satisfied, so who's satisfied, whose are they, so who regulates it at all. I find that very interesting, therefore, none of us are satisfied with it, none of us are doing anything to solve it. We have their special reports, we don't have to wait for the European Commission's report. So it's very interesting how we look at it and how we perceive it, but that's how it is. But in the end I'd just say something, Mr. Škaljić said that, some of his observations that I know from the work of the commission, I'll just remind you that the sector was formed here. We also agreed at the level of the College of Parliaments, the sector is still almost not living, and for example in Serbia. The commission, where Mr. Škaljić and I are, has the task that every act that is in the process must give its opinion, therefore, to open the process of harmonising acts with the European Union. We don't have it in the Rules of Procedure, gentlemen, this commission actually, here I told you, not only can we not put the quorum together, but we are not even, not necessarily our opinion is on this kind of act. So we have to change things, it's up to us, and here's a European Commission report warning us how we do and what we do and, of course, in order to speed us up and be credible. But let's just say something about how they saw it, for example. In the Commission report, I didn't want to say it before because I didn't want to, here's not to explain it anymore, but for example. The use of the word fragmented, which you and your colleague Emrić warned, using the word fragmented system when it comes to public administration or other stories, e.g. The possibility of getting another 500 or not knowing how many additional questions, you know, the European Commission can't tell whoever she's sending this to and who's going to read this report is going to bring opinions about us, say that there's a fragmented system here, they have to say it's a constitutional category. It means that someone took the right to break up the system and do whatever they want, whatever group takes for granted, the minister or whatever body he does, so I would draw that conclusion from this sign. So that's what someone up there reads and 76 brings us attitudes, says fragmented, so now that we're 50 here, 42, we're all pulling ourselves. We have constitutional jurisdiction, here's what we're arguing about in previous discussions when colleagues talked about. We have... and it has to be based on it, it can't be a different decision until it's different, until it changes. Therefore, they must be clearer to those to whom they send this report to negotiate us. So the new 500 additional questions, what they don't already know about us, what they don't know if they've created for example. The justice system, I won't tell the European Commission, you know who. Is now that they don't know what to do with us... they don't know how to do in statistics,... They know everything. So sometimes it seems to me now, I don't know if I should say those hard words, so I don't want something that they're holding us back in the process. So, give me these questions, you know when I can get rid of this, what we're talking about, and harmonising our regulations, when we get candidate status and when we open the chapter. They don't answer that questions, they don't solve it, we can discuss it as much as we want here, we're just opening the process, so we're getting candidate status, we're opening a chapter by chapter, and then we're harmonising our regulations, and then we're going to get where we really need to be. And I don't know what they're not giving us and I don't see you until 2025. I still hope that it was just a mistake, that we will get, that we will follow those who are listed there... So, I repeat again, I don't think we're... the diagnosis is good but that this is better or we could stay as until 2015 that we don't work. We're waiting for a European trip from someone else. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25639	Thank you. Discussion, Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25640	Gentlemen chairman. So I had no objection to this point being found on today's agenda even though I was aware and said that today's debate would not move things. And the report from the European Commission is their report and it's cruelly true, so we can't change that report. The question here is whether we can change relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina. But unfortunately we are such in Parliament such a country where the European Commission's report on something that has been, where there has been a full consensus,...the European way of fighting. And now this Parliament that's fighting is asking some other addresses for not doing their job. I do not envy the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers at all, I have served for five and a half years. And I think that this Parliament, did this Parliament provide a sub-port to the Council of Ministers on the European path. So, I expected today that we would look at our role in order to achieve the goals outlined, not to argue and argue. But to be honest with page 7 exactly, the adoption of the laws of the reform agenda has been negatively affected by tensions between ruling coalition parties. So is there anything today that's been subported to the Council of Ministers to ask people to work better on the European path. It continues to go – implementation counts... due to a lack of agreement between the ruling coalition. Hey, guys, he's got an address. And today, the ruling coalition is asking the chairman what is not a better report. It's not fair, I don't think it's fair, it's not decent. What is it that has been the strength of the Council of Ministers since the formation itself. We had a parliamentary majority only at the time of the Council of Ministers' election and perhaps half a year behind its Council of Ministers. Here you go, gentlemen, the opposition has the right to ask questions,...not to rejoice that the report is like this. And I think that the competent addresses of the 77 co-ordination mechanism, since the election year is unfortunately nothing to move, should say what this country will do to make the next report better. This country pays the price internally... in all segments and in all reforms. So as long as we don't get more communication inside the country, we'll have reports like this. This Parliament must give an answer... to do so, not to ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers which you are not... This is not..., the European path is not..., but a painful implementation of reforms. And I ask today – is there a parliamentary majority today, whether or not it exists? How will a country that does not have a parliamentary majority ask its executive authority to have better reports? So where is the parliamentary majority's responsibility? So there's a invoice here that was sent, not to Denis Zvizdić, but to the parliamentary majority. I was in the story of listening to it like this when we were working, when there was support and when there was no support, I don't think that's right. I expected today that Parliament from its corner would say what its task is to make the next report better and to say – there is a parliamentary majority, this Council of Ministers has not achieved our objectives, let's thank them. That's correct for me. But we weren't able to give the Council of Ministers a task, and that's why I don't think today's discussion is going to give any results, because we here if we want to have a report as it is and if all addresses don't ask themselves what they need to do to make the next report better than the Council of Ministers.... Even if they said here's the Council of Ministers should be responsible then they tell us the coordination mechanism, and then they tell us why there's no dialogue inside the country. So when have we had a meeting at the highest levels to talk about the European pathway lately? Was it forbidden for anyone to call it? And that is why I think that the two-faced behaviour of us here in this House will not help the Council of Ministers, nor the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This report is what it is, and we'll see what happens next. If this continues without clear parliamentary support, clear strategies, clear relations, enhanced dialogue within the country, I would like the next reports to be no worse than this. But what the people say is still turning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25641	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25642	Dear colleague Nikola, great everything but we will enter the European Union very quickly, I hope you listen to me, Nikola, because you... Nikola Lovrinović [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, I don't know. We will enter the European Union at this rate very quickly. Every year, up to 150,000 young people outside, we are in the European Union. And I suggest that we direct the European Union 5-6 thousand questions, and they answer us, that they answer us brothers what they think and think that they respect us and enter our union, that they see how it is done in the Union, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, that they see those Musa shout at the goat, and that the young leave their country, so that Europe will empty out for a moment. 78 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25644	Thank you. Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25645	I don't know why my colleague Backović was talking to me, because I think... _________(?) NICOLA [[no microphone turned on]] Wait a minute, but since the topics that are crucial to this country are opening up, nothing my zaime is your story, not mine, not here will help. What are European values? A Europe without borders? Shall we make a ghetto? It's not a problem that young and unemployed go away, but the problem is that they leave and the employees go away. _________(?) Everybody doesn't go. NICOLA
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25648	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25649	My kolega Backović, here, I would immediately ask them one question, to the European Commission – what do they need the new 500 additional questions, except to lose three months? What, are they gonna get something new to know about us? Nothing new will ever know what they don't already know. But watch out for their observations to someone who reads them and their report, look at this, in the responsibility of the administration, there in the reform of the public administration, I don't know what this page, third, fourth, says – organization and type of organs, I read in language, it's not Croatian, but here I understand, organizations and types of public administration bodies remain unclear. How can I be unclear when there's a Constitution, you know what we have under the Constitution, and how, now imagine some MP who reads this, so he thinks there's someone here who knows what kind of Parliament, and sometimes we create it that way, so it doesn't seem to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25650	Thank you. Senad Šepić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25651	Here, I thought, I answered last, in the meantime and colleague Ahmetović answered, but, uh, we asked for a hearing...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25652	Please, I beg your turn. Senad
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25653	We were looking for a debate on this agenda point a month and a half ago as one, so as a need to discuss this on the other hand as a need to put these topics on the agenda. You remember that there was then a request for a special session on the statements of some politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina, about some of their threats to the war, etc., and as one rational answer on the other hand was the requirement to discuss this issue. Here, after a month and a half, we have this on the agenda. And what do I want to say in the end? So, the first thing is to get the fucus back to the BiH Parliament, to focus on talking about European integration, and on the other hand, to make some kind of plan for us to move on. I will not, in particular, look at any discussion from my colleagues before, each of which, in my view, spoke rightly, well-intentioned, but I propose and call for a conclusion, I wrote a single conclusion: – That the BiH House of Representatives undertakes the Council of Ministers, of course, using this mechanism of coordination and reconciliation and agreement with all those who have competences in this regard, that within 30 days, a programme of measures and a plan for realisation that should improve the situation in the area in which the Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018 concludes that there has been no progress in our country or progress in the early phase, as well as improvement in areas where some progress has been observed, and all with a view to making the next report much more positive than this present one. 80 I think that if we are doing this and in this sense we have this kind of focus both in discussions and in the Council of Ministers, regardless of what we are now in some pre-election period, so we are trying in some way to get each other out of some essential job, I think that the Council of Ministers and Governments if they are doing this and if they are doing this in this sense in which I just spoke, then it made sense that this debate of ours and we have some kind of shift in these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25654	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25655	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed colleagues, colleagues. Well, I thought I wasn't speaking on this subject today, but, behold, he insisted on fellow Lovrinović, calling out why we're not talking about this very important topic today. I still think that it is very important today, I thought that even a month ago, and I will think that until Bosnia and Herzegovina is a full member of the European Union, regardless of who will be the chairman, who will be the authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because I think it is primarily our main foreign policy goal and the interest of all citizens in our country, and I hope that this is the topic that most of the citizens in our country agree on in principle. However, we must look ourselves in the eye, in the mirror and see where we ourselves do not contribute that our country goes faster and stronger when it comes to the European Union and its European progress. I agree that not only is the Council of Ministers the address we need to talk about when it comes to both positive and negative progress. I also think it is this Parliament, and I also think that these are entity governments and all structures of the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina that need to amend their regulations and comply with European regulations. However, I will repeat one of my dilemmas that has been going on since they said that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs coordination. I don't think Bosnia and Herzegovina needs coordination. It's a prank, the biggest prank Bosnia and Herzegovina has won lately. First, I think it's unconstitutional, because Bosnia and Herzegovina's wine is a country that also has a Constitution, has institutions and these institutions are defined by their regulations as they should work. Why did the European Union not order to change the Law to the Council of Ministers, so that the Council of Ministers can move faster and that the passing of decisions is better, more efficient, than they have imposed, they told us that we should have some kind of coordination that is certainly not the Constitution. Tell me where in the Constitution of BiH, here, I ask you from the European Union to transfer it to Brussels, where it says that Bosnia and Herzegovina should have coordination? Nowhere. You have only made the process of European integration more complicated in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ran a little agenda called the visa-free regime, I know what it is, I know how hard negotiations are, but we didn't need coordination. We had ministries, so the ministers sat down, so these, so they came up with some solutions. We have now brought in some kind of hornaby yet another body, a parallel body with the Council of Ministers, where in certain situations a canton that does not have a university presides on the subject of higher education. Does that make any sense? Is that constitutional? It's not. Don't experiment with Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think it's too much of the European Union, but it also doesn't need to be ignored by these facts that any government in Bosnia and Herzegovina in this last two or three years, or in the last year, however you will, has failed to fulfil its obligations and that's why we have the report that we have. Here, I hope that some future council will make some concept of how Bosnia and Herzegovina should move faster towards the European Union. I don't think that coordination within the institutions was good, between Parliament, the Council of Ministers, governments, entities, etc. So there was to look for space to make a step, and make a body up to 100, 200, 300, 500 people who don't know what they're doing, they don't know who's in charge, so that's, excuse me, so I love this country more than the European Union, and it's more than the European Union, and don't make it any kind of a hornet institution that, here, we see where, with Kosovo, that even part of the European Union hasn't recognised. Or maybe that's the third reason, here in this country there are most Muslims, and in Kosovo most Muslims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25656	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25657	He asked me to report to Mr Sadik Ahmetović. So, I'll just say, let's say, for example. In 2013, a federal co-ordinator in front of the Federation government in the working bodies had no need to inform the European Commission that the constitution said that the two ministries in the Federation, culture and education were unconstitutionally set up. And when I asked him at a session -- why didn't you inform the European Commission, he said -- I'm not an interpreter of the Constitutional Court's decisions. And this federal coordinator was also reporting to the Federal Ministry of Education to the European Commission. That's why he needed the coordination mechanism, Mr. Sadik. But he could have been as you say, he could have been made up of ministers. So they didn't tell us what he was supposed to be and whether he should have assistant ministers, professional associates and any. After all, we created it, but it's about not respecting the powers, that someone was playing the system exactly in these sentences that I was saying. So forget it's a constitutional arrangement, so somebody doesn't ask the county who's directly in charge of something, and they report to the European Commission on the state of it, so there had to be a co-ordination mechanism to make the stories worse. I gave you an example of how it was done. So that's why, in my opinion, he should have, and whether he could have been different, more effective, whether with this many people, they might have agreed with you, maybe he could have been different, maybe it could have been, I don't know, to do things faster, some people, or institutes who had more authority to solve issues at some point than maybe how it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25658	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25659	If you think I don't know how he came into existence and how he was placed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you're wrong, that coordination mechanism. So take the stenograms of HDZ MPs from Croatia to the European Parliament and you will see. So, I know, but let me write in the Council of Ministers' Law that every minister co-ordinates with the ministries of entity, cantonal, etc. Was that not enough to adopt regulations from the European agenda? I think it is, not to build a parallel institution that only complicates the above relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, that's my opinion, and I'm not going to step down from that opinion and it's going to show up, and nobody knows yet when it's going to be 82 shut down. When, will it be a parallel institute for another 10, 20, 50 years? Those who have easily accepted it bear great responsibility for the functioning of the country both in pre-accession and in the time when Bosnia and Herzegovina is a member of the European Union, and they say, here, we will see when.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25660	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25661	Mr. Chairman, to tell you the truth, and it's not some correction to the wrong assumption, but I just wanted to say this, we can talk about whatever we want here, the results show that this country is going back, that we are not able to agree on anything here. Here is the point of whether something is in line with the Constitution or something is not in accordance with the Constitution, not the better life of citizens, not stability and perspective, and both states and each individual. And we're not going anywhere like this. About your report is what it is, but it's not something that can be an incentive, but it is, maybe, to get each of us to start thinking. I have a discussion on three sides of the negativity in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but believe me, I won't say it, because I will no longer discourage myself, let alone those who hear this discussion. This is simply not good, this has turned into a pre-election campaign, and for the people, Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole none of this will be better. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25662	Thank you. Deputy Chairman, correction of the wrong allegation, Borjan Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25663	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. My correction of the wrong quote refers to the presentation of fellow Sadiković(?). My colleague, this coordinating body is absolutely no parallel body and certainly not a body that would in any way slow down the European path. All of us are responsible for progress and for the European path, no matter how much some of us stand out here and advocate it, means that each of us is single, and basically all of us institutions, and even all of this together depends not only on the will of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but, of course, we know well, from the European Union. What's important here to emphasize, what you want, at least that's how I realized, ignoring, is the Constitution of BiH. They cannot co-ordinate certain ministries with other ministries, with members, i.e. the European Union and the European Commission because there is a Constitution that has defined competences and has said why the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are responsible. We know life takes place in entities. Within the Federation entity, there is, too, an explicit responsibility for some of the responsibilities that you mentioned, as far as education is concerned. ...and as long as there is, I agree with my colleagues that this path has slowed down and that it really does not depend solely on the will of us, we can all contribute in one other way, but I would like to say that in no way is the decision on the co-ordination mechanism and must not be an obstacle to the rapid development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or to the European Union. So, until we change the Constitution, if we want to change it, it's up to us again, we choose to make it simple, to be a real state to measure all three constituent peoples and other citizens and to be part of the European Union, not to be part of one 83, and on the other hand through the same legal framework in a way we slow down all of these reforms and all of these processes. Thank you very much. Mladen
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25664	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25665	I thank you, Chairman. Well, you know, it's interesting, I'm not going to say that the Council of Ministers is ideal and that he wasn't making mistakes, but we can't say that they're responsible for something that they're absolutely not responsible for. Or, let's say, even blame Croatia's MPs in the European Parliament. The co-ordination mechanism, respected counterpart Ahmetoviću, was established by Council of Ministers Decision 2003. So it's nothing new and it was a condition that we could submit a credible application. And this document that we have now is nothing more than a copy of the 2003 document. So that's not this Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25666	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25667	I, too, want to correct the allegations of counterpart Ahmetović because his colleague obviously did not take care that different levels of government have different obligations on their way to the European Union, respecting constitutional competences. Therefore, it is not only the Council of Ministers responsible for the tasks that exist towards the European Union, but each level of competence. And we saw in the report, after all, if we follow, not just this one, but all the other reports from different areas, we'll see that somewhere a little clearer, even decadently saying what level he's done. So we can look at energy, energy, energy, and we'll see. So that's the one thing I wanted to say. And the other thing I wanted to say is that I didn't answer for a discussion on this agenda point because I'm signing my fellow Špirić's discussion, so I'm fully signing his discussion, and here I am, as if I've said what he said.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25668	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25669	Well, no, I mean, I said here that my position, so, but also my colleague, uh, Novaković, many wishes in the pre-accession period, when you take, you analyze the accession periods of the countries to the European Union, you'll see that they had to change the constitution, and we're being invoiced from Brussels to create a coordination mechanism to slow this country down even more. So that's the difference. Slovenia has changed the Constitution five or six times in the pre-accession period. We were better off if 84 changed even if the Council of Ministers Act could function that part called before the decision-making process. However, it is incorrect, incorrectly, with the lobby that was in Brussels was made as it is and you now have entities that can block some decisions in the country, through the coordination mechanism we made that cantons can block the state. So, I'll never agree to that. Whoever thinks that's good, that's his problem, I'll never agree to it, I repeat, because I love this country more than any European Union, and I like this country to be a member of the European Union tomorrow, I don't have a problem with it, but I love it more. If it will, therefore, be the function of entering the European Union, it should be the integration of the state, not de zyning. We now have the disintegration of the state and that's the problem, that's the problem, that a canton can block you that doesn't have, I tell you, has nothing to do with high education blocking our processes at universities and in Mostar, and in Sarajevo, and in Banja Luka. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25670	Thank you. Mr. Lovrinović has a third correction to the wrong quote, so you can't get a word for it. Salko Sokolović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25671	Thank you, Chairman, for your word. I'm going to do quite a bit because I've already spoken on this subject on several occasions, and I want to...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25672	May I have your attention, please? SALKO
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25673	Just a little quieter colleagues, I mean that we've come as far as we've come, is that, at this point, we can't, or at this point, even by not getting a haircut, or by saying that the results are either better or weaker, we're where we are. It's not just the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, it's what we've all found, there's the Presidency of which, here, no one's going to speak, the governments of the entity and the Brcko District, whether, the judiciary, the prosecution and what's in that chain of responsibility, etc. What I want to point out here once again, and none of the coelgians and colleagues in previous discussions are referring to that topic is electoral legislation, because that is the condition whether we are going to talk further on this subject, whether after the election we will have the authority to continue where they have left off or where we have come at a given moment. It is a very serious topic, a topic that, after the October elections, if we don't resolve this issue can cause some tension, I would say, in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Constitutional Court has erased the decree within the law, we cannot form the House of Peoples and I repeat it once more, because, and this House of the Federation people is a condition that we have a president and vice president of the Federation, that we have a federal government, that we have a House of People, that we have a Council of Ministers, etc., that can be a very difficult problem, I don't know how aware we are. Here, members of the European Commission have called on political leaders to solve the problem. That's what we're supposed to do here in Parliament. It has not, it has not given us, or given us no space for the political leaders and the Council of Ministers that we within this House are resolving this issue. We have often criticised the Council of Ministers that it has done little on this European path, and it is true, and perhaps because someone has ordered them, is it. We didn't come to the situation with the Council of Ministers on certain legal projects 85 we discuss, but the Council of Ministers delivered certain legal projects, and we talked about it, take it or leave it on that system. Which is why we didn't talk, and that's the question. And again I return this story to the electoral legislation, and I remind all of us that the BiH Constitutional Court's reaction in 2010 in Mostar did what it did and today Mostar is not resolved. So then the gentlemen of the OHR came and abolished 34 councilmen's mandates, left one councilman elected. Well, in Mostar, we have something that we don't know about what's called in that legal framework at this point, everything works, and by the logic of the legislation, it shouldn't work because we don't have a city council, etc. Don't let us have a similar situation in the Federation after the October elections, and in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not in Republika Srpska, because it works in a different way, it won't need the House of Peoples, etc. I just once again want to warn us all here and remind us of this problem and call on all those responsible in this election legislation process to be active in this period until the elections and that this story will finally end because many of this will depend on the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina after the October elections and when it comes to further work, progress, or stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25674	Thank you. I am concluding a debate on this point and Chairman Zvizdić eventually wanted to address it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25675	Thank you, Chairman. I will use only one minute to correct a statement or a real fact, especially because of the correctness towards the public, and especially because of the European Commission, both in Brussels and representatives of the European Commission in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are truly our sincere, loyal partners, who are also the biggest advocates of the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is why the door of the European Union is Bosnia and Herzegovina and is open. It is the fact that during the discussion there were more findings that the representatives of the European Commission said they would send us additional questions because the answers provided by Bosnia and Herzegovina were not good, quality and not clear. So, never, never and no one from the European Commission, from Brussels, or from Bosnia and Herzegovina has said such a thing. Such a statement does not exist unless some medium has invented it. I repeat, therefore, no one from the European Commission has ever said that the answers delivered by Bosnia and Herzegovina are not good, quality or clear. Whether we will get additional questions we do not know yet, but we do know the practice in the region that all Western Balkan countries have received additional questions and we assume by this practice that we will probably get additional questions as well. Again in the discussions, we're going to get 500 questions. Never, nobody said anywhere that we would get 500, 200 or 1,500 questions, but here, just let me have five seconds, so Montenegro had 2,178 questions, I repeat, Bosnia and Herzegovina got 3,242, Montenegro had 2,178 questions, it got an additional 673, Serbia had 2,483 questions, 1,000 less than Bosnia, it got an additional 629. Albania had 2,280 questions, received an additional 500. So, we don't know how many questions we're going to get, for reasons of correctness to the public, the representatives of the European Commission have never said that. And finally, I want to thank everyone who participated in the discussion. I am particularly pleased that what I said at the beginning is that the report treats all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, legislative, executive and judicial, not only for the work of the Council of Ministers, 86 but for all institutions including the state, and entities, and all other institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the fact that the relationship with this Report was best summed up in his discussion by the distinguished representative Fehim Škaljić, who said it was working, that it was progressing, but that it could have been more. And indeed, it has been done, it has been made progress, perhaps more could be done, whenever it is done more, but the most important finding is that it was done in relation to the inherited period when eight years of European integration issues were not actually done. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25676	Thank you. I'm closing the eighth point. We're going to the ninth point, Ad. Nine. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Export and Credit Agency of BiH for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-874/18, of 03.04.2018 The House College has been designated by the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission as responsible for examining the Report. The component of the report is also the business plan of the BiH Export-Credit Agency for 2018. The competent Commission delivered Opinion 29.05.2018. The Commission unanimously adopted the Work and Business Plan Report and proposed their adoption to the House. I'm opening a debate. Mirsad Isaković, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25678	I thank the chairman. Well, therefore, this is one situation where the Council of Ministers has gone, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, has shown no credibility, whether or not, and the urgency in the sense that this Agency would put a focus on interest and achieve better results. Namely, what do I mean? This report, therefore, was created by the Management Board, which was held for the first time in 25.10.2017. So in two months, he made this report. The board of directors came to the post when the term of office of the previous Management Board had expired for three years. So this is a situation that's a little unusual. What I resent to the Council of Ministers is the fact that neither this Council of Ministers, nor the previous Council of Ministers, has ever been in accordance with the Law establishing an Export-Credit Agency appointed by an Interminister Council, therefore, the authority which was intended to give tasks and objectives, i.e. instructions, whether or not, to the Export-Credit Agency. Therefore, the Management Board did not adopt, did not establish in time, did not define the founding capital of the Management Board which, I think, is 55 million, which consists of donor funds and loans. When it comes to that, he did not define whether this Management Board, as far as entities are concerned, was it, in fact, annuity, who pays for these anunities. So this is one situation where the Council of Ministers has not shown any interest in this Agency, and we know that there is no state in the world that does not have one such agency that deals with export support, so export operators and that encourages exports. If we look at this report ourselves, we'll see a few things. First, that it was defined in this report of genetic events which are very problematic and we have a resuscitative report, 87 business for 2017 and we have a plan for 2018. The previous-term report would have been better off if it hadn't been mentioned here for the simple reason that the situation in the Export Credit Agency which issued guarantees without cover, so the accumulated loss was 189.121,000. The obligations of this Agency are greater than the total assets of 136 million, for 136 million are greater obligations than the total assets of the Agency. What's left of this agency? There are three scenarios. This agency should be shut down, therefore, by the first scenario to shut down and form a new agency, to carry out recapitalisation or reorganisation. There is no other solution, because we have no defined by the Council of Ministers what to do. If we observe the audit report, we will see that this report, that the audit report has given a more abstention of opinion, for a simple reason, is the reason why they could not obtain sufficient and appropriate evidence for an audit opinion. Be careful, the Agency, the Auditory Report, the auditors could not obtain the documentation provided by this Report. And one remark about the College, I think this report should have gone to the Finance and Budget Commission, because this is more of a Commission issue for Finance and Budget than a Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. So it's like this along the way. To return to the 2017 report, therefore, in two months this Management Board has made a report. The revenue generated was in 2017. 3,5 and 3,436,000, respectively, more than 2016 for 201 million, so 3,200,000 were all in 2016. And the revenues achieved are mainly from their own activities, which are 417 – 2.261,000 and 418, other revenues, 1,175,000. The expenditures are very interesting. On line 408 other expenditures, negative conto, negative course difference that is relative to It's not like I'm...? [[the speaker is warned on time]] I'm just getting started on my mother. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So here is a very interesting thing that the write-off of the claim, therefore, is 3,436.000, and the claims have been written off with loans that have reached 1,000,209. The increase in the cost of the contract..., and I will not talk about the contingents now, but mostly the expenditures are 52,000,000 per salary, and we have only 13 employees, and of that, the director and two deputies who are in Mostar, Banja Luka and Sarajevo, and the increase in income on that basis, i.e. expenditure is 52 million. The fixed funds are....../the speaker compared to the end of 2016 are reduced by 3.5 million. So, and there's a lot I'd have to say, but to say that the situation is more than desperate and matured for one, a complete bankruptcy in which we need to find a variant of what this agency is. Thank you very much, I'm sorry that...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25679	Thank you. Representative Mensura Beganović, debate. You have the word of counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25680	I thank the chairman. As for the Report submitted to us by the Export Credit Agency Management Board, I will look back on only a few things since I was a member of the Commission who dealt with the Export Credit Agency for quite a long time and I know a lot of details about the problem in this Agency. The statement that can be found today from this 2017 report is the following. The export credit agency does not perform its basic function, therefore, is unable to perform what it was formed for, which is why it was established, because of very familiar circumstances and it is now in this previous year, and I think that this first part of 2018, in the same situation, is actually working to survive, only to cover the operational costs of staff in the Agency and the costs that 88 go with their activity. So it does not fulfil the basic function of supporting our exporters, therefore, businessmen who need guarantees to negotiate businesses outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Bosnia and Herzegovina. In any case, therefore, the fate of the Export Credit Agency is very questionable. And what I can only say at this point is that another material has been prepared that is likely to come to debate on this House. About the modalities of solving the survival problem of the Export Credit Agency, whether it survives or not, or whether it will shut down and form some new one, it is quite an open question. What is the fact that support to the Export Credit Agency was not given to all those who should have actually given it support starting with the Council of Ministers and individual ministries. What is also evident in this Report is that even those judgments received by the Export Credit Agency in court, the execution of these judgments goes very difficult and even the Irish judicial authorities are not prepared to transfer, in accordance with the law and the principle of urgency, the resolution of these judgments to the competent courts, so that the end of the proceedings is unnecessarily difficult. And what the Export Credit Agency could earn and put into effect the need to give the guarantees it needs to the exporters of Bosnia and Herzegovina no opportunity to collect funds, nor to deploy those funds in the right way. As regards the 2018 plan at the end of this plan for 2018, I must note that this is not well defined as the last one listed as the UNIS restructuring plan, because this is not directly related to the restructuring of the UNIS, but rather to the restructuring of the Export Credit Agency, because it is one of the requirements given at the Council of Ministers, i.e. the House of Peoples and the Parlametary Assembly in 2017. These are the three items relevant for the launch of an initiative by the Management Board to take concrete measures in accordance with adopted proposals for the launch of an initiative related to the amendment of the Law establishing the Export Credit Agency and to launch an initiative to introduce the rights and obligations of the Founder of the Export Credit Agency. So these are the conclusions that shouldn't be standing here, they really need to, but somewhere else in the plan, so I think they need to correct it. Otherwise, this report, both the Management Board, both the Auditors' Houses and the 2018 Plan, was supported by the Commission for Exports and Customs, but I agree with counterpart Isaković that he should give the word here, that he should give the final word and the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25681	Thank you. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, debate. Here you go, counsel. SEMSUDIN
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25682	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We are today discussing the Management Board's Report of the sweat-credit agency, not the work of the Export-Credit Agency. I will remind this House that during the past and the previous year we had a formed Ad hoc commission to examine the business and work of the exactly Export Credit Agency regarding the problems created by providing guarantees to the UNIS, the Dervent tube factory. And this Commission dealt with this business, I was a member of that Commission, and it submitted a report to this Parliament, which reached certain conclusions in 26.07.2017, and on the basis of these conclusions it asked the competent authorities to submit a proposal for healing measures, namely the rescue of this Export Credit Agency, which is a necessary need for export-oriented legal entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we'll probably discuss this document at the next session. It is to be assumed that the competent commission will again be the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs and we, as regards the Management Board's work report, have given a positive assessment, I repeat, of the Export Credit Agency 89, in fact given the opportunity to the newly formed Management Board to do something to save this Agency. For this reason, here, I call on my colleagues and colleagues to actually today we may not discuss all the problems that we have discussed all these several sessions and, not to say, years, about the situation in the Export-Credit Agency which is needed as an institution, I repeat, to our economic operators who have export jobs, therefore, here I call on colleagues to give a chance, meaning, to the newly formed Management Board and to try to save this Agency, and at the next session we will have three measures proposed to save this agency as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25683	Thank you. The word is represented by Nikola Špirić, we have Mirsad Isaković, a representative, not keeping the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25684	Sorry, it was a mistake. It was supposed to be a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25685	Here you go. Correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25686	Yeah. Well, look, here's the basic thing that this agency made mistakes in 2013 when it issued guarantees without cover. 189 million were given without cover due to a poor assessment of the management, of whoever was issuing the Export Credit Agency. So now that we've come into this position, I think that when we had the Commission who worked on this job for a year and which came to certain conclusions, we should have made concrete conclusions and we should move on to this position that we're in right now. So, I would like to replicate that a lot more commissions, in terms of Mr Mehmedović, are enough commissions, that we should be concrete. Every country needs an agency like this and every state has and, therefore, the more urgent the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25687	Thank you. The word is represented by Nikola Špirić, a debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25688	Ladies and gentlemen. I think there is once again an unpreparedness in this House to look into the truth. ...we don't have an Export Credit Agency. The report on the work of the Export Credit Agency is negative and I am very surprised that the report on the work of the Management Board is positive. Therefore, the work of the Export Credit Agency should be done by other institutions. When someone betrays 180 million bonds without cover, so it's known what it's called, and now this Parliament, you can think of what we're getting into, saving organized
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25689	90 NICOLA [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25690	Here, that said Ahmetović, I won't be so free, he mentions organized crime, but it's not that far away. That's how long it is, what this Parliament has been brought to. So what can the Export Credit Agency do today when it comes to exporters? Nothing. And we say we adopt, we give a chance to the board of directors, 18 people are working and getting paid, because we're not able to call things by name and last name and make a decision to help those people who work there. So I think that if the Agency's work report is negative, I am very interested in how it can be a positive report on the work of the Management Board. And I didn't support the report when I was working at the Export Credit Agency Commission and I know the Agency's work gene, it was there at the time when I was the finance minister and then the warning sign. The international financial institutions that worked with the Agency slowly transferred the problem to us, and then offered a triple solution, for God's sake. Yeah, who's gonna take the 180 million-dollar guarantees? The question arises who are the founders, whether or not, what was done here, how was done. These parliamentary commissions, I don't know, I can't believe we're not able to look into the truth. And this is one serious rock about the neck of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Export Credit Agency. So, no, and the Council of Ministers, has no Council of Ministers much to do with the Export-Credit Agency, so someone has to solve it, but you have to see the initial error first. We must not say that it is called the issue of guarantees without cover, and here we are prepared to accuse each other, it appears, someone put their hand in the pocket, someone this, someone what, so funny, to which it is reduced... the Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Do we have a solution? We don't. Do we know what happened? We don't know. We've received a report, someone says three months from the board of directors. What's the need for poor people, so they have to write some kind of report. So I'm also against the report and I think the Export Agency needs to deal with the competent institutions and suggest if we don't have it, if we don't, how do we get out, who's going to take over what's been done? Anyway, we have one agency that only serves to get paid there, I don't blame them, but no one's going to get into the chain of the Export Credit Agency problem. And I don't think there's any willingness to do this... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25691	Thank you. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. SEMSUDIN
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25692	I have to react because of the correctness of the public. Namely, none of the commissions, nor the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, nor the Ad hoc commission at the head, which I believe was a colleague of Kožul, who is not there, as chairman of the Ad hoc Commission for the Study of Irregular Affairs of the Export Credit Agency with a focus on this particular problem. kolega Špirić was the chairman of the Council of Ministers when these problems began. It seems to me that he did not respond adequately at the time when he was chairman of the Council of Ministers, because the work of this Agency from the beginning at the beginning seemed to be inconclusive, because he was more set up on an agreed basis than on a legal basis. After that, never adequate, here is the Council of Ministers, the finance has not met to give a framework for the work of this Export Credit Agency, which is needed as an institution, here, we also saw on this case the Dervent Pipe Factory. Therefore, the Ad hoc commission has provided all the findings that it has come to the D.A.'s office and let them do their job. Although, I will agree that there are 91 organised crime elements, and even reach courts, both municipal and higher levels that have actually done everything to ensure that these agencies do not exist. So, if the goal is to shut down this agency, then next time we're going to consider this document and we're going to say, "Let's shut down the Agency and finish the story," but I don't think it's correct to accuse especially those commissions that have been working on this matter day and night. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25693	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25694	While I was talking about the Export Credit Agency, I didn't want to get hot chestnuts pushed into my hands by the agency. And even those who came from international financial institutions... were aware that the Council of Ministers had nothing,...there is no jurisdiction. Well, I'm telling you, it's Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, and it's not all the responsibility that belongs to me okay, I'm not running away from it, but I'm sorry that you're defending the defenseless today. So why do we need this, I'm just asking why we need these, if we need an Export Credit Agency, but one that can work. Whoever greased the mustache should answer, hello... 180 million. 180 million is huge money, so let go of more... and the story in this House, accusing individuals, he seems to have been here, been there. Here when we have the data we're not able to call a thing by its real name. What will any commission do when it comes to the Export Credit Agency? We're distracting ourselves and the Export Credit Agency. I'm sorry, I was in the commission, I know we didn't accept the report and you know how I discussed it and then, and I'm sorry those people out there who don't know where the way out is. ...we need to get to... how the problem has arisen. And they wanted it to be inserted into the Council of Ministers, and I didn't allow it, and I don't think this Council of Ministers should be charged until it's been determined that a guarantee has been issued. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25695	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25696	Well, somehow he's got to get rid of it, please. But when things are radically set up in this country, they take a while until they reach culmination. And I don't think it can culminate any further, we have an agency on paper that isn't functional, we have an indicator that was happening there. And everybody pulls, all the sheep on the number and everybody pulls the sieves. And you know what? ... employment at the Agency, and I have to tell you, someone is defending..., someone is defending... Someone's defending that guy, and there's no money. [[You don't understand.]] And then later they all stand behind their own Now, that's Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So why don't we stand behind the development, behind the new investments and stand behind the crime. That's the question. So if there's anyone... okay, I don't mind, people... my job. But to me, it couldn't have been a problem because it wasn't. Thank you very much. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25697	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25698	There, there were these dilemmas, yes,.... It is organized crime. If someone doesn't know what it's called there... there are still prosecutors and judges and lawyers in the Agro-Agrokomerc case, still living people, working, I think everyone in Sarajevo and Tuzla, it's about organised crime that pays the citizens of this country. If we're going to have 10 agencies that aren't going to do anything, that are going to steal, and they're going to be taken from the country by 200 million, so we better not have them. We'll save the Agency by layer. We'll save the crime. We have prosecutors who don't do anything, in this country steals every step of the way who gets here and... and then we get into this situation. And that's why I think these questions, when this question is, that BiH Prosecutor's Office, although I don't believe in it anymore, because any day, wherever I go, they talk to me about thieving and crime, so neither does the BiH Prosecutor's Office. ... would be... an indicator that works at least when it comes to crime. Here until we have a special prosecutor's office that in a year will fill that state penitentiary that's new upstairs, this country won't... step forward, certainly won't. As long as we have these prosecutors who match their party bosses and respond, and most party bosses are pretty much tied up with different criminals and criminal groups, that's why people are running from this country. This is where we need to talk about it, this is where we need to talk about it, Well, even if it was that famous one I didn't hear about until they did, that they existed until they committed this crime, I didn't know that... [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25699	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Isaković, correcting the wrong allegations. You're welcome, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25700	Thank you. Well, unlike Mr. Špirić, I think the opposite. I think the Council of Ministers is responsible for this precisely because it was obliged to form an inter-minister council composed of entities and Council of Ministers. It's on one side. And on the other hand, it had to define the founding capital that consisted of... and donor funds, as much as it belonged to the funds. Here come the anuity on this basis, by these loans, we don't know who, who, how much does that annuity pay, which entity pays as much, how much who uses the funds, etc., etc. And I would agree with one more thing Mr. Špirić, so here surely politics has deep roots and I think this is a crime that should... I don't believe that 60,000 tons could have entered this country without knowing where, 60,000 tons of iron that serves to build, make... pipes. We... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] 93 65 thousand tons. So, that amount... if it could get into customs that no one knows, whether... people were issuing guarantees based on a poor assessment, the risk assessment was no one's doing. So this is about a comprehensive procedure that certainly has its genes in both politics and in all other segments of society, so in the judiciary we said, because there we saw the courts as they made decisions, and in customs, etc., etc. And I think this is the problem that we need to solve now, as I said, the time has come for the commissions to bring nothing, so this problem has to be solved and that every country has... and that one of these agencies needs this Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25702	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25703	I wanted to say that I was a member of this commission of inquiry who, and this fellow Špirić probably didn't know, that we had an investigative committee that had done all that was expected of her and made some conclusions and we know that the problem was that IGA was basically out without consulting entities, that IGA, that the decision was made that Bosnia and Herzegovina should only belong to donations, and entities only credits. When they came to... the story on the subject, the entities disagreed, and that's where the problem begins. The story of this crime is in the jurisdiction of the institutions and they're doing it, this isn't going to get out who thinks, who committed the crime and thinks they're going to get away with it. Those who have made and given this kind of funding beyond all obligations and rights will pay the penalty for it, but what about us and the institution. So, the World Bank has given six possible solutions, but each after that, after each solution is asked, and who will pay this kind of money, who will pay 170, 180 million for this and that is a key question and therefore cannot be freed from the Council of Ministers of Responsibility. So the Council of Ministers didn't say anything about everything we did as an investigative committee, he was supposed to deal with the team. IGA, on several occasions, addressed and prayed that, there was some sort of agreement, no one wanted and what we now have, an institution that must exist because, there is a founding document that has to exist. How does it exist? So by making further losses, this is an alarming condition to end the fate of this institution. So, everyone said we don't need an institution like this, a new institution that would know who with how much money is coming in, whose property is in that part, that's a new foundation, and who's going to pay for it and that money, that's what's left to suggest the Council of Ministers. So we're wasting time just to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25704	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, you have the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25705	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This is a very complex problem and a problem that will very strongly reflect on many who want to work, pro-pulsively work towards the outside. This is a very complex problem first of all, this is something that is unmarked in any country, even in transition states. In Bosnia and Herzegovina alone, this is the case, only Bosnia and Herzegovina has no support for those who work towards the outside and outside, which are the creators of excess values and imports of excess value through money in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is it organised or not, to my question on the Commission – did you perform the placement under political pressure? The head's down and they're nodding from the IGA. So 94 things are perfectly clear, that they are, and the placement is done under political pressure. How is it possible that the rate of return of funds is immeasurably higher in the Federation than in Republika Srpska? No one's gonna say it like this directly. How is it possible that the Municipal Court in Doboj makes a verdict that makes it impossible for a state institution to realize, block and reach its resources? How is it possible that Republika Srpska's amendment to the law on bankruptcy and the law on bankruptcy is made by the company that matches the plant pipe in Derventa? This was to be discussed openly, the subject should be spoken openly, and it should be spoken plainly. How is it possible that in the total export balance of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so as we speak, I have to because it's easier for me, plastic is not to be seen, the Federation – X, Republika Srpska – Y, where this X is much bigger, I speak exportably, and that the plasma is vice versa Y and X, immeasurably larger in Republika Srpska? IGA couldn't come out of itself, entities weren't in agreement, entities when business is out there, entities don't know the state with the state, they don't know, when state-level guarantees only know the state. I don't know how much they've met our colleagues, Bosnia and Herzegovina has been and received the job of building South European Port, the first port of entry for Europe. Bosnian firms were the first to prequalify, Europe decided it would be Drač in Albania, but it did not pass because they could not provide guarantees, and IGA has no IGA, is it not possible to give it, whether or not, that's a few billion jobs. Is it known that Bosnia and Herzegovina has won the construction of sports facilities in the United Arab Emirates and what should be called the next World Cup in football? And yet there is no guarantee and, of course, it has failed, and it could have worked thousands of Bosnian hergic workers, not as slaves, but as well as well paid, and as they used to do jobs outside, these are, I'm telling you exactly, because I know what companies and what consortium companies were associated with, I know exactly by name and last name. Bosnia and Herzegovina could build Munich Olympic Stadium, but it cannot make it into Dubai because it will not stop the state from the firm, and the joint companies were also from the Federation. and from Republika Srpska to say so, in order for there to be none, together they went in a consortium with another company from Croatia. [[the speaker is warned on time]] But that's why he got the Štrabak, the Štrabak managed to get the guarantees of his banks from Austria, who are doing the same business here, and they didn't want to give ours, Raiffeisen, let's say, the bank, as an example. It's hard for us to come with us. We steal and rob ourselves and enjoy what's called right now without thinking about what might happen to us tomorrow, and tomorrow, under these conditions, is not the light. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I suggested one conclusion, which you got, and please put it within this point to vote on it, the conclusion, and I'm going to suggest it right now out loud.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25706	Time's up, Mr. Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25707	Okay, I suggested it so you...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25708	One minute and seventeen, we have a conclusion in final form.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25709	Thank you... thank you...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25710	Thank you. Nenad Lalić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25711	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. Here's a few words for me, since I was a member of the Export Credit Organization Investigation Commission. The Commission had no difficult task, it recognised problems and proposed through the conclusions of some of the measures. It wasn't a difficult task because it's clear to everyone as a white day what happened in the Export Credit Organization. In my opinion, of course there's a basis for, there's a basis for doubting that there's even organized crime, and we're all talking about the consequences now, and we're not talking about the causes of what happened. When I say IGA, I can't mention one of their main communicators, and that's the UNIS -- the Derventa tube factory. There were others, and they're the most significant participants there, not to say, it's normally clear there were various forms and pressures, so. I don't see, Mr. Zaim Backović has suggested that the Agency be abolished, but no one is saying what to do to make it happen again, what Mr. Špirić said today, crime has domesticated, people are dared and free to do these things because they don't see examples that someone is sanctioned, that at least they armed someone if anything else, so our people say it. So, I think this is a bad message for both citizens and for us and we take the test here both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska and then, when someone says, we ask why these young people are leaving, I would no longer say why they leave young and schooled, they don't just go away young or educated, they go away with a list and no one comes back, and one of the reasons is those like the IGA pain. For me, this is one of the more brutal criminal acts that has happened in the last ten years in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I'm surprised, we've given guidelines to both the Prosecutor's Office and the institutions, is it possible that no one is doing anything after this, this is the simplest example of crime, organized theft that happened in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if this problem can't be solved then really nothing can be solved. And that, of course, exceeded 200 million, and when you add to that another 20 million based on VAT from the Dervent tube factory, for those 65,000 famous tons of 17%, and that's over 20 million, so it's going to, and it's going to get closer to that 250 million figure, and we're doing nothing in these benches and the D.A.'s doing nothing. I think it's a shame to the citizens, and then we all ask ourselves, what about this famous percentage of 40% of citizens who don't go to elections at all, and here's one of the reasons why they don't go out, they just lost confidence in us, these jobs that we do, because in terms of corruption and crime, nothing happens, it's the most sensitive point, and this people, the mass, the crowd, whatever you want, is asking to settle it once, at least one case to regain trust in the institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25712	Thank you. Mensura Beganović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25713	Thank you. I would like to replicate to my colleague Backović, in fact, rather ask him that this conclusion he has formulated as he has formulated, that the BiH Export Credit Agency should be abolished, and that a whole new institution will be established which will have the task exclusively that it is in the function of export-oriented companies and that will support companies working abroad, to withdraw it. In order not to happen that we have made a hasty conclusion that would be better to offer it at the next session, when we consider material that has not yet come to this House for consideration, which is the report on a detailed analysis of the work of the BiH Export Credit Agency with a special emphasis on the business with UNIS – the Dervent tube factory, with a predominant measure to address the problem in the work of this agency. I was also a member of that Commission and a lot of that information that Mr. 96 Backović said was gone, we got as a Commission, and I was even on, as it is said, an interrogation in the SIPA- and in relation to this case, I think another of the members of that Commission was, so it's not that anything is being done, it's slow going, as we have a lot of things going slowly from the Investigation Agency, so through the Prosecutor's Office etc. And I believe that there are some things going to happen, but I don't want to make a hasty decision, that this House is making a hasty decision about abolishing the Agency, and that we don't have something we can think of as, let's say, a rounded body, an agency, an institution, it doesn't matter, that's going to take over what the Export Credit Agency was supposed to do, is the fact that it's not working, but that we analyze it from all aspects, and then we just make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-30-0.u25714	Thank you. This concludes point 9. Point 10, Ad. Ten. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on the preliminary conclusion of MP Amir Fazlić, who reads: "The House of Representatives' House of Representatives of BiH proposes to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that the Law amending us and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure – Proposer Amir Fazlić (Law No: 01-02-1-668/18, of 05.03.2018), discusses the urgent legislative procedure", Act No: 01-02-1-668/18, dated 18.05.2018. At the 61st session of the House, held on 17.05.2018, the proposal for a conclusion was addressed to the Kolegijum of the doma as a commission. The college didn't achieve consent. There is no debate on this point, and we will later declare ourselves in the second round of voting. Now I would like to inform you that we were planning to have a session by 6:30, now it's 17:50, due to the obligation to belong, I don't know, the obligation in religious terms, some of the MPs have asked for this session to end early, which is normal, which I now see that we here and have no more quorum, so I suggest that we wrap up this session today, and that this session will continue before the next session is scheduled. Do you agree with that? Thank you. This concludes the session until the next regular session. Thank you. Session aborted at 5:50 a.m. 97
