ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3835	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you and open the 35th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency; the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers; representatives of the Foreign Investment Promotion Agency in BiH – FIPA; representatives of the BiH Parliamentary House; representatives of international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly monitor the work of our House. The session is attended by 14 delegates, of which 4 from Bosniak, 5 from Croatian and 5 from the Serbian people. For today's session, the absence was justified by delegate Fahrudin Radončić. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, delegates will be allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that along with the invitation to the 35th session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 35th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Rule 156 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the announcement to ask delegate questions in oral form was submitted by Sead Kadić to the foreign trade and economic relations minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Mirko Šarović and Mario Karamatić, to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this announcement, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the member of the BiH Council of Ministers have been delivered to which the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public TV Service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now you can start asking oral delegate questions and giving answers. I give my word to my esteemed colleague, delegate Sead Kadić. Here you go, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3836	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates in the House of Peoples, ministers in the Council of Ministers, all present, I welcome you all together. 2 My question is, I ask Mr Mirko Šarović, Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, and what is the situation between Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding its status in the Energy Community? What does it take to change the situation? Can all in the chain of responsibility of all levels of government do more to remove the shortcomings and can they do more to both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on this issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3837	Thank you, Mr. Kadić. The word has respected foreign trade and economic relations ministers, Mr Mirko Šarović. Here you go, Mr. Šarović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3838	Thank you, Chairman. Imported delegates. I have a written answer prepared, but I'm going to use these few minutes to maybe take this one, I'd say, another way to explain the situation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are a member of the Energy Community, as you know, since 2006, one of the founders, and then we have taken the obligation to bring our legislation in line with the advanced legislation of the Energy Community, that is, the European Union. The third energy package was supposed to be coordinated on 1 January 2015, so we're three years behind schedule, and for you, we haven't fully coordinated the Second Energy Package. A fourth energy package is being prepared and it is quite clear that Bosnia and Herzegovina is very late and I would say it at the start of implementing its legislation from all the countries of the Energy Community. I have to say that in that sense, a few key documents that are important for, or one that is most important for harmonisation, it is a law on the regulator of electricity and gas, the market and the transmission of electricity that the Ministry has prepared quite early in co-operation with the entity ministers. And in that sense, in 2016, we signed the Agreement, the three of us competent ministers, that we would coordinate our legislation and, within a certain period, deliver it to DG Energy in Brussels, or the Energy Community in Vienna, and such a harmonised law would be, I would say, that key point that would allow Bosnia and Herzegovina to be lifted from the sanctions of the Energy Community, but not just the Energy Community. This law allows us, in addition to advanced legislation, and access to all possible funds and Platforms for the Western Balkans, but also to all European Union funds through pre-accession funds. Without this law, there's no money in this area and it's completely, completely clear. With the prime ministers of the entity, we had the last meetings, I skipped many things, we had 11 ministerial conferences, we harmonised this law to the greatest extent and in November of Vienna we were with, I personally was with the prime ministers of the Republika Srpska and the Federation, in principle we made, and we crossed this law and agreed by the end of December that both entities deliver their opinions so that this law could enter the procedure and be here with you. But it wasn't done. Another important document is a strategy relating to the energy sector. The ministry has provided 300,000 KM from the UK for both state and entity levels, and the minimum amount is to make energy strategies, i.e. bring them into line. We have also reached an inter-entity agreement on this document, but this document has not been entered into the procedure so far, and it practically allows us to pass when it comes to the energy sector. Once again, since time is up, I could probably talk a lot about it, no one's making us pass the law, and no one's forcing us to bring strategy, that's our internal commitment. If we want to be a part of this community, and we have defined ourselves earlier through the 3th establishment of the Energy Community, we have chosen to coordinate legislation, we will go forward, if not, on us, we will continue to suffer sanctions of the Energy Community and we will not be able to invest or receive funds through different projects from the European Union in the energy sector.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3839	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3840	I'll deliver the written answers. I'll deliver it to you later.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3841	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Given today's few questions, I hope you won't mind what we've broken through this little time that is... for Mr. Šarović's answer. I give my word to the distinguished delegate, Mr. Sead Kadić. Here you go, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3842	I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3843	We thank you, too. Now I give my word to the distinguished delegate, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3844	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I'm not going to be happy with the answer because there's obviously no answer for me. I guess I'm a little jinxed, whoever I want to ask him to get away and don't come to the session, but here, I'll give it a bit of a tax code, convinced I won't get a written answer. Why? Because I've already asked several questions about the Foreign Chamber of Commerce that I've never received an answer to. There is even the conclusion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Relations, Transport and Communication to the House of Peoples who confirmed this House, which was sent to the Council of Ministers where it is ordered the Secretary General to deliver the answers that we asked for in the conclusion of this House, meaning, and the Committee. Now let's go into detail, so 22.11. it was at the Council of Ministers meeting, it's been more than 60 days since, the legal deadline is 30 days. The conclusion is only possible, the answers of course have not arrived, that the Foreign Chamber of Commerce is ruling the Council of Ministers and that the Council of Ministers has no influence on this NGO. I would like to miss sometimes, when I said that no one can control it, that no one from the Council of Ministers dares to ask the question, nor the chairman, nor the competent minister, that it will harm Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then we get this affair with the export of apples, where the Inspectorate of Republika Srpska says, I will quote that there is no question that I said something – in the light of the documentation delivered, it has been found that as a producer, a natural person from Gradac is listed in the Federation, as an exporter of the legal entity from Bijeljina, the shipment was exported through the customs branch of Brcko District, meaning that the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina is covered, for the shipment, I stress, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of Bosnia and Herzegovina issued a form of origin of goods which confirms that the goods originating in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is good, I thank the Foreign Chamber of Commerce for the great expansion of our one and only, so today it is Bosnia and Herzegovina and in certain dukeries in Poland. We received 4 damages from about 40 million KM as far as exports were concerned, exports were suspended and now I am interested in the question, I hope that from the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers I will receive it in writing, at least we must not or may not, my question is specifically related – May the Council of Ministers and Council of Ministers do what is provided for by law, i.e. to monitor the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Foreign Chamber of Commerce? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3845	I thought he'd be able to answer one of the deputies, but since it's a question of whether he's allowed to chair, I don't know if they'd answer if he's laughing. So none of the vice presidents would answer your question. You now have the right to say your replica based on all this, that you want it in writing, of course, is it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3846	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3847	Thank you. In accordance with Rule 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this announcement, the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH and that member of the Council of Ministers, therefore, to which it relates, are also the questions we have not received the answer to in writing. After all this, we're going to work on today's program. So for the 35th session, I propose the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 34th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 5th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 3. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018 (first reading), delivered by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, No: 01,02-02-1-2882/17, since 14.12.2017; 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2015/17, of 09.08.2017, shortened procedure; 5. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law (first reading) – Proposer: BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, Law No: 02-02-1-1830/17, since 20.12.2017; 6. Report by the BiH Ministry of Security on migration trends and activities in the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of migrants and asylum seekers, issue: 03/6-37-1226/17, since 12.05.2017; 7. A report on the implementation of the revised strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement for 2016 – applicant: Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, issue: 01,02,03-37-2251/17, since 19/09/2017; 8. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period January-June 2017, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-16-1-2481/17, of 20.10.2017; 5 9. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: BiH Ministry of Security, number: 01,02-04-2207/17, since 12/09/2017; 10. Information on foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Foreign Investment Promotion Agency material in BiH – FIPA, issue: 01,02-22-2546/17, of 26.10.2017; 11. Information on the presentation held on the subject: "The current state of affairs in fulfilling Bosnia and Herzegovina's obligations under the Energy Community Treaty", Sarajevo, 26.10.2017, delivered by the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications to the People's House, issue: 01.02-05-1-2454/17, of 02.11.2017; 12. Commission report to the Kolegijum on the effort to reach agreement on the ratification of the Status and Functions Agreement of the International Commission for Missing Persons, No 01,02-05-2-1055/17, of 20.04.2017; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of BiH, issue: 01.02-05-22851/17, dated 08.12.2017; 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of the State Programme of Activities for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 between the European Union, represented by the European Commission and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the Directorate for European Integration of the Council of Ministers of BiH, No. 01.02-05-2-2852/17, of 08.12.2017; 15. Giving consent to ratification of the grant treaty between the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe, issue: 01,02-05-2-2871/17, of 12.12.2017; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation for Grant Assistance between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the People's Republic of China, No. 01.02-05-2-2897/17, of 15.12.2017; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Armenia on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic passports, No: 01,02-05-2-2899/17, of 15.12.2017; 18. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement on Tourism Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Hungary, issue: 01,02-05-2-2898/17, since 15.12.2017; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on mutual recognition and replacement of driving licences, No: 01,02-05-2-2919/17, of 19.12.2017; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement in the project between KfW, Frankfurt in Main (KFW), and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH (loan) and Republika Srpska, represented by the RS Ministry of Finance, and the Elektroprivred Republika Srpska (EPC) (the project's realisation agency) for the amount of 60.000.000,00 euros – Vjetropark Hrgud, issue: 01.02-05-2-2921/17, since 19.12.2017; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement for the Interreg V-B Mediterranean programme between the European Union, represented by the European Commission, Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Council of Ministers of BiH, and the Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur, the managing body of the Transnational Co-operation Programme Interreg V-B Mediterranean, issue: 01,02-05-2946/17, since 22.12.2017. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering for the word with the amendment and supplemental proposals? 6 The proposal as far as I can see is gone and then given that in accordance with Article 60. We believe that the agenda has been adopted and is not voted on. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 34th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the minutes of the 34th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, all 13 delegates were in favour. From Federation 9, from Republika Srpska 4. There's a general and entity majority. I realize that the record of the 34th session of the House of Peoples has been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 5th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3851	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable envoys, members of the Council of Ministers, all present. Well, here, there's already a familiar overall situation around the budget, and I wouldn't spend a lot of words there. Since this is a discussion of the principles here, uh, first stage, I just want to say just for the public's sake a few words. So, I'm aware that the budget has been adopted, let's say thank Bog, in the House of Representatives and after the deadlines have been broken, but yet it's adopted and I don't want to sharpen the situation here in the House of Peoples, given the time that leaks to us in all segments, so I also feel the responsibility of this budget in some way being operational, but still that some questions that the Budget is carrying with it simply need to be known. Firstly, we understand, therefore, that there is a fiscal framework which is, in some way, the main limit for a particular species, I would say, a step in budgetary instruments and activities and we know that it is not easy in this complex structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina to reach the budget as one of the fundamental documents in each country. But I still can't help but say a few things about, I would say, the relationship between the majority of parliament and those who do the majority, starting with the Presidency and to the Council of Ministers, in understanding some of the things that are important to Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, we've all publicly defined ourselves and we all publicly advocate that Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement is a strategic matter for this country, aware of all the limitations, but still aware that another large number of people want to return to their homes. How do we treat that fact? So here at position 47. The BiH Return Fund has an estimated 482,000 mark, you can rebuild two houses, three. I've been saying this for years, because I'm one of the founders of this return fund institute, which unfortunately is just turned into one form and, in a way, one fossil framework to create a vision of the country's relationship to this important issue, and when we see the content and essence, we see, therefore, that it's actually brought down to the mere form. As a party, we had amendments to the House of Representatives, they were not accepted and I simply, behold, gave up the procedure, since we all know that we must adopt in the same text, that we do not waste time, but I simply want for the sake of the public to know, therefore, that there is a continuous formal relationship, not essentially according to one of the most important issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because it's no longer a question of how many people will come back, but 8 civil rights and their rights that as long as there is one person that we have to respect it because we have committed ourselves to it. The other thing that also, in some ways, speaks of perception and the relationship of the ruling structures is this part about withdrawing funds for IPA funds. Well, here, in the 2017 Budget, we had five million, and this year instead of increasing that amount and our own engagement and the determination of the strategic issue, this amount was literally cut by one hundred percent and reduced to 2.5 million. I wouldn't comment on it any further, but I don't think that fact speaks enough, talks enough about all of us, I'm not gonna single anyone out here right now. So I simply think that this is one of the points where we had to find a maneuvering space to show that by our own relationship we have the right to seek greater engagement, primarily by the European Commission and its infrastructure institutions to support projects and the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And, here, if not for much longer, I would say one more thing, we know where jurisdiction is legal and constitutional when it comes to science, education, culture, it's clear that it's on entities and it's not controversial and here I don't want to open any political issues in terms of fighting for these powers right now, here's everything to stay the way it is, but at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have the responsibility to show that we understand some of the processes that we should at least symbolically support through these grants in a way, so to say that the state has a relationship, that we have a vision of these important issues. There's only one thing I'm going to mention. So, the grant for the award of cash for credited top-notch international athletes... Look, sport, I don't need to say what it means in terms of the affirmation of every country and every nation and nation, only 100,000 marks are foreseen here. I think that's underestimating what they present in, I would say, very limited, limited conditions for athletes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Secondly, so when it comes to the prize for science, so please give me a better chance that we didn't put anything on, 10,000 marks of the prize for science. This best tells us what our relationship to science is like as a fundamental driver for the development of every society. I think this is really more unsustainable, this kind of approach, so we can't say that we're about to stay young people here, and this is how we treat ourselves. Well, at a symbolic level, at least one million marks were to be singled out and divided into people who deal with scientific and research projects and encouraged them to function in the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And, here, you could go on like that, when it comes to innovation and I'm going to end up with institutions that really have one broader civilization character, I can count them down a few, and last year I was talking about them, from the Earth Museum to the Academy. And this relationship also shows, therefore, not that we are not able to solve the permanent character, their way of doing it, but that in these circumstances we do not recognize all the weight of the problems and the relationships they are going through and the way to facilitate them to these stable and final solutions of life and functioning. Well, here we are, not running away from our own responsibility as envoys and MPs, always being put into a situation, so let's chat about the budget. Although certain shifts have been achieved lately, in the last few years, when it comes to the timely proposal and adoption of the budget, I think we are still in a situation that we do not actually have a maneuvering space to conduct an objective debate in front of the public for a month, two days, as it is done in, I would say, in the competent states and parliaments in a way that knows every position that is set out for it, from where incomes, which are expenditures, where it is possible to increase, where it is not, what priorities and objectively still have very narrow room of manoeuvre. But I also admit that we haven't made enough use of that possibility, so, with ten steps from August of the month to the budget, we as envoys are partners to the people who propose the budget. Well, here, all together, I call on us to understand these circumstances, but also so that we simply don't push our heads into the sand when it comes to these important things and to find the strength to get through these budget reserves 9 and this relationship some things correct in a way, so that we still move and not go back a step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3852	Thank you too, Mr. Raguž. We don't have any further applications for participation in the discussion. Accordingly, I will now inform you of the essential elements related to the procedure, which we are obliged to officially do, which we are sure you know, in the light of communication between the Colleges and the clubs of the people. So you know that in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House shall apply when adopting the budget to regulate the basic and legislative procedure and that the College, in accordance with the position (3) of that member, shall shorten the deadlines and take all other necessary measures for the adoption of the budget, or, where appropriate, amending and supplementing the budget, no later than 15 December of the current year. In view of the breakthrough of this deadline and the deadline related to this provision as an important element of this provision, we will, in the name of the College, agreeing at the last session, propose that, after we have declared ourselves on the budget itself, we adopt a conclusion that, in accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations after the end of the 35th session, the amendment phase for the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018 will be opened for an hour, and that the committee responsible for finance and the budget of the House of Nations shall, after the expiry of the amendment, submit its report on the draft of the law, and which will enable us to now, once we adopt this conclusion, schedule an emergency session of the House of Nations which will discuss this Law in the second reading. So, I'm going to ask you to support this to allow the budget system to function uninterruptedly, in line with the views of the people in position and opposition. Since there are no other applications, I am concluding the discussion. We now move to a statement on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Budžet Law and international obligations for 2018 in the first reading. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 10 delegates were for, against 1 delegate, 3 delegates were abstained. From the Federation – 7 for, 1 against, 1 abstention, from the Republic of Serbia – 3 for, against, none, 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the budget has been adopted, i.e. that we adopted Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international obligations for 2018 in the first reading. Now I call upon you to plead with me on the conclusion proposed by the College. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 11 were for, against 1 delegate, two delegates were detained. From the Federation – 8 for, against no one, 1 abstention, from the Republic of Serbia – 3 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that we have adopted the conclusion of the College of the House of Peoples. I'd like professional services to prepare a call for the session. Now we're going to work at point four, 10 Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2015/17, of 09.08.2017, shortened procedure This is the first reading of the bill and in accordance with Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received opinions from the legislative sector, the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples and the Commission on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has found that the draft law does not comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House but is in line with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. The constitutional committee of the House of Peoples found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. The Commission for Finance and the Budget of the People's House has supported the principles of the Pre-Prolonged Law. At the 54th session, held on 15.12.2017, the House of Representatives adopted the bill in both readings. I give the word to Mrs Ljilja Zovko, the chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House if she wishes. It's like the report. Thank you. I now give the word to the Proposer of the Law if he wishes. He doesn't want to. Thank you. Now we're opening a debate on the law. Please sign in if you want. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 were for, against no one, abstentioned. From the Federation – 8 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone, from the Republic of Serbia – 5 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Salaries and Refunds was adopted in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. We're going to work at point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law (first reading) – Proposer: BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, Law No: 02-02-1-1830/17, since 20.12.2017
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3856	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's the point. I don't know how many times she's been on the agenda, and she's been taken off a couple of times because of the not being present, i.e. Honored Minister or Vice-President at the session. I think this information, so not going into at all how it's done, what's written, that it's out of date, 12 this is from the 5th month of the year. Meanwhile, these migrants have been landscaped across Bosnia and Herzegovina and around Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I would suggest a conclusion that – the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH requires the Ministry of Security to deliver an updated Report on the trends of migration and activities to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of migrants and asylum seekers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3857	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. In view of the content of the conclusion, therefore, I ask you first to state whether you are proposing this conclusion as a previous question which would exclude any further work on this Report or to suggest that, after we have made a statement on this Report, we also vote on this conclusion in order to obtain updated information relating to the period which occurred after the period for which this Report was related. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3858	I suggest we make a statement before the conclusion so we don't discuss this material at all, if the conclusion is adopted, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3859	You have the right to such a proposal. Since this is a previous issue, respecting the role of delegates in this procedure, not the report itself, but the rights of delegate duty, I will consult with my kolegij whether, let's see how, what the College has to say about this. [[/consultations in the College.]] The College agrees that we put this proposed conclusion to the vote, but, given this situation, we will have to do it by binding on Article 175, meaning regulation of the question of conclusion, which would mean that I would explain the consequences, that we are interpreting this situation this time so that we do not apply the regular procedure in relation to the adoption of these reports in practice, but rather, given the flow of time only for this case, because this conclusion regulates individual issues, we are deciding that this material will not be declared at all by the House of Nations, but rather by asking the Ministry of Security, more specifically by the Council of Ministers as a Proposer, to submit a new report that would cover this whole period and in this regard to the day when the Reports are being discussed. You said in your explanation that the reason for this was the fact that so many sessions back in the name of the Ministry of Security did not approach here, which means that only the Ministry of Security in the name of the promoter caused this situation beyond the will of the House of Peoples who regularly placed this point on their sessions. Now I'm going to initiate the procedure... _________(?) 13 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3866	Well, here, as at point 6, this report has already been downloaded several times by the House of Peoples because of the not being present, and I suggest again, means that – the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH requires the BiH Ministry of Security to deliver updated Information on the Security State in Bosnia and Herzegovina for reasons that, in the meantime, it means from the 9th month, it has been five months. In the meantime, we've had a superficial insight into any media and security threats in this country, and arrests of returnees from the Syrian battlefield, full of arms trunks, etc., so it wouldn't be bad, so we have whole material. Same procedure, so if we adopt the conclusion that we're not considering this at all, but that...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3867	Mr. Karamatić, therefore, with all due respect to your proposal, I am obliged, acting in this session, to warn you in some way that this is a different situation. The questions related to the previous point are about emergency circumstances and a certain course of events that could not be affected and which continued to run in the meantime, which means that there is a certain logic, whether political, whether legal, or elementary, of the proposal for a preliminary conclusion. In this case, the information on the state of security of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2016, which means that there are no new events, no new information that could change the information itself, and the information itself, i.e. the statement about it, stems from the Ministry's obligation to provide information on certain periods through the Council of Ministers to the Parliamentary Assembly. Accordingly, I ask you to give up this conclusion because it is simply in conflict with the provisions of the law, i.e. with the elementary logic relating to the period for which it is carried out.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3868	I give up the conclusion, only logically one question, means does it make sense in 2018 to discuss the 2016 Report. It's just talking about the ministry's up-to-dateness. Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3869	Unfortunately, we're not in charge of making a decision on whether it makes any sense. I thank you for your cooperative attitude. Now the word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Sredoje Nović. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3870	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, it's hard to talk today in 2018 about the state of security in 2016, and that's, it's said, and it's essential that this tall House discusses it, but it might be good to consider, if nothing else, a lesson, and to say that for the previous year, the security situation should be considered at least in the first half of the current year. It really doesn't make any sense that today anything about this Information we say even though it deserves to be said more seriously about it in several places, and we here but others who are even more in charge than we are. I'll just have two or three notes or notes to say. I think that in the introduction and the first paragraph that speaks about security information, it says – it aims to serve as the basis for the legislative authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina in its future work through legislative initiatives to advance legal frameworks, etc., etc., I think that it should at least expect further. Well, I guess the executive authority and the police agencies and the structures they're dealing with should give the initiative and create legal regulations to change the situation. I guess it was meant to be in 2016. However, what I do especially, let me say, even worry, if you want to be honest, on page 5, where it is said to be important, according to SIPA, Border Police, Directorates, OSA, Federal, Republika Srpska Interior Ministry, District, in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2016, there were no terrorist attacks, and there were '15. Three. And the next paragraph says – 20 reports against 23 persons and two additions were filed in 2016, etc. due to the existence of grounds of suspicion that they committed crimes in the area of terrorism. I have to tell you, I'm extremely concerned about this. It's not a very small number of reports filed for such a serious crime. 20 reports against 23 people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are a very serious, very serious question, what is then on the agenda of security, or possible terrorism. Because here are the basic suspicions, so here's not the word that the police have come up with some operational knowledge, so she delivered, etc., etc. It would be, and now that we're talking about what foreign countries are saying, what America is saying, what someone else is saying, how threatened Bosnia and Herzegovina is or isn't threatened, we're often angry and we say it's made-up stuff, that it's not true, etc., but we don't respond to what someone filed those demands, or reports. Because if that's what they are, and they are, there's no reason why we shouldn't believe it, reports from police agencies that, I suppose, are quite thorough, professional, quality processing, delivered to competent prosecutors, which is what was done, so it's 2016 already. And it would be very interesting for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to say -- there was nothing, investigations were conducted, nothing was determined, they were, let's say, operational doubts or not, because we simply can't keep it in drawers, I guess, I guess, prosecutors, because it's said that police agencies did it. We in public de facto by not giving a timely answer create a climate of uncertainty, i.e. poor security within Bosnia and Herzegovina. And just the last remark, when we talk about the challenges then I think we should have said more specifically what are the challenges in Bosnia and Herzegovina besides these when we are talking, therefore, about internal challenges. Because you should be careful, we say that the challenges are, so one sentence stands – terrorist attacks can be expected everywhere. We can't do it that way, it seems to me, at least in my view, that we can figure it out, because it can at least be with the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also with all those who closely monitor and import into their software everything that we write and what's happening here in 17. So, I think, my proposal is that, first of all, we consider this information always, namely, to make an effort with those remarks that the Ministry has made here, why it has not received the necessary information from the competent authorities, and we know very well how to play whose role and in which, what the ministries at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina meet, but we need to do everything to get information like this for the first months so that we can tell what it is that we are going to do in the current year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3871	I thank my colleague Nović. The word has a distinguished delegate, Mr. Darko Babalj. Here you go, Mr. Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3872	Let me say hello. Okay, so as far as the information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the previous discussion of Mr. Nović and Mr. Karamatić is concerned, it's not so bad, and it's not just today, and it's not just the Minister of Security's fault why this wasn't in November 2017, it's January 2018. No one said, of course, Mr. Nović, but it was seen from the beginning of the discussion on what it was alluded to. What we need as the legislative authority of this country is to give support or deny support and get into all the problems of the system that are in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we all know what the problems of Bosnia and Herzegovina are about security issues. We know that the Minister of Security is neither Šerlok Holms nor he can solve the problems that the people would want these problems to be solved. I think from these drawers, what you were saying, Mr. Nović, should not be closed but should be opened, and they cannot be opened either by the Minister of Security or by the Ministry of Security. The ships are being opened by prosecutors, and there's something coming out of them that we have to meet at the time. Is that gonna be bad? I think it'll be very good for Bosnia and Herzegovina when those drawers open. As for terrorism, we call on terrorism. What do we call him? Well, let's get out of this terrorism. Are there any of these things people warn us about? Well, there is. Wherever I turn on television, the media, radio, written, unwritten, they're just talking about some kind of terrorism. It's like calling for terrorism. We should not mention it daily politically, but we should all get serious together so that it doesn't happen. As far as information is concerned, these are the summary reports. And as far as I'm concerned, I will support this information. As for the Minister of Security and his deputy, it would be correct to, well, a month later in that period at least next year, for 2017 in October, that is, November 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3873	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. The word has been proposed by the esteemed minister, Mr Dragan Mektić. Here you go, Mr. Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3874	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome the College of this House, to welcome all the delegates of the House of Nations here and to welcome the ministers, to welcome the deputies and to welcome everyone present here in this room. 18 My colleagues and colleagues I would only like, given that there were questions here and I see some misunderstandings, to answer only very briefly, first of all, why the information goes late. We have a problem, I'd like to ask you if you can help us here, not all the agencies are going to deliver the data, believe me, we've downloaded this information from the websites of certain agencies and these data are not compatible. If you want the number of rape crimes, if one agency didn't drop it or deliver that information, we can't give you the exact information, then I can write in the Information that according to the information provided by 15 agencies, but it's not 16th and this information that you have here most of this data we downloaded from websites, pages. They won't deliver us, and even in the House of Representatives there was a debate in that sense that we don't have to do this agency because we're not in charge of all the security business, and that's where the debate went. I would ask you to, I say once again, to determine whether we are going to be working on a common state of security agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we need data, and we need to have agencies that are doing other jobs that aren't responsible for this Ministry in order to make up one piece of information That please if you can help us, if you can't, we'll be in trouble again for every year because we can't get to the data. It's just that some people won't deliver to us and we don't have any way to force them into the whole story. In 2016, there were no terrorist attacks, it says in the Information, and it was reported that 20 reports were filed on the crimes committed, or 23 persons reported. This is about criminal acts from a group of acts related to terrorism, so there were no terrorist attacks in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2016, neither in 2017, here I am telling you now, but there was a return of our citizens from the battlefield, foreign wars, here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and after their return we were working them all. So, there's not a single person who came back from a foreign war that wasn't the subject of the processing of police agencies, and where we've documented, in the largest number, we've documented, there's a number still at work, we're reporting the work done that belongs to a group of acts in the field of terrorism. So, they were returning in 2016, we have the most likely information that a number of persons are about to return, our citizens, and this year in Bosnia and Herzegovina, will be covered by the same criminal treatment, reports of the crime committed and will be prosecuted in 2018, but in Bosnia and Herzegovina we have no terrorist acts, we have not had any serious terrorist incidents. We follow, we have the challenges of terrorists, we have the extremism, we have the radicalism, we have the person that we know they could do that, we keep them under control, we monitor them, but I'm still saying we can't rule out the possibility of a terrorist attack. You have now seen that, it seems to me, the State Department has issued a statement, a recommendation to its citizens not to visit some countries because of the threat of terrorism, but we are in a group with Germany, with France, with Belgium, with Great Britain, in the same group. So, as there is a threat in such a powerful, wealthy, that to fight terrorism separates billions and billions of marks and we're here, so now is it good or not. Okay, I agree that it needs to change and improve, I agree with Mr. Nović that these challenges should be, here, more precisely and better defined, but I'm telling you one more time, in the end, here you are and please, help us somehow commit someone to supply us with information if you want quality information. There won't even be one for 2017. We can't get the data. We're waiting for someone to publish on the website the data, which, I say again, is not compatible. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3875	Thank you, too. The word is in the form of a replica, although I don't see it, but well-respected delegate, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3876	Thank you. Well, here, these are, what the Honorable Minister has said with the best will to help him, this is terrifying. So, the Ministry of Security can't get a report from the police agencies, and it has to download data from the Internet to deliver a report to us, and now someone who's looking at this from the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina can only get to one conclusion, shut down the mixer, roll the cables, turn off the light and peel it off. I had a few concerns earlier, let's say to me, here's the important minister's report on the last State Department, but when some of the European Union's country's peddlers said that Bosnia and Herzegovina had a problem with terrorism, then it reacted, I don't know, and the Ministry and, specifically, it's about the presidents of the Republic of Croatia and the president of the Czech Republic, they all said – no, it's not true, it's against Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now that the State Department has said, Amerikanac, one of the two biggest, maybe three forces in the world, that we have a terrorist problem now everyone is silent. Then things were not clear to me either, for example, after a statement by the President of the Republic of Croatia that Bosnia and Herzegovina had a problem with terrorism, I was watching, I think he was the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić and the esteemed Minister of Security, Mr. Mektić, then said there were no terrorist attacks in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, we know in the term of office of this minister and this chairman of the Council of Ministers only in 2015 were three terrorist attacks. That means we're attributing them to not being able to find it on the Internet, because the Department of Security has no record of whether we have terrorist attacks or not. I think this data is fraternizing, that we all need to get involved, not just the Ministry of Security, but we here too, that police agencies have to cooperate as much as possible. If we already have some laws, some acts, if the Department of Security asks any police agency for information that they need to be delivered. If the House of People asks the Council of Ministers for any information that the Council of Ministers must provide the House with information. So, the question that's being asked to all of us here means it's not important at all, with this report here on security... it's already gone back years and years, as our esteemed colleague Babalj said, the question is whether we're going to try to make a country out of this Bosnia and Herzegovina, try to build a sovereign state in which the rules, in which the hierarchy, where there's a vertical, I don't know, from one police station to the Ministry of Security, to the Council of Ministers, or we're going to continue like this here as something we're acting and calling the OHR to intervene when we don't know what it is anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3877	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. He has a word, a correction to the wrong allegations, a distinguished delegate, Mr. Darko Babalj. Here you go, Mr. Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3878	I'm sorry to abuse it's not a replica, but I didn't know how to do it, it's my opinion that the biggest threat in Bosnia and Herzegovina, my personal opinion, is not terrorism. My opinion is that the biggest threat today in Bosnia and Herzegovina is heroin, cocaine, marijuana and speed, and my opinion is that as Bosnia and Herzegovina, we need to put a special accent on the fight against narcotics. There have been terrorism, and three of those cases have been, three, four innocent people have died, and what I'm talking about has killed tens of thousands of people, and that's not what we in Bosnia and Herzegovina are talking about. I think we're all serious people and we have children and we know that my child's highest threat is heroin, cocaine, speed, and marijuana. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3879	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3880	Thank you. Well, I can agree with my colleague Babalj in part, so it's scary stuff heroin, speed, cocaine, but I think we have to absolutely legalize it all so that we can buy on every bar and finely introduce excises, because if you didn't know about a kilo of cut tobacco, there are excises somewhere around 94 stamps and 80 fenings, and the manufacturer's price is about 8-9 marks. So in Herzegovina, we have cases where SIPA with drones is looking for tobacco growers, while dealers pass. Why? Well, because there's no excise on narcotics, there's no excise on heroin, there's no excise on cocaine, there's no excise on LSD, there's no Ecstasy, and the causative police agencies have no interest in catching drug dealers, but they're scaring the broads on Shiroki Brijeg, after the Upper Mamics, they're taking their tobacco, the SIPAs bring them in, they're taking those turtles, so they're actions, they're taking 5 kilos of tobacco, they're freaking out there by the poor grandmother. I'm for legalizing all kinds of narcotics and introducing excises, so believe it or not, we might finally make more than 100 meters of highways as much as we...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3881	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3882	I welcome you, I welcome the Minister of Security What my colleague said, I really don't have the possibility of a replica here, I have a correction of the wrong quote and so, I had to apply. I'd be sorry if the story went away that we weren't going to adopt something, here's the Hrvat klub, the problem is that you weren't at the sessions, so then we couldn't, we voted we couldn't discuss it because there's no proposing. And on the other hand, a little bit of your information that, as a security minister, you can't get information from the agencies of these states is more than scary. Then how can we help you? I don't know, there's really no way, because as much as we ask for a session of the promoters, they don't come, so here's how long we've known, since we've been waiting and the Minister of Security, I'd ask him again, how long, Minister, sorry, outside jobs, I'd ask him again, where did the law on foreign affairs come from. And then it occurred to me that when it comes to terrorism, in no way would I call upon it, we still have no information who carried out the attack on then Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vučić, is that right. The problem is, you just don't know who to cooperate with and who to coordinate with. Then after a terrorist attack in Rylovac, I remember well, you came back from Paris, there from their terrorist attack and you gave an interview, at the airport it was, and you said that the problem was that then the county, federal authorities, federal authorities, the state, didn't know who should be working in the field, and you said that in the next six months, exactly you, would make a law that would come to us on benches where we'd have a law on who and in what way reacts in the case of this kind of terrorism, who's in charge, because you're currently in law and you don't have it. Well, now a little bit scares me when you can't get from the agencies of our country... 21
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3883	Not the state.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3884	Any of you, you're still the Minister of Security, so you can't get it, and then to me it's a little bit, a little bit of fear.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3885	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. Discussion, distinguished delegate, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3886	I thank the chairman. I would first of all thank the Minister for the Information, which is made up of the usual methodology but accompanied by, I would say, a responsible and measured comment on an extremely important area and an extremely important issue, not only for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also for the region, and perhaps for the world. So, questions are treated that need to be really measured, responsible, reasoned and talked about separately, I would say. There was a rhetoric that often dealt with numbers that were undesigned, inappropriate, and which was about another intention rather than the treatment of security problems in this area. It harms everyone and it's not the way to talk about these topics. However, we all know that security is indivisible, that there can be no security in one country if it is not in the judicial state, that there can be no security in the region if in one of the countries in the region we have problems, that Europe cannot be safe and calm if even at its borders there are problems. And this sector of security and integrity of this problem involves and, of course, co-operation, exchange of information among the countries of the region, among the countries of Europe, and then, of course, exchange and co-operation particularly within the country. There cannot be security within the state unless there is co-operation and exchange of information and quite justifiably the minister here warned of the fact that the information is not being delivered. It's not the canton's disputed jurisdiction, it's the security entity, it's the constitutional position, I think we understand that, and we can agree. However, why is there no provision of information to the state ministry, which must again share this information on behalf of the state with other countries, in order to ensure this integrity of security is indivisible? The responsibility is also on us here, you know, so no one is defending us to pass laws and we have a foothold in the Constitution even to give jurisdiction to both the Ministry of Security and other security agencies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to prescribe in these laws both clear procedures and targeted methods and prescribed patterns and prescribed deadlines in which agencies at all levels must provide the Ministry with the necessary information and even to prescribe sanctions if that is not the case. We have the right not to enter the authority of the agencies in respect of their competences in the field of security, but to provide information at the level of the state, to collect this information, not for the reason that someone is deprived of jurisdiction, but to contribute more effectively and efficiently to security in the whole region, including in Europe. So, what I'm saying is that we need to think about such a law, and we are going to show, in relation to that law or such amendments to existing laws, whether we really want to contribute to making this area more efficient, better regulated, clearer and more precise required obligations. So without that so-called solution to this problem, we will still have a situation for the ministry to collect information on websites, which is really worrying. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3887	Thank you too, Mr. Genjac. He has the word as a proponent, a respected minister, Mr Dragan Mektić. Here you go, Mr. Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3888	Thank you, Chairman. I didn't know it was going to be after the discussion yet, and I'd wait and at the end of it all, so I apologize for picking up again. Uh, you'd answer this to Mrs. Džambas, I think, to the question of the Vučić. Let me once, I've said it a hundred times and made that statement in both the media and the public, we've processed the Vučić's case in Potocari, documented the subject in which we identified six people who saw more or less everyone on the cameras what they were doing, etc. and delivered it to the D.A.'s office. What more can we do? No, our story ends here. I'm surprised that someone constantly potentiates Vučić, Vučić, Vučić, and we processed, documented, sent a bunch of documentation to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, identified all persons, the prosecution won't finish..., won't answer, won't. So I was saying, I called the D.A.'s office to finish the investigation, say we've finished the investigation, there's no grounds for criminal proceedings, you finish the investigation, you charge one person, none, give anything to take off here, it burdens relations both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia, it constantly transfers someone from Serbia, you don't transfer here, you won't. We did everything the law allows us to do as police agencies. Another thing, Rajlovac and a terrorist act. I'm appointed minister, I think, on April 1, 2015, this terrorist act took place in May, and I wasn't even sat here with congratulations. And after those terrorist acts that happened in May, it was Zvornik, it was Rajlovac, the third was gone. That attack and that incident that happened with the Chief of Staff of Bosnia and Herzegovina The Cantonal Prosecutor's Office in Mostar did not qualify as a terrorist act, uh, terrorism but rather otherwise, and I can't requalify it now as what the prosecution, the one, brought. We can't bring it, you remember that I advocated it and tried to pass a law on the fight against terrorism, anti-terrorism law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no political agreement. Here, if you have a way, I have an anti-terrorist law, uh, here's anti-terrorist law, if there's any way to put it in a procedure, here's how you tell me and we have political consent. There's no political consent, I can't jump out of some policy they're negotiating, talking, establishing political... So I'm saying... that's all I had. And I don't know, I wouldn't explain this to cocaine, heroin, excises, and so on, be careful that it's something that kills on the spot, it's like taking cyanide and introducing excises on it and putting it into normal production, it's not any of the states in the world except marijuana. I mean, you wouldn't really comment on it, it's up to you if you don't want to, etc. Here, thank you, thank you, I'm having a chance to answer your questions now, I have no intention of doing anything wrong with you at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3889	I would like to thank my dear fellow minister, Mr. Secretary. The word has a distinguished colleague, delegate Zdenka Džambas. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3890	So this is really a correction to the wrong assumption. So, I didn't link the Vučić case to today's date at all, we're talking about 2016 there's a five-way, last period, 23 then it was said there wasn't enough coordination between the police, and that's what I'm talking about, and you said then you'd make the law to us, that we'd have it on the benches, but it's already past time to know when there's some kind of attack that's been declared a terrorist who's responsible, not to tie him to today's date. We forgot to talk about 2016 today.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3891	I thank Mrs. Džambas. If we've exhausted the debate, I'll conclude the same. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the Security Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 5 were for, 4 versus, 4 abstained. From the Federation – 4 for, against no one, 4 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, 4 against, there are no abstentions. There's a general majority but there's no entity majority, so we'll consult in the College. There's no consent, so we move on to a statement in the second round. [[/consultations in the College.]] Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 5 were for, 5 were against, 3 were abstained. From the Federation – 4 for, 1 against, 3 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, 4 against, there are no abstentions. There's no general majority. I find that the Security status information in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 has not been received. We're moving on to Dot 10, Ad. Ten. Information on foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Foreign Investment Promotion Agency material in BiH – FIPA, issue: 01,02-22-2546/17, of 26.10.2017 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission has accepted the information. The Commission adopted the following conclusions and proposes to adopt them to the House: 1. The people's home is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to allocate funds to the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of the "Invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina" campaign. 2. The people's home is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to try to provide funds to encourage foreign investors. I give my word to a representative of the Joint Commission at a session of the House of Peoples, if he wishes. Who's the representative, I'm sorry, I didn't get any information about that? _________(?) 24 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3894	Ladies and gentlemen of the presidency, gentlemen of the Parliament and gentlemen of the Ministers and Deputys, I have a pleasant duty to inform you that in 2017 it is recordable for investments in the history of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In making the information ahead of you FIPA has had all the data, but official data from the Central Bank of BiH that collects all payments and controls the inflow of funds, so in this Information you received data that the increase in foreign investment in 2017 was 28.7% in the first collar. However, we had a 68% increase in the first six months, in order to meet the plan in nine months, and that is confirmed by the Central Bank of BiH, we have 630 million KM for the first nine months, and according to new data from the Central Bank, we are already at 700 million. At this pace, we expect to reach Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget by the end of the year, in these three months still to be processed. We know that the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions is around 950 million, we expect to have the same number of foreign investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must inform you that FIPA has another investment that has not entered this data, which will only give great figures this year, it is the Kamengrad Termo Power Plant, which was signed in Budapest on November 27th. The investment is 1,020,000,000 marks, and the sums will only be shown in the investments in 2018, 2019 and the following years. All these investments were made, in a boxing dictionary, at points. We don't have a single investment of 200, 300, 500 million, all small investments of 5, 10, 15 million, they have, there are several and a half 30, so it's a difficult order, by taking investors to five locations, by choosing, by maintaining if it takes ten meetings with investors to make some investment real. About 7,200 potential investors we keep in touch, inform them about all the new projects we have, try to collect projects from all the entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and from entity authorities, cantonal, municipal, and also private projects for which we can find foreign investors. Our work is also recognized in the world, for the first time in Bosnia and Herzegovina's history FIPA has entered the Management Board of Foreign Investment Organisations, the World Organisation of Foreign Investments WAIPA. There are only two places from Europe, and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Poland have entered, which is indeed an extraordinary success and we expect even better opportunities for contacts with foreign investors in this and next year. You have seen the proposal, we want further, even more successful, we need to be present in the world, to know about Bosnia and Herzegovina's investment opportunities. I introduced some of our ministers to the FIPA director of Macedonia, who gave a commercial at CNN in 2013, cost a million dollars, but the Makedonac made an investment in 2014. The ad is very important here and I urge you to somehow raise some money for our propaganda campaign "Invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina". I'll illustrate to you, last year we had an action in Italy that was so-called. "outreach" campaign, the World Bank prepared everything for us, and when I came to potential investors who should invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina's agriculture, the first question was – and can you walk freely on your streets? And I really got involved and I told them – gentlemen where you live, in Bosnia and Herzegovina the war ended 25 years ago and you are more free to walk in Sarajevo, Mostar, Banja Luka than in Berlin, Paris and London. So, we need to spread the truth about Bosnia and Herzegovina, that 25 live here freely, that it can work freely, that most investors who work here are very successful, that about 60% reinvest them, and all of this has to go into the world, and without money it's hard to publish ads on any major media. Also, as far as incentives are concerned, I think it is my associates' opinion that Bosnia and Herzegovina should take steps on the incentive plan. You have seen what Serbia is doing, Serbia is giving for every new job, a new job of 7,000 euros, and how I can convince the investor to stay with us, to come to us rather than to Serbia. He says -- I get 7,000 euros for every job, and he goes there. So we're really struggling for the investor to come to us, not Serbia. Croatia gives 3,000 euros, Macedonia about 3,000 euros, Montenegro has extraordinary millions of incentives in various areas. So we should think about being at least symbolically giving some sums to investors. The other day I was at a meeting in the municipality of Stanari, who decided to give 650 marks for each new job. I had a case in the window, when we went to the opening of the assembly house factory, the municipality offered 600 marks for each newly opened job to the investor. So, you should think of a way to fit in with the trends in the world, stimulate foreign investors, and try to do something about it. And what else we have to do, the Council of Ministers adopted 52 recommendations from FIPA this year and in 2017 to improve the business environment. I would like to point out to you that we get a building permit in 193 days on average, while in Serbia it is in six days. We all have to make every effort here and all the authorities to do everything they can to cut all deadlines, make it possible for investors to do everything, and FIPA will try, as so far, to eliminate all obstacles and speed up as fast as possible. So much for now.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3895	Thank you, Mr. Director. So before any other delegates were involved, I would have made an elemental remark here on the material itself. Out of the nine pages this report has, page 6 obviously by technical error wasn't copied here so if it's with all the delegates so, maybe there's some space to correct it in the meantime, or it didn't come from FIPA..., I'm not going in, it'll determine the technical services. Since the promoter has completed his address, we are moving on to the discussion. The word has a distinguished delegate, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3896	Thank you. Well, listening to this opening statement, we're about to have historical results, so there's nothing to fix. Secondly, I did not imagine that information in the area of foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina is talking about numbers, but about problems, how to improve the situation, because I think we do not have historical results. I don't think we're very good at this, and I think we should speak in a way that we can see how to improve, which is the role of the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments, which are the effects of foreign investment, how busy it is with these foreign investments, etc., etc. 26 We have received one information with one mass of data which are really just data and nothing more, er, not even brought to an end in a methodological sense that they can, that they can be treated as reliable data. So on page 2, he says – the direct side of the investment in '16. The year was 536 million KM, according to the Central Bank, then said on page 3. – in 2008 the inflow of foreign direct investment was 1.3 billion. So it's already this '17. It can't possibly be a historical year. In 2014, foreign investments amounted to 811 million. We received an act that says – the notification of the record growth of foreign direct investment by nine months, where it is, says that by nine months it is 630 million and that this is a 60% increase compared to the previous year. Now, look, in nine months you have 630 million '17. Year, and in '16. You have 536 million a year, the data is from the same source. Now, 630 million is a 60% increase already from 536 million. So here you're thinking about nine months, over here a year, but as it's already been calculated that 630 million increases are 60% compared to 536 million. Furthermore, on the last page, page 9, the data from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and registered foreign direct investment is said to be in '16. 263 million were registered according to the Central Bank for the past year, and 263 million were registered according to data from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. It wouldn't be a problem if it wasn't for double the amount, you know. Now, it is explained, though, that the Ministry of Foreign Trade of Barata with data where the level of investment based on registrations for the current period, since most companies reregister after the end of the investment cycle, and when registering new companies, basic capital of 1,000 marks is registered as initial, etc. So, at least this should be clarified – what is more specific, which is more secure, whether of 230 million or 560 million in the last year, where these investments are. This Information should structure these investments, the results of these investments, the effect of investments in terms of employment, etc. And the second thing, this 60% increase that is, let's say it's slow, but if, let's say it exists, how did this agency contribute to having this 60% increase, what activities, so maybe we take these activities as a sample for next year and for next year. What the Agency has done is that we have a 60% increase, which is activities, which are these successful procedures, so maybe we take it as some kind of pattern and maybe further attract foreign investment, or maybe it's some result of some spontaneous processes, this, which are opportunities to invest in ownership structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., so either it's the result of the Agency for Promotion of Foreign Investments, or it's some spontaneous process. From this information we don't see what it is, we don't see, so we don't see what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3897	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3898	...now awkward, because the director is behind my back.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3899	Just you speak to the chairman, don't worry.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3900	I just listened to my colleague and I wouldn't repeat these parts at all. I'm a member of this committee and we are, it's the Committee for Economic Development, you know we don't have a lot of sessions but they're exhausting, they last three-and-a-half hours, so you just can't listen very carefully to 27 of what's going on on on that commission. And this is exactly the information that we just heard, except it was politically colored at the time, so I warned the gentleman not to do politics... when it represented someone, any agency. And there was this story, which makes it say that we adopted this conclusion in that commission, that it was either the House of Peoples that asked the Council of Ministers to allocate funds to the Agency for the purpose of carrying out the campaign. And I agree that this agency is not the only one who deserves it if there has been an increase in investment, all of us are either responsible or not responsible for having no more of these investments than security, adoption of budgets, laws and other things, all of which is the investment of foreign investors. And if this one, I guess all the directors of the agencies, so here, if we want the ministers, they all came to that place through some political party. This material is great to me to put on party bodies, it would go very well, but this is the House of Peoples. And I except for these figures that someone cited, as Mr. Genjac said, I, as an envoy of the Hrvat in this House, asked a little bit about what such hard work was, as the director said, that it was a terrible hard work, and I asked around and came up with the following data. In the 2017 budget, the funds were intended for employment, regular employment, and then I watched what. In that agency for 28 people, they have the right to have 30 people, of which 26 + 2, two are some contracts, in the leading place is a gentleman, there is a deputy, a woman, a deputy who recently came here, I'm not sure, and we should see otherwise by the agencies what the rights of a deputy director, whether the deputy sits really behind any director, any deputy, or ministers. We still have the option, and that's how it should be, three assistants, and the number three assistants are not given for nothing, we know that there are three assistants, referring to... BiH, if it were Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat, we understand each other, is that, there are no these assistants, there is only one and he's in line S, these two don't exist. Take that, for example. We don't have a sector to support investors, we don't have that assistant, and that's why this work is hard when a man has to work alone. We have six department heads, none of them Hrvat. Of these 28 employees in this way we have meanings except for the deputies, which is by the Constitution and by the laws, we have two employees of the Hrvat. I, as a representative of the Croatian people in one institution state with this in no way can be satisfied. If funds were given and were in the employment budget, i.e. for setting up at least the assistants, they had to be used for this rather than for contracts on the work. And yet, so, as director, I choose who I choose by contract of action. Therefore, I am not satisfied, this money absolutely, what we have brought, voted, we are always at the limit of the quorum in this Committee, so it is not about the means that should be provided by the Council of Ministers to be transferred, but that there are funds that Bosnia and Herzegovina will in all areas, from tourism to not knowing what, promote in the world, that this is under the control of the Council of Ministers. It can't possibly be in an agency. I, here, will immediately mention the case that we recently had, the trials of a former Federation minister who used funds transferred to promote let's buy our own home, he, glued his picture and his symbol to the party, and so with six thousand no problem, spent his campaign. It can't be like that. So if the promotion of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means investment, and tourism, and everything else, it has to be on the Council of Ministers, they have to agree and how... Bosnia and Herzegovina, not a single agency. Then all the agencies will look for it. So I didn't understand this that the funds were transferred directly to the Agency, but that within the framework, it would make sure that the Council of Ministers had the means to advertise. I am aware that the Republic of Croatia, for example, paid big money to CCN for its tourism, so it went well. But to be done by someone, just a directorate, one that I am absolutely not satisfied with by this national composition, there's no way. We also talked about this, how to ensure that the House of Peoples asks the Council of Ministers to try, so it says here – to provide incentives. Of course we'd all like that, but the Council of Ministers can do that, I don't know, it's all on entity and lower levels. 28 Therefore,..., so you have the right to 30, you have employed 26 + 2 per contract, an absolute disproportionateness in one state agency where they work other than the deputy minister, means only two employees of Croatian nationality. And as an envoy, here I will propose a conclusion, so – that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments to coordinate the national structure of employees. First of all, to choose these mandatory assistants, so that the director himself doesn't have to do this hard, as he said, work, and especially there from six that none of the Hrvat are really okay. Being the director is nice, the party puts it there, each, but a little scheme needs to be taken, so see what the situation is when it comes, so the national structure must be looked at at the level of the state, so it is tried to correct it during its term of office. I'm not saying, I don't know what it's like in the other one, but I'm going as an emissary always to every agency that's here... I'm going to look and explore the national structure. I'm not defending the Bošnjak, the natural and the Srbin klub to work on other agencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3901	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Ognjen Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3902	Thank you, Mr. Softić. The reason I'm picking up is that an esteemed colleague, Halid Genjac, has given a really good, extremely appropriate and encouraging creamworth for this whole situation. And it's time to say what needs to be said. So, first of all, we're going to compare the materials, this is the thickness of the materials that apply to how we budget, we're doing, how we spend it, the report is there, etc. ... the very extent of the material, I guess, is clear what kind of internal financial and business relationship it is, because this all money must come from the taxpayers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as far as it is relevant, how much of this matter is alive. This is a material that, beware not for 2016, but here mentions data from 1994 on here, talks about these direct or whatever foreign investments, watch out for foreign investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now, so this is talking about foreign investment, this is only talking about one year, not 20 years and some years like this, but just one year that's about us and our work here. If you were to try to do this now, how in statistics does that scale effect on the internal life in Bosnia and Herzegovina between strangers and us for just one year I think these rocks would be not the other way around, but incredibly the other way around, and we're always saying we're being asked by strangers, we need us, like this, us, like that, etc. Okay, these are some political circumstances that talk about our abilities and that talk about how interested someone else is that we work here, we live better, to join the economic community with our environment. However, when it comes to the report itself, is something incorrect in this report? Apparently not, no one has denied any information. Is he methodologically correct? Well, he's part of that methodology, maybe he's not total, not talking about these problems that exist, etc., etc., but he may be the most expression of a positive spirit that the director of that agency wants to establish in and out of the Agency. And then he chose to say -- let me write you what's good, let me raise enthusiasm, let me tell you that the last year is better than the previous one, which means that the trend can be positive, let me tell you that there are some little maybe elemental things, about 30 seconds, 40 seconds in the world's most watched TV program that can give 29 positive light to us, to change the picture of us. I can't disagree with him, because, as you said, you and the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Montenegro, so everyone did it and it gave positive effects. What I resent is that we all see that there is a serious lack of systematicity in work here. So, there's hardly anything that can work if everything and one man who's in that system doesn't know exactly what his obligation is in the morning when he wakes up and goes to work, if he has to wait for some political circumstance or the will of someone, or the mood of the director, or the deputy, or whoever,... the official who's going to tell him -- well, today we're going to do this. But it's an inherited condition, an inherited condition from the time the agency served to promote individuals and their business ideas. And now it needs to be changed. And I don't see the director making it impossible for us to change it, on the contrary, he says – I can do what I can as director under my jurisdiction I will do. There's a big difference between him and the predecessor of the minister of security, so there's a big difference between us. ... Director really behaves as director and says – people, which is my authority I give, he doesn't say – you need to change the law, you need this, you need what, he told us what can be done about his duties. If it wasn't for this speech for the defense of the director, because that's not the point, nor am I doing it because someone said to him that he came as a proposal for this party or that party, be careful everyone's here on the basis of this or that party's proposal, but I'm saying because somehow it's in the interest, and I think we can view it as a general interest, it seems to me that we're not going to try anything today, of course, to try and sort out that we're actually asking ourselves the basic thing, and that's who decides about foreign investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am telling you that we do not decide that there is not a single man in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the director, who has an impact on how they are deployed, conditionally deployed, these foreign investments in our... What precedes Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Croatia ends, people, with us, because we are political.... beings who create a picture of ourselves that we are an eternally quarreled society,... conflicts, prone to all possible forms of crime, with the inability to function of the system, with no respect for our own rules from the Constitution to, I don't know what, with such foreign investments, uh, interventions, that we don't actually manage anything, so there's nothing to agree with us. Now, that director can't solve it, that director can try to reverse the subject, so when a Belgijanac comes and asks a similar thing, you see he can directly answer that there's no war and guarantee there's no war, that's the maximum of his responsibility and his ability to create a better picture of the country himself. So it's just like that. Not thanking the report, therefore, nor the director, but trying to draw attention to one important issue, and that is that we ourselves must create a position thanks to which we wonder when foreign investments are moving in the Balkans. Perhaps the only position the Agency can... choose will be precisely... and now we return to that proposal, that in that marketing sense, semi-commercial to suggest what others have done to improve the image of their political and economic space. And he did it. This report certainly won't be for the next few years because, as far as I can see, it was an ambition to cover it all the years back to be fatter, but unfortunately it didn't make room for us to give any concrete suggestions except for this, for which we are grateful, for the conclusion, for each of us, of course, that there is no improvement here on that plan until we begin to manage this country ourselves. Thank you. There is no debate and I conclude. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on Information on the situation in the area of foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Run the plea. 30 Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 2 were in favour, 5 were against, 6 delegates were detained. From the Federation – no one for, 3 against, 5 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. There's no general majority. I find that Information in the area of foreign direct investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been received. We are now voting on the conclusions of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 4 were in favour, 6 were against, 3 were abstained. From the Federation – 2 for, 3 against, 3 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, 3 against, there are no abstentions. There's no general majority. I find that the conclusions of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development have not been adopted. We are now declaring ourselves on the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished delegate, Mrs Zdenka Džambas, I will repeat, which reads – the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the FIPA Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments to coordinate the national structure of employees. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 8 were for, 2 were against, 3 were abstained. From the Federation – 4 for, 1 against, 3 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 4 for, 1 against, there are no abstentions. There's a general majority there's an entity majority. I find that Mrs. Zdenka Džambas' proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. Now we're going to work on point 11, Ad. 11. Information on the presentation held on the subject: "The current state of affairs in fulfilling Bosnia and Herzegovina's obligations under the Energy Community Treaty", Sarajevo, 26.10.2017, delivered by the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications to the People's House, issue: 01.02-05-1-2454/17, of 02.11.2017 You have received information on a presentation on the topic "The current state of affairs in fulfilling Bosnia and Herzegovina's obligations under the Energy Community Treaty", Sarajevo, 26.10.2017, submitted by the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications to the People's House. I give my word to Mr Sead Kadić, the first Deputy Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications if he wishes. He does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3904	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3905	Just a moment while it allows you to use the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3906	No microphone 31
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3907	You'll have to wait, I'm sorry, the red signal light will be here for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3908	Namely, 26.10.2017 in the... House of Peoples held this presentation "The current state of affairs in meeting Bosnia and Herzegovina's obligations under the Energy Community Treaty". There were some colleagues, I think Mr. Raguž was from the House of Peoples present, and more colleagues from the House of Representatives. In the same session, in fact, at the presentation, as Mr Šarović said, there were constant shortcomings and obligations ahead of Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to lift the sanctions in the membership of the Energy Community. And this question, as far as we're concerned, here I am now hearing some questions that become a priority, and in fact they are not a priority, in my opinion, so that's my opinion, the priority should be these issues dealing with the life and some kind of progress of this country, and surely joining the Energy Community, are some moments that will bring this country closer to the European Union. For this reason, I answered, you heard Mr. Šarović, who in the short few words answered my question about the Energy Community and said that he would provide me and the Commission with a slightly wider answer on this issue, and we all know what it means to be a member of the Energy Community, in which we are in this situation today. I want to say that I am for today's session, so as a delegate in the House of Peoples lets us, and the MP, decide that, as this information would make any sense, that it would not just go into the sense of getting information, we accept it, and by the time we go down there, we forget what we have accepted, to adopt one conclusion that, perhaps, this whole situation about this issue, I don't think there's a man here who doesn't agree that we should go in that direction, we'll adopt some conclusions that would be held in some way, under the supposed signs, in life of this topic, and not to remember it again when a digger or some, an official from Europe comes before the end of this year, may not be welcome, because then, this, just and the choices to happen, this. So, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to read this conclusion that I've prepared or I'd like to share it for the services to copy.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3909	Are you reading the conclusion on behalf of the Commission or on your own behalf?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3910	In my name.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3911	Well, then you'll have to wait for a hearing over a procedure that exists.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3912	It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3913	Thank you very much. The final presentation is in the capacity of the promoter, Mr Sead Kadić, First Deputy Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications of the People's House. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has a distinguished delegate, Mr. Sead Kadić. Here you go, Mr. Kadić. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3914	I'm thanking you. So, let me just get on with it. So I suggest the conclusion: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House calls on institutions at all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina to, in accordance with constitutional and legal competences in the fields of energy, energy, immediately undertake all necessary activities to meet the obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina stemming from the Treaty establishing the Energy Community, especially those relating to the taking over of the Third Energy Package. 2. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH calls on the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to submit, within the shortest possible time, to the parliamentary clumsiness of BiH, to adopt the legislative proposals necessary to meet the commitments regarding the takeover of the Third Energy Package, i.e. the regulation of the gas and electricity markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3915	Thank you, Mr. Kadić. There are no other applications for participation in the debate, so I'm closing the debate accordingly. First, we vote on Information on a presentation on the subject: "The current state of affairs in fulfilling Bosnia and Herzegovina's obligations under the Energy Community Treaty", Sarajevo, 26.10.2017. Please initiate the vote. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present, 13 were for, against no one with abstentions. From the Federation – 8 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone, from the Republic of Serbia – 5 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I note that the information on the presentation held on the subject: "The current state of affairs in fulfilling Bosnia and Herzegovina's obligations under the Energy Community Treaty", Sarajevo, 26.10.2017 has been adopted into knowledge. We are now voting on the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished delegate, Mr Sead Kadić. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 11 were for, against no one, 2 were abstentions. From the Federation – 8 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone, from the Republic of Serbia – 3 for, against no one, 2 abstentions. There's a general majority there's an entity majority. I understand that we have adopted the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished delegate, Mr Sead Kadić. Now we move to point 12. Ad. 12. Commission Report to the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on ratification of the Status and Functions Agreement of the International Commission for Missing Persons, No 01,02-05-2-1055/17, of 20.04.2017 At the 31st session of the House of People, held on 19.07.2017, we discussed the Status and Functions Agreement of the International Commission for Missing Persons. When voting and giving 33 consent to ratifying the said Agreement, the entity majority was not reached, and the House College agreed as a commission. You have received a report from the College of the House of the Peoples. Members of the House of People's College as a commission failed to reach agreement on the ratification of the Status Agreement and the functioning of the International Commission for Missing Persons. In accordance with Article 75(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House, we vote on granting consent to ratify the Status and Function Agreement of the International Commission for Missing Persons, noting that this item of the agenda is not under discussion. That's how you start the vote. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 7 were for, 5 was against, 1 was abstentioned. From the Federation – 7 for, against no one, one abstention, from Republika Srpska – there is no one for, 5 against, abstentions. There's a general majority, but there's no entity. Given that it is the second round of voting, I agree that we did not agree to ratify the Status Agreement and the functioning of the International Commission for Missing Persons. Dear colleagues and colleagues on the agenda remain to be agreed on for ratification of agreements and contracts. I propose that, in accordance with our practice, we bring together the debate and the statement on points 13 to 21, including item 21, agenda. I'm opening a debate on this. The word has a respected delegate, Mr Nebojša Radmanović. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3917	Mr. Chairman of this proposal is only valid if we all agree on all points of the agenda, since there are different opinions I suggest that point 14. We should single out and vote in the package for the other eight agreements. After the plea, I can explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3918	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. So far, the practice has been like this, that once the College finds out that it will establish this practice at each of the sessions, club sessions will be held, and if there is no intervention at the clubs themselves that would require that any of these points be excluded from this usual procedure, then we should propose all of this. At our session of the Serbian People's Club, at least I understood so, we agreed to support all these agreements, so that because of this, and not because of the effort to give someone, God Bog the right to plead otherwise, no other procedure has been proposed. I understand your proposal, he's completely legitimate, you have the right to plead otherwise, it's a matter of objective practice, everything else would be to deny your delegate's right or someone else from the delegates, and I don't think the College has a problem with adopting this proposal. Then I will modify the proposal made by the College regarding the procedure relating to these agenda points, and then the proposal will read as follows, just a moment to determine exactly what point of the agenda, then the proposal is like this - we propose to bring together the debate and the statement on points 13 to 21, including point 21, of the agenda, but including item 14 of the agenda. 34 Do you agree with that? You agree. Thank you. If there are no further requests for participation in the discussion on this subject, I am putting this proposal to a vote. Let's get this procedure started. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 12 were for, 1 was against, no abstentions. From the Federation – 7 for, 1 against, there are no abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 5 for, there are no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. We're moving on to our work. Ad. 13,15,16,17,18,19,20,21. Giving consent to ratification of agreements and contracts I am opening a debate on the proposed agreements from points 13 to 21, including 21, including 14. Is anyone answering for a word? There is no application for participation in the discussion. If that's how it is, I'm closing the argument. We move to a declaration of consent for the ratification of the agreement and of the contracts referred to in points 13 to 21, including a point of the 21st agenda, but excluding a point of the 14th agenda. Run the voting procedure. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present -- for 13 delegates, there were no delegates against them, there were no abstentions either. From the Federation – 8 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska – 5 for, abstentioned and against. There is a general and entity majority I find that we have agreed on the proposed agreements from point 13 to point 21, including item 21 of the agenda, but excluding point 14. Now we're going to work on item 14, you're picking up Mr. Babalj, an injury? No, okay. Can we go on? We can. Now we're going to work on item 14 of the agenda, that's Ad. 14. Agreement on the financing of the 2016 State Programme of Activities for Bosnia and Herzegovina between the European Union, which is represented by the European Commission and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the Directorate for European Integration of the Council of Ministers, issue: 01.02-05-2-2852/17, of 08.12.2017
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3921	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3922	Okay, thanks. I'm opening a debate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Excuse me, the word has a distinguished delegate, Mr Nebojša Radmanović. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3924	Mr. Chairman, I am obliged to explain why I asked for this. As you know, all agreements go through a series of authorities before adoption, so are the entity governments. When it comes to this agreement, the Republika Srpska government has found a number of irregularities and therefore it is proposed that it, not to be given consent to ratification. Although this view of the government was well - known and some other authorities apparently were not strong enough so it came all the way to us. But my proposal today is not to give consent to the ratification of this Agreement, which is why I acted at the beginning and suggested how this should be set aside, so as not to vote against all agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3925	Thank you. The word is Mr. Ognjen Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3926	I thank you, Mr. Deputy Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So, as I said, I'm now saying this as a delegate who has the right to plead or not to declare these things, of course, we were at a session of the Serbian People's Club considering this point in a way that did not contain this kind of information, or arguments. And accordingly, I would therefore, since we now have one specific situation and I have no other way than from this place so as not to seek a break and thus delay the work of the entire House, so on behalf of the College, I would suggest that there be a delay in the statement on this agenda point at all until we all get an insight into this information that Mr. Radmanović is talking about, if they are argued. So if you don't have a problem with that, so I'm saying this as a delegate I don't have a right to in the name of the College, because it's still a specific situation, our club delegate somehow produced this situation. 36 So, then we'll make it clear that we're postponing this item of the agenda without closing the debate until the next session. Who's up for this?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3927	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3928	On behalf of the Club of Bosniaks, the chairman of the Club, Mr Halid Genjac wants a part of this conclusion to be that and to invite the Director of the Directorate to this session so that any debate on these issues can be held more contentlessly for any ambiguity. Did I interpret Mr. Genjac well?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3929	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-25-0.u3930	Thank you. We're running a plea. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 were for, against no one, abstentioned. From the Federation – 8 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska – 5 for, against no one, abstentioned anyone. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. With this, we have exhausted the work on this agenda of this session at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and have automatically launched a procedure for proposing amendments that are scheduled to take place from one hour to continue the session. At the same time, of course, it will be desirable, for the sake of economic efficiency and efficiency, that if conditions arise earlier, let's say by one hour, that the second session is held, to inform us of this by the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, and we will inform everyone else. . Thank you. Session completed at 12:20 p.m.
