ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4367	I suggest we get started. Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you and open the 41st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The meeting invited our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the judiciary, the Central Election Commission and the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution, the BiH Appeal Office, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and representatives of international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly monitor the work of our House. The session is attended by 15 delegates, of whom 5 from Bosniak, 5 from Croatian and 5 from the Serbian people. As you are indicated in the invitation to this session and in accordance with Article 155. Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, delegates will be allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that along with the invitation to the 41st session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 41st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Rule 156 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, delegate Ljilja Zovko for BiH Defence Minister Marina Pendeš, delegate Zdenka Džambas for BiH Prime Minister Denis Zvizdić, delegate Mario Karamatić for BiH Prime Minister Denis Zvizdić, delegate Martin Raguž for BiH Security Minister Dragan Mektić, submitted the announcement to the delegation to the delegation. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this announcement, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the member of the BiH Council of Ministers have been delivered to the Council of Ministers. I would like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public Television Service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now it can begin to ask oral delegate questions and give answers. I give the word to the delegate to Ljilji Zovko. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4368	Thank you very much, President. I'd like to welcome everyone present. My question concerns the behaviour of BiH's defence ministry employee, Senad Talović. The BiH Defence Ministry employee used hate speech on his public facebook profile. I'm interested, in this case, in the Ministry of Defense, and all other institutions, what are the procedures and intentions, here, in this case, the Ministry of Defence or the Minister? Are there rules and how will this case end? This is a very important issue throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, I use the opportunity to always say that I give up hate speech and condemn every hate speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4369	Thank you very much. ministrica Pendeš is not present. There's the secretary of the ministry. He's willing to give an answer, if that pleases you, Mrs. Zovko. LLYLIA
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4370	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4371	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4372	I thank the chairman. Honored members, distinguished members of the House of Peoples. Without a claim to elaborate the correlation between the use of public words and social networks, especially in the context of the use of a dictionary that is inappropriate, the Ministry of Defence has defined the Ethics Code for the conduct of members of the Armed Forces. In particular, a person identified by Mrs. Zovko is not a member of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces, so there is no such thing as the Defence Ministry base, nor the Armed Forces of persons named Senad Talović. What was checked through a professional base was found a person with the same name and last name retired under the Federation government regulation in early 2007. Therefore, the Ministry of Defence has no responsibility or jurisdiction to take any action towards those persons who are no longer within the framework of the defence system, and I have already said that we are working through the Ethics Code to settle this issue which certainly deserves the attention and higher levels of government when it comes to using words on social networks that represent an opinion polygon and a information exchange polygon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4373	Thank you. Is the delegate, Mrs. Zovko, satisfied with the answer she received? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4374	Thank you very much. 3 Well, this is, here, in this case it doesn't matter whether he's a member or not of the Armed Forces, but, look, I had information that he did. I am very interested in having all the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina defined by the Regulation that civil servants know that, like all of us, we cannot be held accountable to the expressed, especially in public, today so much is present that... Here, I'm satisfied with the answer, but I'd like, uh, in the rule book, when you regulate it to let me know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4375	Thank you very much. I give my word to delegate Zdenka Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4376	I join the greetings. I didn't get an answer, I referred to the Council of Ministers, because I don't know exactly who. My question referred to the rules under which it is laid down, that is to say, the issue of a national plea here in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, when we declare ourselves Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, ostali. It is also related now to these frauds that occur or have already happened, which relate to the declaration of us who, or all the people who want to go to the elections, have had to make a statement and there is a statement there, as it seems, that morning a certain person. And since I had the opportunity to see this kind of fraud that clearly goes with the aim of filling the House of the Federation, I am interested in what regulations are these if we already have a 2013 census, who and how can check what is being written in 2013, it's the only free statement I have when it's a national issue? Is there any way of verifying what someone is wondering, when, because this is indeed one abuse of a national plea? And that's why I don't know, I don't have an answer, I'll wait for an answer. I'm curious about the regulations that, for example, why can the Central Election Commission check out the last time anyone's written? In all normal countries from list to list, therefore, for ten years you cannot make an amendment to the national declaration. I don't know what regulation it is, I don't know how to find it, you can do it when it suits you, so you can do it here in BiH institutions, and then you can see that the man signed up for example is a Hrvat, but that his name is Nikola, of course, at a time when Nikoljdan is in Orthodox, when he is, but so he hires him for example. in FIPA man and so man does, the Hrvat writes, takes the place of Hrvat, and of course, he has no idea about it, only the moment the employment is written what it is by nationality, and now this is happening in the Federation regarding a plea for the Federation House of the Peoples where Bošnjak plead as Hrvat.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4377	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić, has writtenly justified the absence from today's session, so we will leave your question for the next session. The word has Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 4 Here, the chairman of the Council of Ministers is not there, I hope that someone will pass on, so that I will get an answer to the question which is precise: the basis of which law, which by which decision and for what reason has the BiH Immaculate Taxation Authority imposed or approved the payment of an export customs terminal only and exclusively at the Bijač border crossings near Ljubusko and Gorica near Gruda, which imposes unnecessary costs on exporters and road hauliers of cargo in western Herzegovina, and has made it uncompetitive compared to other exporters and road hauliers in Bosnia and Herzegovina? I am also interested, if such a decision exists when and where it is discussed, either by the Directorate for Direct Taxation or by the Council of Ministers of BiH, and in which official messenger has it been published? If not, I ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers to charge, in co-operation with the Department of Direct Taxation, the answers on which the owners, i.e. the users of the Biac and Gorica customs terminals, to exporters and road hauliers of the cargo, on the occasion of exportation, and whether the Council of Ministers will take measures if it is determined that the fees charged by the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina are exclusively for two Herzegovina transports, i.e. Bijača and Gorica, and they have no basis in positive legal or sub-legal acts. Just to be clear, in contact with the businessmen, I have learned the amazing fact that only those two border crossings have been charged for years for the exit from Bosnia and Herzegovina in the amount of 40 marks and for the transport of an empty vehicle of 5 marks. This may not seem much, but it is clear that you have a comparison, if for example, at the Gorica customs crossing in Gruds, the sand truck is exported to Imotski where it is being built, that sand truck costs 180 marks and the car carrier from Herzegovina has to pay 40 marks of the customs terminal and has to pay 5 marks when returning what we get to the incredible price, means the kinky customs, the perverse remaining fees that pay, that it pays 25% of the value of the total cargo just to cross the border. At 600 truck factions that, in a year, he paid for the transport of Gorica with incredible 24,000 marks. In six, seven years, 170,000 marks and precisely because of his incompetence, he lost a job of 650 trucks a year exporting a fraction of stone to Makarska because he simply couldn't calculate it into the price and was uncompetitive. I'm going to ask the technical services to give the chairman of the Council of Ministers and in writing, so there is precision as to what I asked and I hope, except for this question that I will get an answer to some previous questions which I have asked to the respected Council of Ministers Chairman, for example, there has been more than half a year since I asked the question to be asked in writing which are due to the staff that Bosnia and Herzegovina...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4379	Time, Mr. Karamatić. Mario
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4380	paid for the training and education, I use time to answer the question, which Bosnia and Herzegovina paid for the training, what are the staff and what are the benefits for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I never got the answer. Perhaps the Honorable chairman of the Council of Ministers thinks I was thinking of him, but I didn't, he was paid by Canton Sarajevo. I'm interested in who Bosnia and Herzegovina paid for the master's work, the doctor's work, and I'd really like to get it in writing, to see which supermen are so valuable to Bosnia and Herzegovina that we pay for their schooling, because most of them, here, the people in this room paid for their own school. Thank you very much. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4381	Thank you. I give my word to the delegate Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4382	Thank you, Mr. President. A warm greeting to all present. My question was announced to the Minister of Security, Mr. Mektić, but I don't see him here today, I don't see any other people, deputy from the Ministry of Security, but since we have today scheduled the 11th point of the agenda – a report on the urgent measures taken when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina's ability to deal with the consequences of the refugee crisis, I will repeat my question for the public here, and it was directly: what are the current, and what long-term security consequences for Bosnia and Herzegovina thanks to such a migrant crisis, which, behold, has experienced its epicenter in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the end? And just to explain briefly: We are getting contradictory information from the most responsible people in Bosnia and Herzegovina on these issues, so I will remind you that the Director of the State Border Service has said that almost 10,000 people have been registered so far, the question of how unregistered it has entered, that 99% of it has no documents, watch out, from 10,000 people have no 100 documents, to the fact that the eastern border guards one border guard at 33km, to the fact that these days the entire tide has been concentrated in one part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Krajina, that yesterday over 50 of the most responsible people from that area, which the chief, which has warned the public and state institutions about the complexity of the situation with which..., this region is exposed, to the fact that migrants have begun to die from the most dangerous diseases such as meningitis, to the fact that there is no consensus about where there will be a location and how there will be one of the most vulnerable areas, the institutions, that there is a serious and that there is a problem in the institutions. Here today we can't get it, it doesn't mean we won't get it next time. I give them the chance that both for the sake of the House of Peoples and for the sake of the general public, and I will speak further about this information, and otherwise, to conclude within this time period, because it would be good for us here as the House of Nations to have one conclusion today on this point 11, that the weight of this situation deserves both homes together with the Council of Ministers and competent institutions. I'm very responsible for saying this and not thinking about our vacation while things like this are happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4383	Thank you. Minister Mektić has not announced a leave of absence from today's session, but we will leave your question for the next session. Delegate Ljilja Zovko referred three questions in writing. The first issue was addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers and to all institutions, the second BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications and the third BiH Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and 6 economic relations with BiH, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the BiH Ministry of Security. Those questions are in accordance with Rule 158 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples which are referred to them. The delegatkinja received answers from the BiH Market Control Agency, the Agency for Labour and Employment of BiH and the Committee of State Service, the Committee of the Public Service for Appeals of BiH. Is the delegate satisfied with the answers she received? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4384	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the deal, but I'm just trying to explain to some people who aren't clear. It is legal entities, meaning the powers given to legal entities. If, here, they'll get into the record, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4385	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the delegates' questions. For the 41st session, I propose the next amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 40th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Report from the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, issue: 01,02-06-1004/18 of 18.04.2018; 3. Request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, No. 02-02-1-668/18 of 10.07.2018; 4. Proposal for a deposit insurance law in banks (P.Z.E.I.) (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1027718 of 18.05.2018, Summary of the shortened procedure; 5. Proposal for a Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-3010/17 of 21.03.2018; 6. Report on the work of the BiH Law Department for the period 01.01. — 31.12.2017, number: 01,02-10-905/18 of 06.04.2018; 7. Report on the implementation of the law of the Central Election Commission of BiH in 2017, delivered by the Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-1190/18 of 15.05.2018; 8. Second report on the monitoring of the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015- 2019 and the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015- 2019, submitted by the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, issue: 05/8-04-601/18 of 26.02.2018; 9. Report on the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption for the period from 01.01. — 31.12.2017., number: 05/8-04-785/18 of 20.03.2018; 10. Report on the work of the BiH Appeal Office for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19- 1258/18 of 22.05.2018; 11. Information on the implementation of the Emergency Action Plan and the implementation of the activities listed in the Information on the evaluations and possibilities of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the issue of the 7 refugee crisis in the region and the European Union and the review of the situation in relation to the Western Balkan route, the material of the BiH Council of Ministers, No 01,02,03- 04-741/18 of 14.03.2018; 12. Information on the project PRO-Future and Peace Platforms, applicant: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02-37-1671/17 of 11.07.2017; 13. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, Proposer: College of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH since 27.07.2018; 14. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding for Education, Higher Education and Scientific Research between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the State of Qatar, issue: 01,02-05-2-1141/18 of 09.05.2018; 15. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the State of Qatar on cooperation in the field of health, drug production and employment of healthcare professionals, No: 01,02-05-2-1142/18 of 09.05.2018; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the conditions of travel of citizens of the two countries, No 01,02-05-2-133/18 of 05.06.2018; 17. Giving consent to ratification Amendments to the Agreement establishing an international organisation ST-EP (Elimination of poverty through sustainable tourism), issue: 01,02-05-2-1348/18 of 31.05.2018; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Cultural, Educational and Scientific Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Czech Republic, issue: 01,02-05-2-1296/18 of 29.05.2018; 19. Giving consent to ratification of the Guarantee Treaty (Corridor Vc in RS Part 1) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-21220/18 of 31.05.2018; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the bat protection agreement in Europe (EUROBATS), London, 04.12.1991, number: 01,02-05-2-1347/18 of 01.06.2018; 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Finance Treaty (Corridor Vc - Mostar South) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, issue: 01,02-05-2-1485/18 of 25.06.2018; 22. Giving consent to ratification of the Finance Treaty (Corridor Vc - Zenica north) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, No: 01,02-05-21486/18 of 25.06.2018; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 1 to the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank on 19.05.2014 in Sarajevo and 05.06.2014 in Luxembourg (the Finance Treaty) – Distribution of Electricity BiH/B (Fi 83.108- SERAPIS 2010-0562), issue: 01.02-05-2-1542/18 of 04.07.2018; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Investment Grant Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, the Mediterranean Corridor (R2a): Bosnia and Herzegovina – Interconnection Croatia – Construction of the Cross-border Bridge in Gradišca, issue: 01,02,03-05-2-1535/18 of 04.07.2018; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Loan Agreement between the Council of Europe Development Bank and Bosnia and Herzegovina LD 1890 (2016) for funding of the Blue Water Regional Water Management Project, issue: 01,02-05-2-1585/18 of 10.07.2018. 8 This is the established agenda of the House of the Peoples. Is anyone answering for a word, is there a change and a supplement? Mr. Mario Karamatić answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, when you look at the agenda, we see that we have the Code of Criminal Procedure, so the Law on the State Agency for Investigations and Protection, so the prevention of the fight against corruption, so the immigration crisis, so it lives in horror. If someone accidentally looks at this, there's nothing to hope for in this country, but there's a song called "It's not all so gray," and there are some nice events both in our country and in our environment. So I would suggest that, as point 6, so before we move to the report on the work and ratification of the agreement, we put forward a proposal for a conclusion on how to send a card to the sports successes of the responsible individuals and teams in the country and the neighbourhood. I don't know how many, however, our first neighbours, and both Bosnia and Herzegovina, have achieved huge sports successes these days. Bosnia and Herzegovina's team won second place in the World Cup's sitting volleyball. The team of the Republic of Croatia won second place in the World Cup in football and Novak Đoković of the Republic of Serbia managed to adopt one of the most difficult grand straws to win, Wimbledon. So my proposal is to draw a conclusion as the sixth item of the agenda on how to send a card on the sports successes of the responsible individuals and teams in the country and the neighbourhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4387	My suggestion is to be delivered in writing to your draft agenda item. The word is Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4388	I thank the chairman. Dear presence, I welcome you all. The Bošnjak Club in accordance with Article 61(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House suggests that the agenda of today's session be complemented by the next item – the proposal for a conclusion on the embarrassing and inadmissible insults of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Vjerica Radeta. Reason: At the time of the death of the president of the Association "majka of Srebrenica“, rahmetli Hatidže Mehmedović, vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Vjerica Radet, directed a tweet with a morbid, shameful, unworthy, content. That statement is a monstrous mockery of the worst accident that can happen to a shirt, a wife, a sister, a woman who has lost two sons, two brothers, a wife, and a number of relatives. In terms of evil, the statement insulted all victims and all those who loathe evil in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, worldwide. They condemned that horrible hate speech. That's why I think the House of Peoples should react. We cannot prevent anyone from showing his distasteful face, however, we can expect that the person who offends Bosniaks the most, but also all other victims, regardless of where they come from, should be removed from the leadership of the National Assembly of the Most High Legislative Body of the Republic of Serbia. To remove such a person from the leadership of the National Assembly is, above all, an expression of respect for all victims, but also an necessity in the interest of developing good relations between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the interest of good co-operation between the highest representative bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. I therefore propose that the House of Nations adopt the following conclusion: 9 1. The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH strongly condemns the shameful and non-civilising statement of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Vjerica Radeta, and calls on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine against that statement; 2. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH calls on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to confirm a commitment to develop good relations and co-operation with the highest representative bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, to Vjerica Radeta Radet from the post of vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We propose that the proposed supplement be considered as two, i.e. the second item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4389	Thank you very much. We no longer have proposals for changes and additions to the agenda. We'll approach the vote. Mr. Mario Karamatić suggested a agenda point, since we didn't have time to multiply this proposal, I will read it again. Conclusion on sending a card on sports successes to the merited individuals and teams in the country and the neighbourhood. It's proposed as a agenda point under number 6. We'll approach the vote. I'm sorry I didn't, it didn't come out on the monitor here, so here's where we can cancel the voting results if it is. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's possible that, too, me. Here we cancel the vote, given that we didn't really have Mr. Nović's application monitor. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4391	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest a five-minute break on behalf of the Serbian People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4392	A five-minute break at Mr. Nović's request. [[PAUZA]] I suggest we take their seats, get started. Mr. Nović, do you need to take a word after your break? Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4394	Thank you. I asked for a break for the Serbian People's Club to consult on initiatives to include these two points proposed by Mr Karamatić and Mr Genjac. First of all, when it comes to Mr. Genjac's proposal, I don't think that there should be any worse hatred and conflict than this country has in general, every normal one has, as far as I can see, condemned, individually and individually, statements by all those who, with a dose of terrible words, said about it, but also some other cases, and it can't, of course, be accepted by anyone who thinks at all human and civilizationally. But there are still things to forget, first if I am not mistaken that Maja Gojković has apologized to everyone for this gesture, as president of the Serbian Parliament. On the other hand, I think 41 MPs in the Serbian Parliament have already launched an initiative to replace Mrs Radeta. Thirdly, it seems to me that Mr Softić has also made a statement on the subject and has condemned whether, on behalf of his party or not, I do not know Parliament, I cannot really quote and ultimately, it is not important, but it would be more serious to me that you have had the strength, if you have proposed these two conclusions, so that you have found that you are also consulting us, given that it cannot even pass the conclusion if we did not agree these conclusions together. I think it's inappropriate for us to teach a third-country parliament what he needs to do, to resolve someone, to suspend someone, etc. etc. And that, therefore, is about this question. As for the issues of our colleagues, Karamatić, if we were to congratulate all those who have achieved good sports results in the Olympic, world, European and other championships, unfortunately, it seems to me that we would only congratulate third countries, because in our country there is obviously less and less bearers of such, such medals. In addition, we have the ministry in charge and it is perfectly appropriate that, in the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, give a congratulations on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Sports Results. I don't think we should get into this because then why don't we congratulate everyone, including France, who's the winner of the championship, so tomorrow will probably be one of the volleyball players, so on and on. And to finish, the Serbian People's Club is unique and cannot support any of these proposed initiatives to be included in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4395	Thank you very much, Mr. Nović. Whether the proposings stay on their proposals to join the vote. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4396	Thank you. Given that we have opened a debate on agendas and agenda proposals, I will be very brief without the intention of making this question more painful and more difficult than it is. So, all of this is true and that the National Assembly president has had the right reaction and that a large number of public figures have quite understandable and quite rightly condemned this, but I still think that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH should also speak its mind and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be determined on this, rather. Why? Because it is a statement of women sitting in the leadership of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I have no intention at all, nor any claim to give lessons, to teach lessons, nor to do so, but I think 11 that we can invite friends from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, from the parliament with which we have co-operation, to promote further development and good co-operation, to invite them to consider removing from the leadership persons with such attitudes. Because I do not see how co-operation could be developed between the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with such a composition of leadership. Of course, like any proposal for a conclusion during the session, subject to discussion, finding a compromise and seeking a solution to find a solution that is acceptable to all. No conclusion can be reached if there is not enough number of delegates here to reach that conclusion. And, of course, I assumed that the fact in the event of the vote is that we talk about it and agree on the conclusion, but believe me, it's for the whole moment, for everything that's about this so that it's good for the people's home to condemn it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4397	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr. Ognjen Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, the distinguished guests of the correction of the quorum are thus formulated in our Rules of Procedure, but it should essentially be some additional explanation that seems to be important to the public. To put in the context of Parliament's statement Radetić's National Assembly of Serbia or Serbia is wrong for several reasons, but the one that matters here is that it should be known that the leadership of the National Assembly of Serbia is not elected as ours. So in the leadership of the National Assembly of Serbia, according to percentages of participation in the legislative authority and the authorities and the opposition have their own representatives. Therefore, the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina should know that Mrs Radet is not part of any ruling majority, nor participates in the exercise of power, nor is she a representative of Serbia's official in any way. In this sense, it is important, therefore, now that it does not create a discussion of whether we are calling on Serbia to accept or not to accept the burden on Tviter written by Radet, so it is not about that. Tomorrow anyone from her party can also be found in that place and repeat it, and that is a story that goes on indefinitely, it simply has nothing to do with the very concept of parliamentaryism that we have here, where leadership is made up of the representatives of the majority, there are representatives of both the majority and minorities, and that is a different concept of the election. Secondly, I think that at the moment that the National Assembly of Serbia itself is doing what, here, this conclusion would be asked of it, it is not aid to the National Assembly of Serbia, but may be the help of the Radet MPs. Accordingly, if we want to first see what the National Assembly of Serbia thinks about it and how it will make it clear that we will not prejudge these issues in any way, because politicising this situation means simply putting into the political context one topic that we all know all about in Bosnia and Herzegovina and different approaches, different opinions and all that is part of our life since '95. It's years to go. So, I would like to invite a really proposing that, at this point in time, we don't bring up a single question like this to the final statement, so we can withdraw this proposal at this point. Secondly, I would invite him to, before and possibly next time, propose one such initiative, first to consult with the presidents of all defiances, and in this way, to achieve possibly some text that speaks about these things in the way he can speak on behalf of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH everything is left, here we are still treating as very reasonable, as I would say, a context in which 12 things happen, there is no debate or argument, thank Bog, which speaks of our maturity as people responsible for peace and political stability. But of course, everything has its own measure and let the National Assembly of Serbia do what it wants to do, and after all these reactions, we will see what the public in Serbia and the National Assembly of Serbia thinks about it all.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4399	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Mario Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And here's respecting absolutely everything that Honorable colleague Nović said, I have a few more things to say. First, I wish someone had listened to the proposal, so when I said congratulations in the country and the neighbourhood, a superficial view of the map geographically says that Bosnia and Herzegovina are neighbouring countries of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro. Unfortunately, Montenegro has won nothing, and I agree that very rarely we have a chance in Bosnia and Herzegovina to look forward to anything, and I think this is exactly the moment that we finally won another place in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the World Cup and when we have great results in the neighbourhood to take advantage of it. And when I tell the neighborhood, regardless of the former Serbian Academy of Science and Arts Memorial, of a particular ambition from the past when graphites were written – Serbia to Tokyo, etc. I must warn my distinguished colleague Nović that France does not border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, does not border with Republika Srpska and does not border with Serbia, means only CREDITS
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4401	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4402	As a friend, you see, I don't know where you were going to make a corridor or anything, as you imagined, but at this point, so we don't have to congratulate France or Brazil, because it's simply not our neighbouring country and here I would direct you to look at the map and I'm staying with my proposal and I'm asking to vote on it. Well, we'll see what the distinguished colleagues say and what their opinion is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4403	Thank you very much, Mr. Karamatić. Mr. Ognjen Tadić has the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4404	So here's when you insist on it, it's more appropriate to do something else, it's not common for a state body, an institution to congratulate some sports alliance, but it would be appropriate for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the House of People, to congratulate the Russian Federation and Russian President Vladimir Putin on the successful organisation of the World Cup. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4405	That's it, isn't it? Thank you very much. Mrs. Ljilja Zovko has her word. Here you go. Boyan
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4406	Mario Karamatić has a correction to the wrong assumption. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4407	And Mr. Mario Karamatić has the wrong quote, I apologize to Mrs. Zovko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4408	So here's absolutely respecting the attitude of a respected member of the College, I suggest that he report to the debate on the agenda for the second time, which is still under way, and suggest a point of the agenda, and we will come forward and, even though I personally think that the Russian Federation has done a fantastic organisational job at this World Cup football. And my proposal is not only about the Vimbldon, it's about the Rus, it's about Englez, it's about a lot of things, and I'm stressing again to neighbouring countries, at least in my proposal, so I don't know where you're pulling out the really Russian Federation because Russia doesn't border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, it doesn't border with the Republic of Serbia, it doesn't border with the Republic of Serbia. So these are some geographical aspects that you might find interesting, but here's no problem suggesting a point of the agenda, so we're going to be obvious. Thank you. FIRE
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4409	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4410	A little geography. Here you go, Mrs. Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4411	Thank you very much. Given the situation, I would really ask my colleagues if they could withdraw these two proposals for changes to the agenda, because we have always always agreed, we as the House of Peoples have worked all this time agreed and it would be nice to move these two proposals to item 12 when the Information on the PRO-Future and Platform project where it is so beautifully described and where we all support mutual respect and mutual cooperation and Bosnia and Herzegovina can only function in such a way. We all know that well, we all know exactly who he agrees with, and we can condemn every hate speech there, and we can send congratulations to all the winners, and that it's part of point 12, so we don't come into a situation where we vote on these things, because when this house comes out, it's just going to produce greater evil, and we don't need the cure we don't need poison. Please, if you can think about not coming to any of these political ones that are going to cause it, the weather is certainly raving, here you can see that on Twitters and Facebooks, everything is saying that we're not producing now who supported it, who didn't support it. We need to cooperate and 14 we need to talk and respect each other, and that sort of thing, we need to agree on the text, from word to word. If you could please think again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4412	Thank you, Mrs. Zovko. We will approach the vote, the proposings have remained on their proposals after this break, I will put Mr Karamatić's first proposal to the vote, and we will read again. Therefore, point 6 is proposed to conclude on the reference of congratulations to the sports successes of the responsible individuals and teams in the country and the neighbourhood. We'll approach the vote. Thank you very much. There are 15 delegates present – for there were 8, against the 6.1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. From Republika Srpska -- no blasts for, 5 against and no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. We're going to the second round of voting, and we don't have consent in college. The vote was 15 delegates – for it was 7.6 against, 2 abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 7 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska -- no votes against, 5 against, no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority, so I'm realizing that the draft agenda doesn't go through. We will approach the vote on Mr Halid Genjac's draft agenda, he has paved as point 2 of the proposal, which is read by the speaker, and we will put this draft agenda to the vote, supplementing the agenda. There are 15 delegates present – for it was 7.5 against, 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 7 for, without votes against, 3 abstentions. Republika Srpska -- no votes against, 5 against, no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. We're going to the second round there's no agreement. The vote was attended by 15 delegates -- 7.5 votes against, 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 7 for, without votes against, 3 abstentions. Republika Srpska -- without a vote by, 5 votes against, without abstentions. There is a general majority not an entity majority, so I find that the proposal to amend the agenda by Mr Genjac has not received the necessary majority. We will also vote on the proposed agenda, given that we have had these changes, we will put the proposed agenda to the vote the way the College did. The vote was attended by 15 delegates – for 15, with no votes against and no abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 10 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 5 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the agenda of the 41st session has been adopted. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 40th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH 15 I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We don't have any reports. We are voting on the 40th session of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The vote was attended by 15 delegates – for 15, with no votes against and no abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 10 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 5 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions. There is a general, there is an entity majority therefore I find that the minutes of the 40th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Report from the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, issue: 01,02-06-1004/18 of 18.04.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4415	I thank you again. Well, here's just a few things that don't go through this agenda point without our envoys' reaction, and it's about, therefore, the report of the most important bodies of the association in which we all want, at least that's how I hope, and I believe it's still the majority mood of citizens in this country, to be full members and just a few things, so. First, the political situation, the political criteria that are listed here, and the real situation when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, tells us a few things. It says – the functioning of the BiH Presidency has been affected by the misrepresentation of individual members of the Presidency on a number of issues of competence over foreign policy. So, the constitutional responsibility of the Presidency is to remind us all of the foreign policymaking and the representation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests. When it comes to Parliament, we are dear and respected colleagues and colleagues in Parliament, which is said to be the result of the failure of the Parliamentary Assembly to implement a decision within 6 months, the Constitutional Court abolished unconstitutional provisions as soon as a legal gap was created that could potentially make it difficult to implement the General Elections 2018. The decision of the Constitutional Court of 2010 should be implemented to protect the democratic right of the citizens of Mostar, and here is eight years. 16 As far as Parliament's functioning is concerned, it says - tensions among the ruling coalition's parties have affected negatively. Then it is further talked about the European Court of Human Rights ruling, and then it is about the state of human freedom, the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime. And what can we read out of all this? We can read, therefore, that there exists here in continuity, I would say, one already standing up, that I do not use some more difficult words, almost bureaucratic language to write these reports behind which, in fact, between the lines can be pointed out, therefore, that firstly ruling is absolutely not on the trail of those strategic definitions that this country and its institutions have drawn up when it comes to the European path and that this cannot be covered up anymore, this is my message to those who, on behalf of the European Commission, come here and say that extraordinary progress has been made. Well, we had this opportunity to hear it on several occasions, and then we have reports like this that secrete actually a real state. So this real state means at least three years late from the promised deadline for obtaining candidate status which at that time in those three lost years over a hundred thousand people leave this country and defacto we have the most responsible people in Europe who these days coming here can only conclude, unfortunately, that, as they say, the nations are increasingly moving away from each other and not that we are going together to build relations and that European future. And what's special, here, and I'm going to end it, significantly is that the people of the Council of Ministers who are quite often scolded by this European agenda that they're not there today when this is on the agenda here. According to the highest legislative institution, they are not there when it comes to the country's most difficult issues such as the refugee crisis and some other issues. So I just want to point out that micro-crisis, the hypocrisis, so the behavior of the most responsible duties, the purchase, the purchase of points of daily policy, and actually the essential processes when it comes to... the integration goes on. And not to mention the real state of human rights and the hopelessness of ordinary man and his faith at all whether there is more in institutions and equality before the law, etc. So the big gap is between that and the big picture when it comes to the European path towards the real situation, that doesn't mean that we should give up, so I am convinced that there will soon be a change in these structures that will still be much more credible when it comes to this European path and meeting the obligations, criteria and values that we need to pursue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4416	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. The word is Mr. Sifet Podžić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4417	I welcome distinguished colleagues. Mr. Chairman, I don't know how you got the information that the European Integration Commission was considering this. So, we just had to have this on the agenda the day before yesterday, and the Commission had no quorum, I don't think there were any conditions to discuss this point of the agenda, and by adding what Mr. Raguž added, we don't even have a Council of Ministers chairman here,... people and I don't think we can just discuss this, did the Commission not declare this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4418	Thank you very much. 17 Services delivered as if the Commission had an opinion, and I apologize for this failure. The word is Mr. Nebojša Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4419	Are we arguing or not breaking up, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4420	We've opened this agenda point, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4421	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen and Mr. Chairman, I hope we see the same thing here, so that you from there see what we see and what Mr. Raguž and the others were talking about. Take a look at this second row, and we are discussing the European Commission's report and let me remind you, the chairman of the Council of Ministers was the one who, in this room and at the meetings of the Joint Commission, talked so much about the successes of the Council, to whom he was at something, when it comes to the European path, when we were all surprised. You remember that we knew that we were telling him that we seem to be living in different countries, he's gone today, there's no Council of Ministers, respecting two ministers and two deputies who are there, and that doesn't make sense. And that's what the College had to say at the very beginning, that we can't have this sort of debate here at all in this situation. It's nice when Mr. Raguž says - we'll discuss it next time. There's no Mr. Raguž next time, no. The Council of Ministers shows us that there is no next time, we still think there are, they don't care, neither we, nor anyone in this country, they're on vacation, and people are asking for work. And when it came to the European way, there had to be a lot more work to do and we had to take steps there. There are things worse than in this report, the report itself is an incredible criticism of the current government. So all we've been saying from the opposition at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina is little as it says in the report. It was like that last time, only the chairman convinced us that we had misread it. But those who followed the summit in Sofia could hear worse about this, or not hear anything, and that is worse, to say that there is no Bosnia and Herzegovina anywhere on that road. And the Council of Ministers doesn't come to tell us about it, or the chairman, I apologize again to the two of you who are here and the two deputies, and I don't think we have the conditions to discuss this. I think we need to hear from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers what realising Bosnia and Herzegovina's strategic path is when it comes to the European Union and whether there is one at all. The way things are going, it's never going to be any of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4422	Thank you very much. We don't have any more logs. From what Mr. Podžić and Mr. Radmanović have said, I understand that you are proposing that we postpone the debate on this matter, on this agenda point given the lack of the chairman's council of ministers. Here, I'll put this motion to the vote, and we'll get to the point. We will certainly not vote on this report, but the debate makes sense if the chairman is present. We'll put it to a vote, so this debate on this point will be postponed for the next session. 18 The vote was attended by 15 delegates – for it was 13.1 against, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH - 9 for, 1 against, without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 for, without votes against, 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that the proposal to postpone the debate on this agenda for the next session has received the necessary majority. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, No. 02-02-1-668/18 of 10.07.2018 You have received a request from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to discuss the amendment and supplementation of the BiH Criminal Procedure Act under an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law, if he's here. I'm opening a debate. Who's picking up for a word? Is there anyone from the House of Representatives here? There isn't. Mr. Amir Fazlić is, as far as I know, the Proposer of this Law in the House of Representatives. Unless the promoter is here, we will have to put it to the vote whether we will continue the debate at this point, or we will postpone it for the next time the proposal is present. Mr. Sredoje Nović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4424	What an absurdity in this country. So should we really talk here or finish this session and go home? Is this really, is this embarrassing for the public of this country? So where are those who say this morning, who does not vote in favour of this law with the criminals? Where are the ones who ordered it like that, so where are the legislators of this bill? It's known that it wasn't the Law of Honor from the House of Representatives, so I guess we're all so written. And look, please, a hit, a land crash, the Constitution will be a horror, the people, here he is, coming in, killing, slaughtering, crime, corruption, give the law an emergency procedure, who defends him? I don't have words, a lot to say, sometimes I do, but I want to stay just for myself. Gentlemen in the ruling furniture, then, pass this law. Here, if you can and without this novice, no one else, and don't ever show up at this House with any law of urgency. Listen, the Emergency Procedure Act and nobody even moves their ear. I have nothing to say, this is the reality of today's ruling coalition in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4425	Thank you, Mr. Nović. 19 We continue to work. So, because of the absence of the motionors, we are obliged to put the motion to the vote today whether we will discuss this Law without the presence of the promoter, or whether we will postpone it for the next session. I'm putting it to a vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4429	I'm sorry. I don't think there's any room for inappropriate dramatization or for untimely cartooning. So we have before us a law that has been in the process for months. A law that the entire public knows all about and the law about which these delegates here in the House of Peoples know everything about. So, this is no reflection of the state of the ruling set, the relationship to the laws and the solutions in the law is a reflection of each of us individually and a reflection of our relationship with organised crime and... terrorism and international crime, which is particularly important, and a reflection of respect for what we have committed ourselves to, and that is to accept certain standards in, from Europe in the Bosnian Herzegovina judiciary and ensuring the integrity of the justice system. Therefore, there is a business provision that should be the present representative. Many times, the House of Representatives proposed law, and if the representative of the House of Representatives had not been present, this has happened many times. It's not a drama, and that's not why nothing happened, and that's not why anything significant is going to happen. I don't see what new a representative of the House of Representatives might tell us except what we all know, all of us, all of us individually. So this is an attempt to draw attention to this one in particular, for the content of the question rather irrelevantly. So, please, an important question on the agenda, a question that we know everything about, there's a business provision, but please don't be dramatic and don't represent it as it isn't. So we have before us the Law, we have a statement of procedure, a law we've known all about for months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4430	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Raguž has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4431	Thank you. So we can't say that this is not a reflection of the state in the parliamentary majority, Mr. Genjac, with all due respect for these other facts. This is just one of the most radical expressions of reality, but it doesn't justify us, I still agree with you, that we continue to take responsibility for this important law because if you don't have within the Council of Ministers one proposal coming before Parliament, then the elemental fact, therefore, that you have no political responsibility for this important... And then what do we have? We have the fact that there are people, institutions, and even from Europe, and from friendly countries, I am so experiencing and I want to say for the sake of the public, who are sincerely concerned about the possibility that Bosnia and Herzegovina will lose its instruments, to deal with organised crime, corruption, terrorism, etc. These are facts and we all have communication with each other both with the institutions and with the public, and with the real state and each of us will be determined individually or jointly about it, it is a legitimate right, but we cannot speculate on the responsibility of those who should have suggested it. It's not because of this law, it's because of the fact, so what's happening to us and why we're here where we are before each election. We don't know who the government is anymore, who the opposition is, we blame others from another nation, and we have this hot sand all the time, the transfer of responsibility. Make a fair account for all the good that's at stake, we'll all welcome it, which isn't, ask the people for support for what's good, if it's not good, so let's break that cycle once. And as far as this law is concerned, I don't think we have the space to play with this law anymore, we don't have any more space because we saw a little while ago on the example of the migrant crisis, so it's on all other examples, so we're wasting time, we're not capacitated into political confrontations and a number of other things, and I think I'm one of those who's willing to take the responsibility that this House finally gives its contribution, to adopt a law that no matter what anyone thinks, has some kind of certificate from people who live these values, which are European values from European institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4432	Thank you. Mrs. Ljilja Zovko has her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4433	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a 10-minute break from the Croatian People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4434	Break 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]] The word is Mr. Ognjen Tadić, in the name of the College. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4436	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, we have a quorum to work on, as far as we can see. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum to work with. So, after these consultations in which the College of the House of Peoples participated, we are free to suggest the following. Given the atmosphere that exists with regard to this point, as well as the ambience that is working, and regarding this matter and the desire not to show any obstruction, because it is not, the defacto is not, but is simply looking for an explanation of the adequate issues that are important for the final decision on this subject, that not wasting time, although the promoter does not have today we take the position to continue the debate on this agenda point and thus to make clear whether we are in favour of an urgent or shortened procedure, assuming, of course, that the consultations have been carried out, on the outcome of that vote. We believe that this would be the best way to get the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH out of this situation that he is not responsible for, because as we can see, the defacto-response who has put us all in a position, and I would say some representatives of the international community who are better today..., now I am saying this on my behalf, not on behalf of the College, who, without any need, have poured oil on this fire for which reasons, will likely be more known over the next week or days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4437	Mr. Raguž, there's a session in progress.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4438	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4439	The seat is in progress, I say. Thank you very much. Mr. Mario Karamatić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4440	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, right now, let me say, even though I don't in principle support that it works on any point, on any suggestion, on any proposal, unless the proposer is present, because that's a staunch minimum of decency. I remember when any law I proposed, I used to come from Herzegovina just to get on board, so they took it off, so I went back again, but so it's a minimum of decency and it's some basic behavior, here, I don't know what to say. As far as this Law is concerned, we had, and I'm glad that the House of Peoples will show responsibility and I will support the proposal of the College of Pitties to the College and respect, so totally compromised by me. What I mean is, when you open any media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, any one, you see so much concern of the international community that has such an impact on our colleagues in the House of Representatives that they have failed to ask or force any of them to come here today as a promoter. So any representative from the House of Representatives could be here today, and we would have a proposing. What I can conclude from this, that the distinguished gentlemen of the International Community and our colleagues from the Representative's Department are so concerned about this Law that they don't sleep from it for days, but that's why they're getting very nice at night, and they seem to have extended today. There you go. That's it. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4441	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Rodić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4442	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Here, given that the topic is very serious and serious already for a longer period when it comes to this Law, let me say a few words in favour of the fact that this matter and this legislative proposal are not only about the reform of the House of Peoples, but about this Law and the serious work and trying to reach the ultimate solution. In the meantime, of all these urgenities, certain views of certain representatives within Bosnia and Herzegovina, and both outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, we also have a new solution to the BiH Constitutional Court that has somewhat overcome the situation. Of course, it is impossible to overcome permanently, but there is currently no legal vacuum when this is a legal solution. Secondly, I came forward from only one simple fact, which is that the constitutional, Constitutional Commission on July 25th discussed the draft laws in the People's House procedure and that, as you know, on both of these laws, the laws proposed by the Croatian People's Club in the House of Peoples, and also by the distinguished delegate Halid Genjac, there are amendments to both the Serbian People's Club, and some day the amendments of the Croatian People's Club were made to both laws. We have taken this proposal very seriously, and we have agreed on a Constitutional Commission not an individual, not anyone, but representatives of the constituent people, that today, given that we have three laws in the procedure, that the previous two who are in the procedure should extend the amendment phase, and that today we should declare this Law by an urgent procedure. I think we have the assumption that very quickly, depending on the procedure that we are about to adopt today, we will continue to work on this law and that very quickly in the way I think it should be done, to say and to consider everything that is currently in circulation and to find in direct talks, of course, not neglecting either the fact, nor the role of the International Community, the best solution. If the best solution is what is offered and whatever is offered, it is said that does not meet the standards, I think that none of us are individually working on this Law, but that includes the justice ministries and entities and top lawyers and I am convinced that we can get out of this situation. That's why I don't think we should, I agree, this isn't common when it's so important that there's no one who's proposing, but sometimes the urgency, sometimes the importance of the bill itself goes beyond the need for clean business. I think we should move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4443	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. I am putting on the vote of the College's proposal to continue the debate under this Law without the presence of the Proposer. 15 delegates joined the vote. For it was 15, no votes against, no abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 10 for, without votes against, without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 5 for, without votes against, without abstentions. 23 There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, so I find that this proposal has received the necessary majority. Now we're going to put to the vote, we're going to actually vote on the procedure of the law itself, on whether or not we're going to consider the bill by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. 15 delegates joined the vote. For it was seven against seven, abstention one. The Federation of BiH – 6 for, 4 against, without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 1 for, 3 against and 1 abstention. There is no general majority, therefore I find that the proposal to consider the law under emergency procedure has not been given the necessary majority. Since the request for an examination of the Amendment Act and the completion of the Law on the Emergency Procedure of BiH has not been adopted, we first need to make a statement on the application for the review of the Law under the shortened procedure in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We'll approach the vote. There are 15 delegates present. For it was 14, no votes against, with one abstention. The Federation of BiH - 9 for, without votes against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 5 for, without votes against, without abstentions. There is a general majority, there is also an entity majority, so I find that the amendment and supplementation of the BiH Criminal Procedure Act has been adopted under the shortened procedure. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Deposit Insurance in Banks (P.Z.E.I) (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1027718 of 18.05.2018, reviewing the shortened procedure This is the first reading of the bill, Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received opinions from the legislative sector, the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples and the Commission for Finance and the Budget of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The legislative sector has found that the draft law does not comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As a result, the College of the House of Nations sent a letter to the Proposer and the opinion of the Legislative Sector to correct the observed shortcomings in the proposal for a law on the insurance of deposits in banks. The proposal submitted a new text of the draft law in line with the Opinion of the Legislative Sector on 18.05.2018. The constitutional committee of the House of Peoples found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. The Commission for Finance and the Budget of the People's House supported the principles of the bill. The House of Representatives adopted the first reading on the extension of the 63rd session held on 26.07.2018 under the brief procedure of the Bill on Deposit Insurance in Banks. I give my word to Lilja Zovko, chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples. LLYLIA
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4445	24 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4446	As in the report. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. Do you have needs, if you don't have...? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the proposal for a law on the insurance of deposits in banks in first reading. The vote was attended by 15 delegates, 13 delegates, I apologize. It was 13, no votes against, no abstentions. Federation bih - 9 for, without votes against, without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 for, without votes against, without abstentions. I find that there is a general majority, there is an entity majority, so I can conclude that the Bill on Deposit Insurance in Banks was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-3010/17 of 21.03.2018.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4449	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4450	It's like the report. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving on to, is the promoter present, excuse me? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4454	So, I don't know where you heard or saw Mr. Radmanović that I said we could skip. Look at the stenogram, please, and we'll discuss it next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4455	Thank you very much. We are voting on whether we will continue the debate on this item of the agenda without the applicant's presence. 26 The vote was attended by 13 delegates. For it was 4.8 against, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH – 4 for, 4 against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska -- without votes to, 4 against, without abstentions. There is no general majority, therefore I can conclude that the proposal to continue the debate on this agenda has not been adopted. So we move to point six, Ad. Six. Report on the work of the BiH Law Department for the period 01.01. — 31.12.2017., number: 01,02-10-905/18 of 06.04.2018. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission accepted the report. At the 61st session held on 17 May 2018, the House of Representatives discussed the above report and directed it to the College for lack of entity majority. The College reached agreement, which adopted the BiH Law Department's report for the period 01.01.- 31.12.2017. I give the word to Halid Genjac, chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. HALID
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4457	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4458	As in the report. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the BiH Law Department's report for the period 01.01.-31.12.2017. 12 delegates joined the vote. It was 8.2 against, 2 abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against, without abstentions. Republika Srpska -- without votes to, with 2 against and 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority... [[/College consent.]] We don't have a common position in the College. We're approaching the vote again. 12 delegates joined the vote. It was 8, 3 against, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against, without abstentions. Republika Srpska -- without votes to, 3 against, 1 abstention. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority therefore I find that the BiH Law Department's Labour Report for the period 01.01.-31.12. 2017 adopted. Moving to point seven, 27 Ad. Seven. Report on the implementation of the law of the Central Election Commission of BiH in 2017, delivered by the Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-1190/18 of 15.05.2018.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4461	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4462	As in the report. I'll give the word to the Reporter if he wants to. There's no... Irena
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4463	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4464	There's a need. Here you go, Mrs. Hadžiabdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4465	I thank the chairman very briefly. In front of you on page 160, I would like to point out that we have had very demanding elections for the Municipality of Stolac, early elections for the mayors in Trnov – Republika Srpska and Glamoc in 2017, and indirect elections for the City of Sarajevo and the City of Eastern Sarajevo. Our focus in 2017 was on quality preparation of the general choices we have this year. We worked intensively to update the voter lists, to operate the electoral administration and systematically and gradually advocate the introduction of new technologies. Of course, we have also worked to improve the legislation, we have initiated amendments to the Election Law and the Law on the financing of political parties and delivered our proposals to the Interresor Working Group as early as July 2017. I won't bother you with internal improvements in terms of electronic protocol, electronic scale records, open education centre, I'll point out that I consider the publication of property records for the first time since 2013. This would be in the shortest lines what the Central Election Commission was doing in 2017. You have a recommendation on page 153, and I regret to say that we regularly copy the recommendations we make in our reports. Recommendations adopted from 2015 and 2016 on 153 were adopted, unfortunately they are not implemented, their implementation does not depend solely on the Central Election Commission, we are powerless and in that sense I would simply like to encourage your attention. 28 If there were any debates and I personally and my colleagues would appreciate reasoned statements and considerations about what the CEC should have done in 2017 and not done. Thank you for your opportunity.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4466	Thank you, Mrs. Hadžiabdić. I'm opening the debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. We vote on the report on the implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's law in 2017, together with the recommendations contained in the Report. The vote was attended by 11 delegates – for it was 10, without votes against, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH – 7 for, without votes against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 3 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, so I find that the report on the implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's law in 2017 along with the recommendations contained in the Report has been adopted. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Second report on the monitoring of the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015-2019 and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015-2019, submitted by the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, issue: 05/8-04-601/18 of 26.02.2018 You have received the Commission's opinion on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. The Commission accepted the Report, the House of Representatives held at the 62nd session, held on 31.05, 20.06 and 05.07.2018, examined the report and, due to the lack of entity majority, directed it to a co-ordination in the College. I give the word to the Commission's representative for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption at the House of Nations, if necessary. There's no need. I give the word to the Reporter. Is he present? Yes, it is. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Second Monitoring Report on the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015-2019. the year and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015-2019. A year. The vote was attended by 11 delegates – 8.3 were votes against, without abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska -- without votes to, with 3 votes against and without abstentions. 29 There is a general majority, there is no... We'll leave a statement for next time. [[Disable microphone]] I find, therefore, that the second monitoring report of the implementation of the Combat Strategy remains for the next session. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Report on the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption for the period 01.01 to 31.12.2017, issue: 05/8-04-785/18 of 20.03.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4469	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here I have to say that the report is excellently written, timelyly delivered in the third month, a little bit is that we are just now considering it at the end of the seventh month, and it is very transparent and really to read what the Agency did, which is what it did, and so here is the review of this, that I have come to the conclusion that the Agency has implemented in cooperation with other institutions and organisations in the course of 2017 around, the exact number to say, 41 training, meaning, employees of the Ministry of Security and SIPA, various institutions. And through these anti-corruption trainings, I think it's true, 1,640 employees on the budget, meaning 1,640 people on the SIPA, in the municipalities, cities, counties, the Federation, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think that the Agency has done a pretty serious job, plus what the co-ordinators are appointed, means to prevent and fight corruption and organised crime. Furthermore, the report also says that all of this vast army of 1,640 trained officials only in 2017, because the Agency does so continuously, means every year they do these trainings and products of these people who should know how to fight corruption, preventing abuse of the area of position. So, after 1,640 civil servants and tenants trained only in 2017, this resulted in believe or not a total of 130 submissions with indications of corrupt behaviour. So we come up with data that over 100 trained civil servants are unable to submit one valid application with only indications of corrupt behavior, so this is not about anyone being in corruption at all, but here's the possibility that there may be 30 possible, there may be a reasonable doubt. And when we compare what the Agency has done, when I compare the number of applications submitted, when I see how many institutions have received certificates that can fight corruption, the only conclusion that I can come to, is that they are trained for free while they are employed there, as they say, by grandmother and by uncles, while incompetent people come to the responsible places, where the public tender for filling jobs serves only to satisfy the form and this is a defeated data, so I'm talking about my own opinion that this is the defeated data only in 2017, over 1,600 employees trained to fight corruption, that it has managed to raise 130 applications that only retain the indication. I think last year that I was saying, it was also an army of about 2,000 dressed almost, and that resulted in, believe it or not, a once-convicted verdict of corrupt behavior, one verdict. Now, it might not be a bad idea to think if we were to invest so much in fighting corruption or simply this means that we use to train thousands of government employees to fight corruption to share these corrupt civil servants so they don't have to take from the people. Here's a clear idea for thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4470	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. We don't have any more charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency for the period from 01.01 to 31.12.2017. The vote was attended by 11 delegates – for 8.3 against, without abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska -- without votes to, 3 against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. We'll leave for the next session hearing in the second round. We're going to point 10. Ad. Ten. Report on the work of the BiH Appeal Office for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-1258/18 of 22.05.2018 You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Commission has adopted the Report with the proposed Conclusion 1 from the Report. At the extension of the 63rd session, held on 26 July 2018, the House of Representatives discussed the report and directed it to the College for insufficient entity majority. I give the word to Ljilja Zovko, chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission. LLYLIA
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4472	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4473	It's like the report. 31 I give word to the bearer of the report. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the report on the work of the BiH Appeals Office for 2017 with the proposed Conclusion 1 from the Report. The vote was attended by 11 delegates – there were 11, no votes against and no abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 3 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that the report on the work of the BiH Appeal Office for 2017 was adopted with the proposed Conclusion 1 of the Report. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Information on the implementation of the Emergency Action Plan and the implementation of the activities listed in the Information on the evaluations and possibilities of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the issue of the refugee crisis in the region and the European Union and the review of the situation in relation to the Western Balkan route, the material of the BiH Council of Ministers, No 01,02,03-04-741/18 of 14.03.2018 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, the Commission has taken note of the Information. The House of Representatives adopted conclusions at the 61st session, held on 17.05.2018, during the discussion, which delayed the debate and the statement on the Information for its obsolescence, and was tasked with the BiH Council of Ministers to draw up new full and up-to-date information. I give the word to Sifet Podžić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4475	Well, I can only report, therefore, that the Joint Defence and Security Commission held its session the day before yesterday, and at the request of a respected delegate, counterpart Karamatić, this was also an extraordinary point that we discussed again and I don't think it has yet reached home, but it has two or three conclusions, among other things – To be implemented, that the Council of Ministers implements the measures that primarily the Director of the Border Police, Mr Galić, has also requested some other agencies. But I just want to say, I have come forward for the only reason to point out that, among other things, the Commission has concluded that it is necessary to launch a parliamentary investigation into the institutions that falsely informed us of both this home and the Commission that everything is fine, that everything is under control and that they have not taken control, I will not say anything, but not adequate measures to be prepared for this problem that is present at the moment. So there is, therefore, and one of the conclusions is that, the other is – that the Council of Ministers finally respects everything the Director of the Border Police requires primarily. And you know there are financial demands and a lot of other things. There you go, that's all. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4476	Thank you, Mr. Podžić. The word is Mr. Sead Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4477	Dear Chairman, co-chairing, colleagues and fellow delegates, ministers in the Council of Ministers, all present, I welcome you all together. I am obliged and morally and by the fact that I come from these places where it is visible that we have a big problem down here, and I can't answer here and not say a word about it all, and I don't want to be as silent as I call my colleagues not to be silent, is this a problem that this whole country is going to get into a huge problem very quickly. Here we are today considering the Information of 08.02.2018, and today it is, here it is. I asked the question of this problem somewhere in May when it just started on the Uno-San canton and I didn't get any answer at all, and I didn't get an answer from any of them, and even if they didn't have any, I didn't get any answers, which I just can't believe. The situation today concerning these refugees and migrants is not the same as it was a few years ago when it comes to transiting refugees by route Greece – Macedonia – Serbia – Croatia or they were sitting, coming to Croatia for well-prepared reception centres, sitting in those, on trains and going further towards Western Europe where they were aiming. Today they cannot go any further, today we have a situation that the European Union's border with Bulgaria, Bulgaria and Greece is open to the Western Balkans, and the Croatian border is well guarded and closed from the entry of migrants into Croatia and there is a problem. Today in Bihac and Big Kladhua you have over 4,000 people who are located in objects that are neither adequate nor adequate, and I must say that the Council of Ministers, Minister Mektić, on several occasions, came to the UN-San canton that certain talks were being held, but as usual, as usual and as we see this here today and we see it quite difficult, nothing concrete is happening, nothing in particular is happening that this problem is beginning to solve. Yesterday, in front of our building here, 50 people were protested mostly by the mayors, mayors, councillors from UN-San canton, Bihaća, Cazina, Kladude and other cities, where they wanted, in one way, to put additional pressures on the Council of Ministers, on parliaments to point to the problem that is indeed a terrible problem down there. I think there's a lot of uncertainty here about who's supposed to be doing what's to be done here, who doesn't have a clear picture in the public to be told exactly whose jurisdiction it is, what the municipalities are doing, what the canton is doing, what the entity is doing and what the state is doing. I must say here that the people and citizens of the Unsanitary Canton, all humanitarian organisations, health workers, are making huge efforts to take care of these people as much as possible, but all of this should be seen here by us sitting down here, living down there with these people for a few days to see what a difficult situation this is for the people of the Unsana canton, and for those people of the poor, desperate people who seek salvation from wars, indifference, from poverty and everything else. Here is also the question – is the Municipality of Bihać, is the Unsko-San canton powerful to provide that financial assistance, or is it simply a jurisdiction? Here's a fellow Sifet saying aren't we able to tell our obligations here too if it's an increase in the number of people on, in the border police, so why don't we do it if it's good for all the citizens of this country, why don't we speed it up, why don't we define ourselves that way. I absolutely, here, support Mr. Raguž's proposal, which he said here in his asked question, and I would ask you to wait or somehow call him here so that if this was his, if there was a 33 question, in one conclusion, he would turn both of us home, the Council of Ministers, the people who live downstairs, means that he leads these local communities from canton to municipalities, to come here to a joint session that should have urgent features, to move this issue. I'm afraid if there's no such thing as getting us into problems that just seem to me, they're not taken seriously enough by those people who need to take care of all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4478	Thank you very much. Mr. Mario Karamatić, he has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4479	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I go up to City Hall now and lie on the ice by the bus sleeping, the police officer will come and ask me to give him my ID card or some photo document to determine my identity. And if I say that I don't have it with me, he'll bring me to the police station until he determines my identity, it's the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that's the way it should be. There's a saying in Dalmatia, he says - who's Ćeh to be lost on Velebit. They like mountaineering and now the Čeh is lost on Velebit and moves to Bosnia Grahovo, for example, it is an illegal crossing of the border, it is a hard crime and he will pay a fat fine and probably get a ban on entering Bosnia and Herzegovina for a certain period. On the other hand, we have people who sleep in parks, who absolutely have no documents, none, who have committed a serious crime of illegal border crossing, because I think that migrants, asylum seekers on the fingers of one hand can count who came to Bosnia and Herzegovina's border, apply to a competent official, probably from the border police and say, "Good afternoon, I'm the one and that's why I'm looking for political asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina and give him documents and explain who they're looking for." Who do we accept? We accept Alžirac, Marokance, beware I'm talking about countries that have much higher GDP and a much higher standard of living for Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is not about families that run away from war, Avganistanac, Pakistanac, Syrians, you can choose one hand and question whether they are Sirijac. So here are the attitudes audited in Germany, so after the terrorist attacks, they realized that this was not exactly about those engineers and doctors who were going to help them, but about criminals, former people who were operating in the paramilitary areas, and the most vulnerable situation is right now after the cleansing of Sarajevo for the purpose of Mr. Erdogan's arrival, and most of these people were sent here to Krajina there on this or that point, and there is the most difficult situation. And what's going on? So just open the media, you've already got the dead in accounts between them, you've got attempted rape, you've got burglaries in our citizens' houses, citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. He's gone and people have come, so, without any documents, no one knows who they are, where they're going, what they're doing, they broke into someone's house. And what does the police do? Nothing, ask them out. I propose a conclusion which we will commit to the first row of the Ministry of Security, because this is a matter of security, so this is not a matter of defence, that it is a matter of the Ministry of Defence, not a question of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and in particular it is not a question of the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons formed for our citizens, meaning not for migrants. And all of this gets a little bit into that sphere, and all of the ministries are operating in their part, in the human rights area, in ensuring that these people are helped, to secure everything except the Ministry of Security. I propose a conclusion – that the House of Peoples orders the Minister of Security to start applying Bosnia and Herzegovina's 34-value laws in this country. We don't need new laws, we only need it when an NN person enters Bosnia and Herzegovina and finds himself in Sarajevo, either in Krajina, or in my Posje, although there's really nothing to do down there, so that the police officer can bring him in and keep him to determine his identity, to find out how he entered, whether he committed a crime, to get him an adequate sentence for what he did and for a criminal offence to drive him out of our country, to bring him back to the country of origin and where he should be returned. Because if we continue to play some good Samaritanca point, so what do you think will happen when these people, here in Bihac, the Great Cladus, Buzhi, Cazin, by the official estimates you have 4,000 migrants, count at least 50% more of those, so I'm talking about the estimates of the MUP, 50% of the people who are not registered, what happens when they're out of food, when they're left. I was at the Azilant Center of Trnovo, I didn't see any families with children. I've seen guys from about 20 to 30 years old, I've seen footage of these migrants walking around, there's recently been an attempt to cross over to Izačić, these poor refugees walking in military formation, someone explain it to me. I was an active participant in the past war, I know some basic movements and means migrants walk in military formations. What are we playing with? Do we need us to get stuck here, all this stuff that the esteemed colleagues have said is a fact, they're coming here now no one's going to. Why won't they? Well, because they've pissed who it is, it's not a problem, I don't think there's anyone in this hall, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, anyone from any people or members who don't plead to any of the constitutive people, who doesn't have a drink to a child or a woman or an old man who runs from war, but this isn't about people who run from war. This is about, number one, economic migrants, and it's about people running from the laws that rule in their country. So I'm just calling for us to adopt a conclusion calling on the Ministry of Security to inform the competent police agencies of county, entity, border police, co-ordination for police bodies, etc. to apply these people to the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to behave accordingly. He doesn't know his identity, you lock him up in Zenica, in Foč, so he's got a new, beautiful prison in East Sarajevo, so let's fill him up, and we'll get us a dry daily meal. We've had discussions here how the poor army is constantly eating cans, that cans are too extra, someone ordered too much, we have them as soon as we feed them until we determine identity and while we deport them, because there are no people looking for protection from Bosnia and Herzegovina because of political or any other persecution. More than 9,000 migrants have been registered in the Foreign Affairs Service in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the last period, we have 600 requests for citizenship, and out of those 600, 500 have already spread over the border one way or another. And what are we doing here, what about those six, seven, ten gigs of people we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina? And I think the only way to comply with Bosnia and Herzegovina's laws is by now. I'm just looking for what's worth for Maria Karamatić to be valid for any migrant and please, means to adopt that conclusion, to vote on him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4480	Thank you very much. Mr. Sredoje Nović has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4481	Everything's nice what we're saying, but to whom. First of all, there's really no one from the promoters that would expect a man a little bit and that, here, these discussions that, vague questions to ask, to get information about what the situation is, the real state there right now in Krajina. We won't be satisfied with the information from five, six months ago. So let's get people to realize that there's really a need for a proposing. I don't believe that anyone here thinks we shouldn't, if you think we can discuss all these discussions so we don't get any answers, no conversation that we don't have, so I don't know what to say if nobody hears it. I also respect what Karamatić said and this conclusion, all of it is fine, but that conclusion will take place while it goes down the written path to the Council of Ministers, to the resolution ministry, etc. time goes by again, so don't let us play, really play parliamentaryism in this country with issues like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4482	Thank you very much. Did you suggest we postpone this debate? You didn't suggest anything, okay. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on Information. The vote was attended by 13 delegates – for it was 6.4 against, 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 6 for, without votes against, 3 abstentions. Republika Srpska -- without votes to, 4 against, without abstentions. There is a general majority there is no entity. We're going with the second round of voting. The vote was attended by 13 delegates – for it was 6.4 against, 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 6 for, without votes against and 3 abstentions. Republika Srpska -- without votes to, 4 against, without abstentions. There is no general majority, therefore, of the entity majority, which is to conclude that the information on the implementation of the Emergency Action Plan and the implementation of the activities listed in the Information on the evaluations and possibilities of Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding the issue of the refugee crisis in the region and the European Union and the review of the situation in connection with the Western Balkan route's migration crisis has not been taken into account. Mr. Karamatić, do you have any conclusions in writing? Mario
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4483	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4484	Are you staying at your conclusion? Mario
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4485	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4486	You can read it a little louder so everyone can hear it. _________(?) And in all three languages. All three languages.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4488	I don't know if I'm gonna make it on all three, and we're gonna make some... It undertakes the Ministry of Security to inform competent police agencies to start applying 36 applicable laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina applicable to all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4489	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Raguž has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4490	Thank you, Mr. President, for giving me a word and an apology, but I really had to be outside for not answering earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4491	Just to warn you, we've closed the debate, if you have anything to do with this conclusion of the gentleman.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4492	Just with... about the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4493	Yeah, so, so, here you go. Martin
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4494	Because I announced it, which, if you remember, to hold a joint session of both Houses of Parliament on this subject and to propose to the House of Peoples the College of the House of Representatives that the session be organised until, before the start of the election campaign and in agreement with the Council of Ministers. I think that's one rational conclusion, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4495	Me, can you deliver that in writing?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4496	No problem, here's what you'll read what I'll read in writing, if I have to do it again. So, the conclusion – The House of Peoples concludes that a joint session of both homes is being held and that it will agree with the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly on the subject of the migrant crisis....
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4497	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. I'm putting Mr. Karamatić's proposal to the vote. 37 The vote was attended by 13 delegates – for there were 9, no votes against, four abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 6 for, without votes against and 3 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 3 for, without votes against and 1 abstention. There is a general majority, there is an ethnic majority, so I find that Mr Karamatić's proposal for a conclusion has received the necessary majority. We put to the vote Mr. Martin Raguž's proposal to hold a joint session of two homes and the Council of Ministers. We'll approach the vote. Can we vote on Mr. Karamatić's proposal, on Mr. Raguž's proposal? (?) [[no microphone turned on]] We voted on Mr. Kramatić's proposal for, his conclusion. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4500	We're just voting on Martin's conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4501	About Martin's, okay. Is there any need to vote now? There's no need to vote. Okay. We're moving to point 12. Don't be late again, Mr. Raguž. Ad. 12. Information on the project PRO-Future and Peace Platforms, applicant: BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02-37-1671/17 since 11.07.2017 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Commission adopted the text of the Peace Platreform, which supports the implementation of activities aimed at strengthening peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the region, and recommends that the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives adopt the Peace Platform. The House of Representatives adopted the Peace Platform at the 62nd session, held on 31.05., 20.06. and 05.07.2018. 38 I give the word to a representative of the Joint Commission at a session of the House of Peoples. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on Information on the project PRO-Future. The vote was attended by 13 delegates -- 11 for no votes against, 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 9 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 2 for, without votes against and 2 abstentions. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, so I find that the Information on the PRO-Future Project has been received into knowledge. We're talking about the Peace Platform. The vote was attended by 13 delegates – for there were 11, with no votes against and 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 9 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 2 for, without votes against and 2 abstentions. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists, I'm finding the Peace Platform adopted. Moving to point 13. Ad. 13. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, Proposer: College of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1-1382/18 since 27.07.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4505	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course I support all these ratification agreements and what's little to me, so here we are, and funny, so when we have something to do with the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the damage, I think, needs to be reacted quickly, and then there should be some priorities, here in the work of certain ministries, and if we have constant problems that are constantly causing us millions of damage, then what causes millions of damage should be at the top of each ministry's work priorities. Here I specifically think of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, so I'll mention the situation when we had a few months ago, so the apple export scandal in Russia, when we lost it, when one of the citizens who had once been transferred by a public authority signed a certificate that the apples from Poland came from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the exporter was so lazy to take off the stick, so we got it, so the minister ran there through Russia, brought them here to sort of iron it out and let's go, somehow lost millions and millions or hundreds of thousands of thousands of dollars, it doesn't matter how much, the apples have bent, the pears have bent. Now that the season is over, that's who we can re-export our apples there, and that NGO is still under no control, but it's another story. Well, then we have, we have a situation that Bosnia and Herzegovina is caused by nothing, and it's really not our fault, it's in the middle of a trade war, and then the Amerikanac are starting to introduce themselves to Europe, Europe is going to introduce everyone else, we're of course falling among others, and it's going to start customs on steel, on aluminium, not that it's going to do millions of damage to the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it can lead to the collapse of certain areas, here I mean, specifically, on Zenica where we have iron, I mean, specifically, on Zvornik, on Mostar, where there's a processing of aluminium and boxing ores. And what's going on? The competent ministry sends us a bat protection agreement, my sincere congratulations to the minister, here's when last year we managed to protect the lions, the tigers, the last one I think we've protected the whales, it's time to protect the bats, and that's what we're going to bring prosperity to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, I support the protection of these little animals, but I am deeply saddened by the fact that we have no proposal from the competent minister of what when the Alumini fails, when the Birač fails, 40 when the Zvornik fails, when the Zeljezar in Zenica fails or that's not his problem, he only seems to be dealing with animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-07-27-0.u4506	Thank you very much, Mr. Karamatić. We don't have any more logs. We vote on granting consent for ratification of the agreement, memorandum, contract and amendment to the contract from 14th to 25th points, including point 25. 13 delegates joined the vote -- for 13, no votes against and no abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 9 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we agreed to ratify the agreement, the memorandum, the contract and the amendment to the deal from 14th to 25th points, including the point of the 25th agenda. This concludes the 41st session. Dear colleagues and colleagues on the date of the next session will be notified afterwards. Thank you very much. Session completed at 12:38 p.m.
