ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4507	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, honored guests, I warmly welcome you and open the 42nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting by the BiH presidency and members of the BiH Presidency; the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers; representatives of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives and representatives of international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly monitor the work of our House. The session is attended by 14 delegates, 5 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 4 from the Serbian people. For today's session, the absence was justified by delegate Nebojša Radmanović. As indicated in your call for a session in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, delegates are allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 42nd session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 42nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Rule 156 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, delegate Zdenka Džambas, BiH Council of Minister Denis Zvizdić, delegate Mario Karamatić, as chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers Denis Zvizdić, delegate Martin Raguž for Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Minister Dragan Mektić, submitted an announcement to the delegation to ask delegates in oral form. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this announcement, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the member of the BiH Council of Ministers have been delivered to the Council of Ministers. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public Television Service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now you can start asking oral delegate questions and giving answers. I give my word to delegate Zdenka Džambas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4508	I welcome my fellow envoys, ministers and everyone else in the O.R. I repeat the question of the last time because I was not given, and the question was – what regulations are being established, that is, the issue of national pleas in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina? 2 Last time I explained this, since I do not know what the rules were, and it was most at the time that the candidates who will be on the 2018 election lists were applied, and in what way the rules check out what is being done and how who wrote what is by nationality, which means the Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and ostali. I didn't find any regulations that could possibly be checked, especially since we have the results of the 2013 census where citizens freely pleaded for their nationality. In all other normal countries, you can't change it from list to list, so 10 years. With us, it changes from choice to choice. Here, I'm interested in the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4509	Thank you very much. The word has been given by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4510	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome the respected leadership of the House of Peoples, members, present media, guests and my colleagues from the Council of Ministers of BiH. This issue, of course, is not within the authority of the BiH Council of Ministers, it is in the jurisdiction of the entities and Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina because that area is governed by rules on parent books. When it comes to the Federation of BiH, it is about the Law on Parent Books, which prescribes that nationality will be entered in the birth certificate or will not be entered at the request of an authorised applicant. The entity Republika Srpska is subject to the Law on the birth books of Republika Srpska, which prescribes that the parent book registers nationality and religion, and finally for the Brcko District is about the parent books of the Brcko District where nationality and religion are also recorded. The Federal Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Administration and the Local Self-Government of Republika Srpska for the Entity of Republika Srpska and the Public Register of the Government of the Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina are responsible for the implementation of these laws, and these are actually institutions that should provide an answer that is related to the possibility of preventing the abuse of national declaration for political purposes, because they are solely in charge of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4511	Thank you very much. Is the delegate satisfied with the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4512	I understand this part where nationality is entered, but here is a concrete example, there is the defence minister, so you know exactly what number of soldiers is from the order of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and others. A tender is being opened, she says, she receives, I don't know, 200 soldiers of Croatian nationality and now she logs in, it's just important that she writes there that she is a Hrvat, and whether or not he is not at all important because no one, I ask, means no one can check in any way, here's a minister who can't, in what way to check whether there's been an abuse. That part of me is not the same as the elections, so I understand that it's in the Federation, that it's on entities, but what it is when it's in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, when it's known exactly and it's determined that someone has to be specific nationalities for a job or, here, for elections. We still don't have it why it is and who can't control it at the Statistics Agency. I'm not happy. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4513	Thank you very much. I give my word to delegate Mario Karamatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4514	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for coming to the meeting, several times it happened that I had a question for him that he wasn't, but it was due to obligations, not as it was with other ministers to avoid the issue and thank you again for that. What I'm interested in, and that's what I was saying at the last session, - which is why the envoys at the House of Peoples don't get answers from the Council of Ministers? So you're bound by the law to secure it. Now let's not list a variety of ministries that I don't get answers from, and there's plenty of them. I am interested in a concrete question that I asked you as president more than half a year ago – what are the personnel responsible for which Bosnia and Herzegovina has paid for schooling, I am talking exclusively about state level, and who are the benefits for Bosnia and Herzegovina by getting these various party earrings paid for their master's degree, doctorate, how much has this improved Bosnia and Herzegovina's work? Since you're here, I would ask you to try to answer me if you're able to – why is the Council of Ministers, mildly speaking, not carrying out the conclusions of the House of Peoples? As far as I am aware of the procedures, we as a legislative authority if we adopt the Council of Ministers' conclusion as executive authority is required to implement it, however it does not happen. Here, that's what interests me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4515	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvizdić, the chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4516	Thank you, of course, to the honourable representative. As for today's session, I was given a completely different question by a respected representative who was involved in the Directorate for indirect taxation and was prepared by the Director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation. As for yours, and we will deliver it to you in writing, and as for your findings that we do not implement the conclusions of the House of Peoples, I do not think there is any conclusion to the House of People that the Council of Ministers has so far not realised if it is in the power of the Council of Ministers of BiH and if it is enforceable in accordance with the applicable laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that we are really very serious and carefully always committed to the conclusions of both parliaments, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and this is our priority at each meeting of the Council of Ministers for Response to, in particular, the conclusions of the College or the conclusions of one or another House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Here's the question about these customs terminals, prepared by the director of the indirect tax administration, we'll deliver you in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4517	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4518	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Just before the session, I received an answer from the Directorate for Direct Taxation and, of course, it proved that I was right, that only in, at two border crossings in Herzegovina were paid, and a detour for the transport of empty trucks, i.e.. in Gorica and Biacha. I got it, I wanted it to be abolished after my initiative, not to start charging businesses at other border crossings, but it's Bosnia and Herzegovina when it costs money in the budget to rip off the skin from which you can, in this case with the businessmen. I know that no amendments to the Electoral Law have been passed, and I intend to sit here until further notice and wait for answers to the questions I have asked earlier, including the merits of the Bosnia and Herzegovina personnel paid for by the state of education. So that's what I'm really interested in, and I believe it's a public interest. I've been waiting more than half a year for that. As for implementation, I must point out that, I don't know, two years ago, this distinguished House adopted conclusions that define and require the Council of Ministers to resolve the Law on Public TV Service. It wasn't done, that Law wasn't here before us, so there's no respect for what we adopt here. Before, I don't know, two sessions were adopted my conclusion to start applying the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina to those who are illegally entering this country, popularly called migrants, nothing has been done about it. If I didn't count further, it could be a week, so it's simply not true that the Council of Ministers is carrying out the conclusions of the House of Peoples. However, the truth is that very often, and there have been enough speeches in this hall, members of the Council of Ministers do not feel at all appropriate to come to the House of Peoples session at all, and...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4519	Time, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4520	where to spend our conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4521	Thank you. Mr. Martin Raguž, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4522	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed present, Mr. President of the Council, the honourable members and members of the Council of Ministers. I am also forced to repeat the question from last session of the House of Peoples. Here in the record, just to be clear, the House Chairman said that the issue of envoy Martin Raguž will be left for the next House session due to the opacity of the Ministry of Security's representatives from the House of People's session. So my question was – What are the current and what are the long-term security consequences for Bosnia and Herzegovina thanks to this kind of migrant crisis and the epicenter that has been experienced in Bosnia and Herzegovina? So today I repeat the question, and the same situation is repeated, as far as I can see, there's no one from the Ministry of Security, not a minister or a deputy. And since this is the question of how it was at the time, it may be even more current, and tomorrow it will be more unfortunately even more current, I would like to remind the Rules of Procedure, where the questions which we as envoys are referring to are being delivered to the Secretary-General and to the 5 Chair of the Council of Ministers, so if the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers can answer this question, because I see that these days the Council of Ministers have been dealing officially with this issue, it would be good, and if not, I will only briefly remind myself, that I am not repeating, that there are really serious reasons to get an institutional response, especially in this high House, and because of the various doubts and dilemmas and problems that arise from the depravity of the border to the insufficient number of border police officers, to the excessive inflows which are unregistered, to poor coordination, that I call it so mildly, the state institutions with the local community, to the security challenges, to the issue, to the issue of Bosnia's goal and to the goal of Bosnia. That's what we're supposed to get in these months of those answers. It's not my fault that this is under way in the election campaign, I asked that question in time, and I have no intention of getting political points, but I think this is too serious to be answered in two regular sessions of the House of Nations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4523	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Unfortunately, the minister, and as far as I can see, his deputy is not even present at today's session. We'll keep working. For the 42nd session, I propose the following amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 41st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Report from the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, issue: 01,02-06-1004/18, since 18.04.2018; 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: delegate Halid Genjac, number: 02-02-1028/18, as of 20.04.2018, consideration by a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 123. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-668/18, since 10.07.2018, consideration by a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 123. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples; 5. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Second Monitoring Report on the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015. - 2019 and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015. - 2019, the Agency's material for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of Anti-Corruption Fight, issue: 05/8-04-601/18, dated 26.02.2018; 6. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption for the period 01.01 to 31.12.2017, issue: 05/8-04-785/18, from 20.03.2018; 7. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Saudi Development Fund – Construction and Reconstruction of a number of hospitals in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-05-2-1902/18, since 17.08.2018; 8. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Saudi Development Fund – The development of infrastructure in the Municipality of Stari Grad, Sarajevo, issue: 01,02-05-2-2014/18, since 04/09/2018 6 This is a harmonised agenda of the College of the People's House. Is anyone answering for a word, is there a change and a supplement? I don't see any applications. I therefore conclude that we have adopted the agenda as proposed by the College. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 41st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Martin Raguž, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4525	Thank you. So, about the record from last session, relating to point 11. Information on the implementation of the Emergency Action Plan and the implementation of the activities listed in the Information on the evaluations and possibilities of Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding the issue of the refugee crisis in the region and the review of the situation in connection with the Western Balkan route's migrant crisis, and Dom adopted certain conclusions. One of those conclusions I suggested in writing and it was accepted without any vote against. In this record, it's not exactly interpreted, so I answered the word. The House concluded, so the House of Peoples concludes that the House in agreement with the House of Representatives should hold a joint session of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly on the topic of the refugee crisis by the end of August this year. So today is 9/11, it's been eight months, that session hasn't been held. Secondly, in my Opinion and the proposal I made, it was written to do so in agreement with the Council of Ministers. Those words are missing and I pray that in the Book of Corrections, and then that is the full conclusion that we have adopted. And since I have already answered this question, I think it is truly unwarranted that this House has not respected this conclusion, because without respecting its own conclusions that we will expect other institutions to respect Parliament's and this House's conclusions. And I think that the College has a responsibility to unannounce this session before the start of the election campaign as we have concluded, and ladies and gentlemen are putting a rock in one mosaic, and that's why our institutions are like this, so we lose citizens' confidence in the institutions, and so people are slowly packing their suitcases and mating their roots. So let's just know that we're all responsible for this together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4526	Thank you very much. We'll supplement this technical supplement according to how you said it. As far as the conclusion is concerned, he was sent to the Joint College of both homes. Does anyone else have a word about the zapisnik? If there is no vote on the 41st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with this technical supplement that Mr Raguž has just proposed. 7 There are 14 delegates present, for there were 14, without votes against and without abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 10 for, without votes against and without abstentions, Republika Srpska – 4 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that the minutes of the 41st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Report from the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, issue: 01,02-06-1004/18, since 18/04/2018 A European Commission Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018 was received. The House of Representatives adopted three conclusions at its 62nd session, held on 31 May, 20 June and 5 July 2018. I give my word to a representative of the Joint Commission at a session of the House of Peoples. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Martin Raguž has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4528	Ma, I expected the chairman of the Council of Ministers to say something, this is a pretentious item on the agenda last time we didn't discuss it because he wasn't there and I think it would be logical that at the end of the term, the parliamentary majority, who took responsibility, said its assessment of the European Commission's report. It would make sense to me, and now each one is determined in the way he thinks. And I wouldn't, uh, be longer because I can see that we don't have much motive to discuss this important issue today, and I just want to say something, and I've only reported for it. So we hear different interpretations of Bosnia and Herzegovina's success in implementing reforms and its dynamics and quality on the European pathway. And this is both logical and legitimate in view of which the position is emerging, what one stands for, but mostly the Council of Ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers used very often the rhetoric that this is the most successful Council of Ministers and that this is the most successful part in the European process. It would take some serious and long discussion, and I'm not going to open this topic today. Certainly there were good things and certainly good things, therefore, that good things should be affirmed, but also, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot cover the rhetorical and flossulas of the European path and successes while the public scene is such that it dominates political employment, that you cannot be employed thanks to the knowledge and education and quality beyond party interest cards and that this is one of the main reasons why young people leave Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've seen indicators these days, and let's not cover ourselves with the Reform Agenda while this situation with public tenders, conflicts of interest, blocks of major projects, and I'll just tell you that for three years the funds on the European corridor have been blocked because of the tenders that we've been assigned in the way that we've been assigned and we have this one situation, we have, therefore, one other side of this story. The European path is a second story, competition of knowledge, skills and projects, equality before the law, and the time will come, I am convinced, not because we are able not to overestimate ourselves, to be true partners in accepting these European values, but because geopolitical reasons will rule that this equality will finally prevail before the law and the rule of law. It will be agonizing 8 but it will last, so also the evaluations of the Eurupan Commission, which are very often bureaucratic and standardised and shematized, cannot cover all these processes, but after the election I believe the time will come for us all to deal more seriously with this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4529	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. The word has Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4530	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm glad that the European Commission's report confirmed what I've been saying in this House for years and I'm not going to go too far, so I should be reading it all day, I'm going to stick to two items alone, and that's what the European Commission report says, is fighting terrorism and legal and illegal immigration. The European Commission report, among other things, says that a total of 323 people from Bosnia and Herzegovina have gone to Iran and Syria, means 323 people, and says that a total of 23 returnees from foreign wars have been indicted and later convicted of crimes in connection with terrorism, okay. It is further said, what I also often say, that fines are mild and based on plea bargains, so it is specifically about a man who was a member of ISIL in Syria or other paramilitary formations coming back to Bosnia and Herzegovina, reaching a plea deal with the prosecution, means that he participated in the establishment of an Islamic state in the area of Iraq and Levanta, the deal gets a year in prison, that's interesting how in Bosnia and Herzegovina everything with the money can be settled, it's paid to the court or to some sub-account and he's free. And then when it's 10-15 days our police force stops him at the American Embassy and says he's loaded with weapons, and he says, well, it's not a lot of weapons, he says, don't let me show you what a lot of guns are. And then again make a deal with the D.A. and so on. So that's Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have a serious problem with terrorism. I remind you, in this session of the Council of Ministers and this respected House of People, we have had two terrorist attacks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, at least two. I think there were more of them, because I consider it a terrorist attack to attempt to liquidate the commander of the Armed Forces in the tunnel at Mostar, but it is a violation, so it's an accidental incident that someone before the commander of the BiH Armed Forces in the tunnel throws an explosive device that damages concrete and August, our prosecution concludes it's a violation. So it's a violation similar to when you throw a cigar chip on the street, pay the fine and fine. Secondly, as regards illegal migration, it stands precisely in the Report of the European Commission – the current regulations and agreements enable effective and voluntary, and I stress, and the forced return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin and it is necessary to ensure their implementation fully. A little further in the text, if I were to repeat this to you, in order for someone not to forget, means valid regulations and agreements allow effective and voluntary, and forced return, and forced return, and a little further back in the text, have now been remembered by all, yes, no case of forced distance or return has been reported, none. So we don't have any problems with illegal migrants until you go to Krajina or before Mr. Erdogan comes through Sarajevo. However, after honouring Minister Mektić has cleaned Sarajevo's municipally from migrants, he sent them to Krajina and part to Hercegovina, there is no more Sarajevo problem with migrants but has Krajina. And in this House, I insisted that a conclusion, adopted, be applied illegally to persons who are illegally staying in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have violated the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, cross the border illegally, apply the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Nothing's going on, I haven't seen any movement on that road. Why hasn't anyone been forced back? Well, we could have seen it in the media of the interlocks, 9 I think, I think that the transfers of the State Agency for Investigations and Protection brought in a gentleman, I'm not going to say the name would not have been correct, which was the Deputy Directorate for Foreign Affairs, which means that it is solely responsible for migrants, for forced return, etc. Now, here's the press and you colleagues just wonder who the director was at the time and why there's no forced return of migrants today, if there's any tariffs, the price of how these people can stay here, that's all the questions I'm interested in. Which is why we don't have any applications out of this great fight against corruption, which is why the D.A., the courts are holding reports in drawers, which is why I've talked about it more than once here. So, I personally filed criminal charges against certain members of the Council of Ministers for whom I received two years after my emergency response from the Prosecutor's Office that they had not yet heard or heard from anyone against whom I filed applications, where I provided 24 evidence and explained the application on 24 pages. And then they ask me, if you know of any illegality to whom to... why don't you report it? Well, here, I filed a criminal report. Who do I file a criminal report with? Well, I file a criminal report just for those prosecutors and judges who put certain policies in those positions and believe me, they're willing to die, but they're not ready to take it out of the drawer. And with this kind of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with this kind of fight against corruption, with this kind of fight against illegal migration, I can tell all the peoples and citizens who do not plead as one of the constitutional peoples of this country, be afraid, have reason to be afraid of this kind of government, with this kind of prosecution, with this kind of Parliament, with these directives and agencies, you have reason to be afraid, and among other things it says in the European Commission Report. Thank you. DENIS
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4531	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4532	You want us to run out of questions, so eventually you might? Here, Mr. Sredoje Nović called, and then we'll give you our word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4533	Honored chairman, distinguished delegates, delegates, respected chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers and ministers. If this report had happened a year ago, then it would have really needed to be discussed very widely, he commented. And you know, when a man reads all of this like this, when we know where this country is, there's nothing to be surprised about. It seems to me that the European Commission has been on a good footing, not to say completely, detecting where the problems and weaknesses in this Bosnia and Herzegovina are. Mostly, as much as we liked it or didn't like it, they realized it was the problems of the ruling coalition. And there's not one here, it seems to me here today, or anywhere, that someone can challenge what's in this document. Why is that, it's already another question and we'd probably have to go back a few years, so let's just wonder why it's really like that. And when we listen to many of our people at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina talking about successes, what is it all, miracles made, sometimes it seems to me that they never read that bass when the fox had young ones, so one little question – Majka, is Mom, does any of us have a nicer and smarter one? And she looks and says: "There is a son who is clothed with our skin." That's how it looks to me that we behave in this country. It is very good if we want to read, to speak, see, the European Commission says that the work of the Presidency has been influenced by the fact that the members of the Presidency's dissuasive views on a number of foreign policy issues have been expressed. Is there anything else to add? If we are in Bosnia and Herzegovina so different that the Presidency on a series of issues, so not on two or three issues, 10 cannot achieve even roughly the same attitudes, then I guess we all know what the foreign policy of this country is. The implementation of reforms, they say, was delayed due to a lack of agreement between members of the ruling coalition. Of course, in one part, I would disagree where they say that, I agree in the part where it says – tensions among the ruling coalition parties, but says – the obstruction of opposition parties in Parliament have affected the adoption of the reform agenda law. Well, it's people, I guess, totally incorrect. Had it not been for opposition parties, would those laws have been passed? Well, don't we remember so much here in the hearing and in the Representative's office that I'm not talking about who supported those laws? Supported by the opposition, the opposition's votes passed those laws, on public administration, also everything that was. But I am glad because of those who already have parrots saying that Republika Srpska is constantly obstructing, it is not for the journey to Europe, etc., etc., because there is no numbered party here to tell you on which side it writes very precisely, that the Republika Srpska government has continued to prepare the regulations of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Reform Agenda, the voluntary pension fund has begun working as the first of its kind in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republika Srpska government has started an ambitious reform programme for the restructuring of its railways, the entity has continued to work on harmonising its health with... The EU has developed its own methodology of implantation, which provides for the government to adopt annual action plans, etc., etc. Isn't this the kind of approach the government of Republika Srpska wants in the European Union? I don't see what could be here, and if anyone has the right to say they're obstructing. But there is also an excellent finding here where co-ordination is said to be necessary in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and with entities and that it is the only right path towards the country's future. What particularly tickled me, of course, we could now ask those who put together this report, which is a positive progress in the judiciary, in which it is positive progress in the fight against organised crime, against corruption. There they say – strategies have been adopted, plans have been adopted, etc., which, of course, is one of the significant factors, but it is paper. It's paper, we have to fight organized crime, corporation, fight for real. But you see, what the finding is, I don't know if this is about ignorance, so it could be forgiven, but if this is consciously written, proactive investigations that begin with police action under the leadership of the Intelligence Service. Please, where is this regulation that says the Intelligence Agency is an investigation? Now that's what we keep forgetting that we can't change the thesis that way. Intelligence is, clearly to all of us, very, so it's called intelligence, so it collects data and gives to competent agencies, or prosecutors, but it's not the one to conduct investigations. Whether it's meant to be, perhaps, this one to say that she should be given police authority or not, I don't want to conclude it that way. And what's further important here is this passage, the police should act more, they say, on their own initiative. Seriously, this is a matter for people in security and security who need to analyze what it means. And I agree with that, we've completely got the police out of that initiative, out of her freedom, out of the commo, so she can take certain measures and actions, and we're just relying on what the prosecutor says. We have a total of, say, 10, 20, 50 or 100 prosecutors, and you have 16,000 cops, at least from what's standing here. Still, they say we need to, in a structured way, improve the mechanism of co-operation between the police and the D.A., so that we don't tell you any more about the DNA database, so access to the data, so exchange of fingerprints, and exchange of forensic data, etc., etc. All those who are taking part in the executive government today, especially in the security segment, would have to take a good look at this and say: something needs to be changed here in the legislative process, whether it's in the police, whether it's in the prosecutor's office, if it's somewhere else, if we want to step or two forward. So I think we really need to analyze this well, all of this report, and let's say that for the future, here, this is already ending, as they say, this election session, and 11 after the election is obviously going to have to think well at the level of this Bosnia and Herzegovina as quickly as we can, more strongly, we can move forward together. If we continue like this, it seems to me that Bog is my way into Europe, my way into reverse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4534	Thank you, Mr. Nović. You have timed this discussion in a second, congratulations. Mr. Zvizdić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4535	Thank you very much. I will only give a brief explanation that because of the media and the public would not get the wrong impression of certain parts of the discussion and of the respected representative Karamatić and the respected representative Nović. So, to the end, we need to read what it says in the report itself when we talk about some very important, sensitive and sensitive topics, especially when it comes to fighting terrorism. Therefore, the correct allegation, given that Mr Karamatić only read part of the sentence, is the following – according to official data for 181 men, 61 women and 81 children with citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is believed to have travelled to Syria and Iraq from Bosnia and Herzegovina and from the diaspora between December 2012 and December 2015. So, December '12. and December '15. What we, as the Council of Ministers, are particularly proud of, and I congratulate the police and intelligence agencies and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is that the departure of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been halted in the last three years to foreign wars, and that unlike the various incorrect statements we have heard in our region, dozens or 10,000 warriors have returned from Syria. 46 people have returned to Bosnia and Herzegovina, of which, of course, half the men, half the mothers and children, of whom 23 returnees from foreign wars have been accused and convicted of crimes in connection with terrorism in accordance with our law. Therefore, one of the greatest successes is the fight against terrorism and the preservation of peace and stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is why we are the best in the Western Balkans region, although neighbours often try to throw the Stigm right at the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina using unargued, irrelevant data. These are the relevant data that I have just now presented to you, the data behind which we stand as institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and behind which are all international institutions, from EUROPOL, and beyond which we have very correct and daily communications. When we talk about migrants, it was also necessary to make it very clear from the report that Bosnia and Herzegovina has ratified readmission agreements with the European Union, with all the countries of the Western Balkans and Turkey, as well as implementation protocols with 16 EU member states. And in accordance with such acts, we're doing a person's readmission, including illegal migrants. Since the beginning of the year, we have read more than 800 migrants into neighbouring countries, primarily in Serbia and Montenegro, and as far as illegal migrants are concerned, we will remain attached to three basic guidelines: 1. Human relations with people who are in trouble and are therefore seeking salvation from their countries, because Bosnia had a similar situation 25 years ago. 2. We'll respect international standards. That means when someone comes to our border and asks for international protection to get it. 12 3. We will continue to act in accordance with domestic laws, which is the Law on Foreigners and the Law on Asylum which says – when a person asks, he shows his intention for asylum, that he has the right to stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 14 days until he is put in the asylum procedure. So, of these three specifics, we will not, of course, step down and we will not immediately lead the people entering Bosnia and Herzegovina to criminal and correctional institutions or prisons, as proposed and as the individuals suggested. As for the discussion of the respected representative Nović, the only thing I can agree on is that indeed individual discussions would be interesting for the Grim brothers, and for La Fonten, for bass and fairy tales, because of course it is not correct if someone who was a member of the Council of Ministers at a time when the European road was completely blocked, when even a millimeter was not made on the path of European integration, is now criticising the current coalition. Therefore, all you need to do is answer simple questions, when has the Stabilisation and Association Agreement entered into force, during the term of office of this coalition or during the term of office of the last coalition? So, at the time of the term of office of this coalition. When did we submit an application for membership, at the time of the last coalition or during this Council of Ministers? Well, at the time of this Council of Ministers. When was the Economic Reform Agenda adopted? Of course, at the time of this Council of Ministers and the highest level of implementation of the European Economic Reform Agenda, this has just been achieved by the Council of Ministers, over 82%. When were four key strategies adopted that caused Bosnia and Herzegovina to lose only 400m euros of grants in the past term? So they were adopted by the Council of Ministers for which we returned 400 million, 400 million, through the Berlin process of additional 660 million investments and 120 million grants and provided over 1,200,000 euros in funding for various projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina. When was the Coordination Mechanism adopted, in the past term or in this Council of Ministers' term? In this term of office of the Council of Ministers. When has the European Union questionnaire been realised with over 20,000 pages, in the past term or in this Council of Ministers' term? So in this Council of Ministers' term. While all the countries in the neighbourhood were granted the candidate status of Bosnia and Herzegovina by 2012, of course, until this Council of Ministers was in complete blockade of the European road and European integration. So this Council of Ministers together with other institutions, entities and, of course, other state institutions realised all their commitments from the European Agenda and brought Bosnia and Herzegovina at the threshold of obtaining candidate status. At the same time, as regards the security situation, we made remarkable progress because we found Bosnia and Herzegovina on gray and black lists and Manival and FATF, so this Council of Ministers together with entity governments realised all obligations and took down Bosnia and Herzegovina from Manival and FATF, which allowed normal payment traffic to our businesses and our diaspora. Which Council of Ministers adopted all necessary strategies to combat crime, corruption, terrorism, etc., integrated border management? This is exactly what the Council of Ministers has done, including all the necessary strategies, the start of reform of the legal system and, of course, all other necessary strategies that have brought us significantly closer to the European Union. So, it should be spoken correctly, of course, that things are not finished, much reform still stands before us, but speaking in a way that nothing has been done in this mandate, of course, is not even correct, but the facts are also quite different. We always speak, as the Council of Ministers, with the power of arguments rather than any arguments of manipulation or spins trying to place themselves in the local public.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4536	Thank you very much. 13 Mr. Sredoje Nović, the correction of the false quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4537	I don't know, it seems to me to me that the chairman of the Council of Ministers that you want to ban anyone in this House from saying anything if he's ever done a duty before. It's not right at least, you have no right to do that. What I've been doing and how I've been doing is being evaluated, not you, to evaluate my work on the Council of Ministers now. It doesn't belong to you, I'm a delegate here. Don't ever try to worship me again. Secondly, everything I've read here, the record stands, not a word you've said there, and you attribute to me, I haven't spoken. I was just reading and quoting what it says in this report. You can take a look, take a look and read it. And don't tell me I didn't read it, don't take it for granted. I respect your position, I respect that it is yours and that you defend the Council of Ministers, and I respect that, and you defend it. And all right, but don't give me any credit for saying something that you said there. I was just quoting the provisions that say here. If I'm that, I shouldn't have, okay, then I can apologize to this House for breaking my powers. I'm really asking you to be correct with each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4538	Thank you very much. Mr. Mario Karamatić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4539	Thank you. Well, here it is, clear that, as Mr. Zvizić said, that there would be no misreading of the public, so I'm all I've said is factually correct. I said 323 persons from Bosnia and Herzegovina, with Bosnian Herzegovina citizenship... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] With Bosnian Herzegovic citizenship, okay. Now, you've factored it in like that, so, the truth is, it says, I was saying it a little bit shorter, more summed up, because Mr. Softić is going to take away my word, unlike you, as soon as I'm out of time, that's how it is. What you have suggested to the President in this address is that I am committed to bringing these unfortunate people, these migrants into some, as you called them, criminal and correctional institutions, etc., I have two minutes left, I will be able to force them into it, one of my friends, Ante... at the beginning of my political career told me – drag Mario, says, who learns to drive under rotations, only you can get him out of position. I suggest Zvizdić stop driving under rotations, sit in your vehicle and start from Sarajevo to Mostar, a beautiful city in Herzegovina, and don't take your personal license, and don't take your driver's license, and don't take your vehicle papers and you'll see how you'll pass when you're stopped by by an employee of the Ministry of the Interior. And I ask that, I ask that, to persons who illegally enter Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have no documents, who cannot prove who they are, be treated as they would have treated me or anyone here, except for the chairman of the Council of Ministers and one of the members of the Presidency, according to whom the police have a completely different approach. So I'm asking that if a person comes and says I'm called... and asks for asylum, and there are no documents that 14 can confirm, that it is approved, of course, by those 14 days, but that it is not allowed to land. I don't know if you know where you live, if you're so out of line, migrants break into houses, slaughter each other, stab each other with a knife, our D.A. behaves like a sports fishing society, bring in, take pictures, and let go. Well, we can't let that happen. This is where the security of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina is at stake, not the safety of migrants. In Krajina people live under the terror of migrants, in Mostar live under the terror of migrants, in Salakovec live under the terror of migrants, no matter what anyone thinks, I tell you how it is on the ground. And there is this conclusion, Mr. Zvizdić, the House of the Peoples, that people who entered Bosnia and Herzegovina illegally are unable to prove who they are and where laws apply to all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's all I'm asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4541	Thank you. Mr. Martin Raguž, correcting the wrong assumption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4542	Well, this is a business instrument, but I think it's a good thing that we touched this report in some way, and I thank Mr. Prime Minister's President, and I think we really got useful information, and I'm in that opening part when I said that there were certain good things that this Council of Ministers and the chairman and certainly, so all responsible people need to honestly admit it, say hello and say, but in his address he didn't touch two, three subjects that I opened, I'm not going to say whether it was deliberate or not, because it's hard to find counterarguments against what I said, I don't believe that's the reason. One of them is, then, building roadway, key strategic corridors for this country what has been done for these four years compared to some other periods, here, one question, I will not go further into it. No word has touched the political dimension that is absolutely present in the most rigorous way in the process of employment, the acquisition of diplomats and everything else, which is very important, if not one of the most important European principles. Here, and it's not. And I wouldn't be opening that controversy today but I just want to say, therefore, that we should look at the whole, and we who are in a position, the fact is that the votes of the party I belong to have ruled for one vote when it comes to the Labour Act, the most important reform law, and the fact is that those who ruled, so they do everything, not to say what, in relation to such parties in public and in another life. It's facts, we all need to know. Or other things, but the essence of the story is in the following, so we cannot forget here the end of the mandate, that key people of the ruling parliamentary majority promised 2017 candidate status. They're facts, they're not made by anyone, I didn't force them, but they're facts. It passed in '18, did we send answers? We're not even that yet, complete. So this is not about the Council of Ministers, this is about the complete picture, it's partly about me and Parliament. So until we understand that we have all the responsibility, and as a position and opposition, that about these things where all 11 of the party presidents then signed a European declaration where we proposed, some of us, to introduce monitoring as one of those parties who signed a statement that it was committed to a permanent European path is acting when one of the laws of the Reform Agenda is on the agenda, we would now have one real state. Anyway, what do we got now? We have a situation all the opposition before the elections and no one is responsible for some of the things that are... And from cycle to cycle, status quo, and machinery go get elections. We see who has and from what means these billboards are asking you, are they... with the money of citizens or individual party options, etc. We've got a lot of work to do. It's not my intention to pollemize. I just wanted to complete the picture. What's good is good. Thank Bog things started from a dead end, they did. The merits of this belong to this Council of Ministers, but we cannot push our heads into the sand, at least some of us, nor will they push it, nor will they accept under the cover of the European Agenda the silences that what 15 is happening in public enterprises, institutions of education, etc., that I do not list all together. It's not a European way, and we can't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4543	Thank you very much. Mr. Fahrudin Radončić, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4544	Thank you. I welcome my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Without any desire to compromise, I would like to look at only two things: The reduction of the departure of our people to the wartime side is not only a matter of this political convocation of the Council of Ministers in which we are, but probably something called the law that we have passed, i.e. the amendment of the Criminal Law in the past council, where Mr Nović and many people from the previous Parliament sat, which began and made the first in the region an option to sanction, i.e. discourage the departure of these people there. But I didn't answer for it, I answered for a sentence read by Mr. Nović to conduct police investigations under the leadership of the Intelligence Service. I'd like to ask Mr. Chairman, please all of us to return to our Criminal Law, to return to the democratic vandarces of Western civilizations. Investigations are run by prosecutors, police are their leverage. The countries where Intelligence is managing investigations are totalitarian systems, anarchyon systems and systems that no longer exist on planet Earth, except in several cases. So, I'm asking us as a society to take good care of ourselves because the Intelligence Service has already begun to interfere with the work of prosecutors, courts and we have a situation where the Director of Intelligence is calling on the directors of police agencies, which is a felony, look at a little of our criminal law. So, I'm not polluting with the Honorable Chairman, nor Mr. Nović, I'm just drawing attention to us as a society so that someone abuses their powers, and it's still realizing that we need to encourage it or someone to encourage it, is dragging it into a system that has long been overcome in democratic Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4545	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate. In view of the fact that the European Commission is the applicant of this report, I note that we will not declare the report. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH (second reading) – Proposer: delegate Halid Genjac, number: 02-02-1028/18, as of 20.04.2018, consideration by a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 123. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission adopted the text of the draft law together with six amendments that became an integral part of the text of the bill and proposed that it be adopted to the House. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4547	I thank the chairman. Dear presence. Since both the procedural and the substantive issue of this Law is complicated and there are some complex questions I have a need for, which is not common, with the Constitutional Commission to explain some things, more for the public and for the work of colleagues. Therefore, it is known that this Law has come into parliamentary procedure as a result of the Constitutional Court Decision and the need to fill a certain part of the Criminal Procedure Act with a norm which has, meanwhile, been deleted by the Constitutional Court Decision. The debate took a long time, preparation, is known mainly in Parliament. There was a law in the House of Representatives, the law in the House of Representatives was passed, delivered to the House of Peoples. In the meantime, we also had a proposal from the Club of Delegates here at the House of Peoples, and we had this proposal that I suggested, which is essentially the proposal adopted at the House of Representatives, and so it happened that we had three laws at the House of Nations relating to the same question in the procedure. Of course, that's, that's, uh, the question now is trying to find a solution and achieve the goal. Long talks lasted, a long drive to reach consensus, to reach a solution, and to resolve this rather important and complex issue. In this effort to find a solution to the most efficient, most rational, we have reached some compromise that we are acting on the amendments to this Law that I have proposed, which is essentially the same as that Law proposed by the House Representatives for the following reasons. If they were to act on the Law of the House of Representatives, then it would be different in the text adopted here and there and then it would be necessary to appoint a commission, which means two sessions of the House of Representatives. If we act by amendment to this Law, which I have proposed and which is in the process of reading here at the House of Nations, then adopting amendments to this Law would be sufficient for this Law as a proposal to the House of People to be referred to the House of Representatives by emergency procedure and to be adopted by the House of Representatives in one reading by an emergency procedure at one session, and thus we would have resolved the issue of this Law with one session and one and another House. I must also point out in the procedure that we are in an effort to reach a compromise with participation, and cooperation, and the contribution of all those interested in this Law and all those interested in adopting this Law, and I also think of representatives of the international community, because here we also have a question of international standards, the fight against international organised crime, terrorism, etc., so with the participation of all these factors we have found a solution in the form of six amendments. At the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission held, it was the 52nd session, held on 3 September, we accepted those amendments. In a substantive sense, they are not contradictory and there is no problem with the content of these amendments. However, after a follow-up, we have noticed that there are certain technical problems because it is a great law. Some adopted... have caused the need to intervene on other members in order to be harmonised and it was necessary for one transitional norm to be, uh, amended in a quality way. So all of this for reasons that the norm would be better quality in nomotechnical, legal, professional terms, in order to be more specific, more precise, clearer. And then we decided to re-schedul the Constitutional Legal Commission, I have to meet this fellow Members of the House of Nations, in order not to complicate the matter of the amendments to the amendments, we decided to cancel on the Constitutional Legal Commission a statement from the previous session, and at the 17th session today, we pleaded on a concerted, professional, nomotechnical and any other meaning of a better quality amendment, and you have in today's Report the whole chronology that followed this Law. It's about the procedure. So today, with the amendments to the Constitutional Legal Commission, the draft Law on Amendments and the supplementation of the Criminal Procedure has become the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements, because that amendment also refers to the change in the view of the plural, and to the amendments adopted today we are declaring ourselves to such a law. In terms of the content of the Law, these polemics lasted long, there were difficult issues, different views and on the jurisdiction and duration of special investigations, etc., etc. I think that in our quest for compromise we have found solutions which are also implemented by the Constitutional Court Decision, which also meet European standards, which meet the requirements... norms, so let's say, when it comes to, uh, the immunity of the amandman i intervenes in the sense that it cannot be given, apply immunity to criminal acts for which a sentence of at least 10 years is prescribed, I think it is understandable. As regards Amendment III, Amendment IV, they concern the issue of ending the investigation and ending it, and bringing the indictment, the deadlines that are logical, which are newspapers in our system, however, the principle that nothing infinite and indefinitely can last and impose an obligation on prosecutors to, in a way, be more responsible for these procedural actions. And this Amendment V refers to the provision that the items in which the order to conduct an investigation has been taken until the entry into force of this Act will continue the procedure under the provisions of the old Law, this, in order to avoid any ambiguity, necessary transitional norm. And finally, the question of changing the name of the law because it is no longer just one supplement but a supplement. So this is the result of the compromise. I think it's the essence of the one who's been putting up with all these requests that I've listed, and I think that after today's session it was necessary to make these few clarifications. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4548	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. You're also the legislator, do you need to say something as a pronoun? HALID
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4549	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4550	That's it. I'm opening a debate. The word is Mr. Sredoje Nović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4551	Since we are the Serbian People's Club as the promoter of a number of amendments, we have estimated that these amendments should be represented up to these, to this day and should be brought into line. Why were we against an emergency procedure that we explained at some of the previous sessions, we felt it was really necessary for the law to go into the regular procedure and that we all sit down who, as a fellow Genjac would say, are interested in reviewing again everything the law treats. It's not a problem here, that's what we saw when we agreed on the amendments, the Law so much about criminal proceedings, we're just now aware of how necessary it is to amend the Criminal Law so that the procedural 18 laws could be changed in a series of other provisions that were observed that should be changed. This was now only done in order to satisfy the Constitutional Court's decision and not to be put in a position as already foreseen. As a Serbian People's Club, we are pleased that we acted together with representatives of others, first of all I want to say that it was a great working atmosphere and with fellow Genjac and colleagues Čolak, Rodić and others who sat on three or four meetings and where we discussed all segments of the proposed amendments equally. This may also be evidence that in future all laws that are specifically proposed by MPs, delegates, should go through a different procedure in terms of reconciliation, because if we don't, then we will conflict here without need. If we had done so in the law, on Election Law, I am deeply convinced, deeply, that today we would have a completely different Electoral Law and we would not be asking whether the elections would be implemented or not, but rather stubbornly, we stubbornly proposed by the emergency procedure what we couldn't possibly accept to go through. But to finish, I think these amendments that are proposed today are on behalf of the Serbian People's Club, we will uphold the Law, amendments and the Law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4552	Thank you very much. Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4553	Thank you. Am I bored today?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4554	Just use your right.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4555	Come on, I won't be long. As my colleague Genjac said, this is the fruit of compromise and, of course, that if this is the will of colleagues and colleagues, today will be adopted in the way it was spoken. What's, of course, about this law, so I'm not jumping out of the agenda category, is one thing that's fascinating to me. We were supposed to have three laws today on BiH's criminal procedure on the agenda, and the Hrvat klub withdrew its proposal that we had. If we go back a little bit, just a little bit, it's not that far away, some better times when the fuel was cheaper before the excise tax code was passed, that is. Excise, so remember how they flew bill proposals around the House of Representatives, around the House of Peoples, hands up, hands down, it fell, it fell, it fell until once it passed on both Houses. Interested international community, road infrastructure construction will be launched, okay, the sidewalk next to the presidency stands proudly, no one makes anything, and it doesn't matter. Now, what is important about this Criminal Procedure Act is that certain embassies, including the favorite embassy, the American Embassy, mentioned in one context and the Croatian Peasant Party, i.e. HSS, like us against some law enforcement, we protect organised crime for the reason that we had the bill proposed by Mr. Čolak, the distinguished colleagues and I, means our bill proposal, which before the international expert group developed and which was in principle a proposal from the BiH Ministry of Justice, but we are against it because they had a thought not to talk to us, or to the Club of Envoys from the order of the Serbian people, but rather enough to agree with one political option, and that is the rule of 19 rights. And now what am I saying? I'm saying we go back a little bit, a month, two, three, and remember that some colleagues from the Federal Parliament, from the House of Representatives, believe it or not, were brought in before the investigation, were in custody for a crime, a crime of trade in influence. And then there comes the Federal Parliament of Tape, Tape, Tape, Tape, Change it and no more trade in influence, Drop the charges. Believe it or not the protectors of human rights, the protectors of the fight against organised corruption and crime, the dearest embassy, do not answer, which has nothing to do with fighting organised crime and corruption, which all these charges fall, but it does matter if something is not their way. Now, this is Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of how it is, still, except, of course, by intervention of the High Representative, if someone changes it, parliaments decide in this country, not the embassy, not the OHR. And, look, I'm sorry to disappoint them, but in the end, you had to bite on something and it'll be as we agreed, not as you imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4556	Thank you. Next up is Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4557	I just want to say that it's good that we heard this, here, from Mr. Genjac that an agreement and compromise has been reached and that the Constitutional Commission proposes to the House the adoption of these six amendments as an integral text of this Law. And, look, we're gonna raise our hands for it, and I believe that the House of Representatives will raise our hands, and we should all be happy to get rid of it. But why did I answer my word? Now we have interpretations of who is now responsible and how it came to be. Well, come on, don't do that, don't do that. So, without the one pressure that was, and I don't want to evaluate it, which was necessary, because we weren't all at the level together, it wouldn't have come to this. And nobody forbids us to negotiate and seek solutions from the Constitution to the Electoral Law and it will be welcomed from the outside. Well, let's make this an example of our deal, and then let's put these guys on the offensive. And I really think that would be an effective end to this term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4558	Thank you. Mr. Bariša Čolak. He's probably got credit, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4559	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll do it very briefly. So, me and my colleague Zovko on behalf of the Club, which is what the entire Croatian People's Club in this House supports, have submitted six amendments and these amendments have been unanimously accepted on the Constitutional Commission this morning. Just that much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4560	Thank you very much. 20 I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading. There are 14 delegates present – for there were 14, no votes against, no abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 10 for, without votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska – 4 votes to, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general and there's an entity majority. I agree with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in a second reading. The College of the People's House also decided to propose to Dom the adoption of the following conclusion: – The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH proposes to the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the amendment and addition of the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 02-02-1028/18, since 20.04.2018. We are voting on this proposed conclusion. There are 14 delegates present – for there were 14, no votes against, no abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 10 for, without votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska – 4 votes to, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general and there's an entity majority. I'm finding the conclusion of the House of the People's College has been adopted. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-668/18, since 10.07.2018, consideration by a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 123. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples So we're procedurally required to get out of this agenda point. This is the first reading of the bill. Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received opinions from the Legislative Sector and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has established that the proposal for a law is in line with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and that it is in line with the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The constitutional committee of the House of Peoples found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina and supported the principles of the bill. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples if there is any need. There's no need. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. 21 We vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. So 14 delegates joined the vote - no votes for, against 12, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH -- without votes to, 9 votes against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska -- with no votes to, 3 against, 1 abstention. The general majority doesn't exist. I therefore find the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been adopted in the first reading under the shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point five, Ad. 5. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Second Monitoring Report on the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015. - 2019 and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015. – 2019, the Agency’s material for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the Fight against Corruption, issue: 05/8-04-601/18, dated 26.02.2018.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4565	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-09-11-0.u4566	It's like the report. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? 23 We vote on giving consent to the ratification of the agreement referred to in points 7 and 8 of the agenda. There are 13 delegates present – for there were 13, no votes against, no abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 10 for, without votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 for, without votes against, without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we agreed to ratify the agreement in points 7 and 8 of the agenda. With this we exhausted the agenda of the 42nd session. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the delegations on the date of maintenance of the possibly next session will be notified later if it comes to it at all. Thank you very much. Session completed at 12:45.
