ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-26-0.u4167	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, honored guests, I warmly welcome you and open the 39th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the BiH Postal Traffic Agency, the Council of National Minorities, the Committee of Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly, the Independent Commission for Monitoring the conditions of stay in institutions and the conduct and respect of human rights of persons over whom criminal forces and other measures have been exercised in the BiH Court of Justice's criminal proceedings, foreign courts for the crimes provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina law and representatives of international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House. The session is attended by 12 delegates, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 2 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. Accordingly, I find that at this point we do not have the necessary quorum to maintain this session. We did not receive written notice regarding the status of the quorum, but the secretary of the House of Nations, Mr. Bojan Ninković, by telephone conversation, which was therefore still unconfirmed, was in a position to get a partial notice on it. I ask Mr. Bojan Ninković for the regularity of this session and for the determination of the quorum to take the floor and to announce for this speaker the information he has, after which the College will consult on whether there are conditions for the continuation of the session or otherwise we will determine ourselves according to this state. Please, Mr. Ninković, take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-26-0.u4168	I welcome all delegates and guests present. Since we all know that the quorum makes up 9 delegates, i.e. three, three from all three clubs, I counted the quorum this morning, and I received information from the Croatian People's Club, oral on the phone, that three delegates, which is: Mrs. Ljilja Zovko, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas and Mr. Mario Karamatić were not able to attend the session today, and I passed that information to the College of the House of Nations as I did. That's it, thank you. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2018-04-26-0.u4169	Thank you, Mr. Ninković. Is there any comment on the information received like this, I cannot say by the head of the Croatian People's Club because it is not there, here from the members of the Croatian People's College? No objections. I'm asking you to take a short break in place. [[pause - Conferences Colleges]] The consultations have been carried out and we formally determine that there is no quorum, that it is not possible for today to provide a quorum based on the information we have, and that, accordingly, the continuation of this session is scheduled for 15 May 2018, on other details relating to the captain and everything else will be notified in due time. Thank you. Session aborted at 11:07 p.m.
