ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22948	Ladies and gentlemen, honored representatives and guests, we continue the 55th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives, which was interrupted on 21 December 2017. The session called: the presidents and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The absence from the session was justified by MP Jovan Vukovljak, and MPs Denis Bećirović and Damir Bećirović announced a delay. BiH Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak delivered a notice that he will not be able to attend the session. According to the staff at the session, 39 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. I note that we interrupted the session in the context of the debate on item 2 of the agenda, which is the request of the People's House to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, No. 01-02-1-133/17, of 25.07.2017. At the 55th session of December 21st, an emergency procedure request and an open debate on the bill was adopted. So now we continue the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law. I would also like to remind you that, according to the report for the debate, actually someone could have applied, of course, and additionally, we have left it on our monitor, there was, uh, there was about this order. Someone may have given up, but there were also corrections to false allegations. For some technical reasons, or because it's over a certain period, we don't have any wrong allegations here. So, all those who wanted to, and they know, they can re-apply. But here, at this point I don't see, well, here's Dušanka Majkić, the correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22949	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry there are no colleagues, Bećirović, who has placed several significant dilemmas I would like to answer. And even though he's not there, I feel the need to say a few words about a few of his questions he's raised. A particularly crucial issue – I would like to ask you to explain who chose most of the delegates in the Republika Srpska entity Council on behalf of the Croatian people, whether they are representatives of HDZ, SDP or any other party or SNSD. So the question he asked was he could check with his colleague in the Council of Peoples. But him, he was pleased that the Bosnian people's issue in the Republika Srpska Council was resolved, but here he began to worry that representatives of the Hrvat were resolved in the National Council. Well, I must remind him that in the 2nd Council of the People of Republika Srpska elections he was elected according to the Constitution and the law and that on that subject we can only say that of the eight delegates in the Council of Nations two are from the HDZ, two are from the Croatian bloc, that is four, one from the Coalition of Homeland, that's five, one from the Hrvat from the SNSD, that's six, one from the Alliance for Change, actually SDS, that's seven and one from the Socialist Party, that's eight. Therefore, out of eight candidates, five are from the Croatian parties that have proposed in the Council of Peoples. Unlike the Federation's House of People, which has only 13 delegates and six of whom are from the SDP, four are from the DF, the Labourist, the People's Party working for the improvement and our party and is only one from the SNSD. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, just one. So, what I'm saying is, That's the right answer when it's already [[the speaker is warned on time]] We're talking about what anyone said or didn't say and how they were chosen. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Then these SDPs could say six of them determine the position of the Serb people in the Federation of BiH's House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22951	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22952	Thank you. Dear members of the College, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected guests. I don't even know after this break how much this debate still makes sense, given that we've almost all expressed our views several times in the media and that it's about the clear position of all of us. But here, when I checked in last time, then I'll say a few words just so that everything I've said might be said here at the House. Before I speak my mind about this law, in general about the procedure above all, then the law itself, because it is impossible to separate today's discussion of the procedure from the debate on the law itself, I have to say that, or I have an obligation to actually do a few things, a few things here said postulates in some way deny. Namely, one of the esteemed colleagues said in her discussion that the Alliance for Change in Subjectary Position towards the SDA, so it was probably brought into contact with this Law, which was proposed by the HDZ. I haven't found any connection, and I have to say, about this, but when we talk about the sub-dural position, then I don't know what the difference is between the sub-data position towards the SDA and the sub-dural position towards the HDZ, or the SDP, or the DF or any party sitting here in Parliament. So the subject position isn't something that can be graduated so you can be a little more subjective and a little less subjective. The subjective position implies clearly, therefore, that you are inferior to someone. Now, colleague Majkić's throwing, I guess she assumed she said it, I didn't say, uh, who was saying it, so I just said one colleague. I have made little effort in the past month and a half, so thanks to the service, and some of my observations since 2000, I have come to the conclusion that in this House so far, including excise duties, those three excise laws, 607 laws. Of these 607 laws, 515 was supported by SNSD, SDS 412, PDP 481, I am talking about three parties that have been present in this House since 2000. Of those 515 laws that SNSD-supported in Parliament for 504 voted equally as SDA, so for 504 it voted identically as SDA. I repeat, I am talking about the laws adopted in the parliamentary procedure. Of course, one who doesn't believe in this can also turn to the services, and I'll give him my records and let him take a look. And also to thank the services that really made a lot of effort to give me all the information that I asked them for, and I didn't ask for them for this discussion, but I asked for them for something else, but here they are now for this. I could do it now in years, so for example. to say that from 2002 to 2006, when the SNSD was an opposition, it voted in 194 laws, the SDS was in power for 195. And I guess that's some indication of something or a relationship not to say, I'm not talking right now, and I'm not using the term used in the debate of a distinguished colleague. Perhaps this information and some of which I could present, which I will probably present in the next period, when it comes to voting for laws concerning the judiciary, etc., etc., so you will see that the situation looks very different. Unfortunately, gentlemen, you can't use two or three sentences that someone invented and gave to your president, and you have an obligation to say, cover all the crime and corruption that you've done and that exists. Unfortunately, you can't, with all your hard work, which I greatly appreciate, I can see that you're trying, but you can't cover it. Now let me get back to the law. First of all, the principles of this law are acceptable to me. So, as regards the principle of selecting representatives to one nation, I am absolutely standing on the principle proposed by HDZ in this Law. As for the election of the House of Peoples, I did some analysis and I came to the point that in this way we in the Federation of 17 delegates in the House of Peoples, when I tell me I mean the Serbian parties, I chose five instead of the current one, which would be a minority again than the remaining 12, that's a maximum of five, that's a maximum of five, which would be a minority again compared to the other 12 if we were talking about decisions. So he talks about how through this Law we will solve the problem – we will not solve the problem. And then as now they will be elected under the Constitution and the law, because all of us here and at every level in Bosnia and Herzegovina are elected under the Constitution and the law, I don't know anyone who hasn't been elected by the Constitution and the law. The other thing is how we used that constitution and the law in the election. As far as the procedure is concerned, I'm not prone to supporting emergency procedures. I think this is too serious a law, too complicated a law, that its consequences are too serious and too complicated to be considered in an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22953	That's what we've finished, Your Honor, we're now discussing the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22954	I know what we're discussing, I'm just saying since at first I said it couldn't be handled and this could be separated. It's very important that I say that it is known, meaning that in the debate that follows it is, therefore, the consequences of exactly what we're talking about. Am I going to uphold this law now? I will not support this law either, and I will not support the SDA law, because I think the adoption of any of these two proposals is complicated by further relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think no matter what the BiH Election Law is, the essence of the problem, that is, the solution is in the Federation, and that is the thing that must be solved within the Federation. And that is why I see the only way to decide to sit at the table again, so that those who can solve it come to a solution and propose it in line to this Parliament, both homes of this Parliament, and so to remove it from the agenda. The adoption of any proposal will produce a much worse situation than it is today. Thank you very much. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22955	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22956	I have a few things to say to my colleague. The first thing that must be clear to you is that by any chance you did not find yourself in the Alliance for Change you would never be an MP in this House. That's the first thing. The power of your political party would not sit here and it requires a special attitude towards them. The second thing, if the Alliance for Change hadn't been chosen by the SDA to be the government in Sarajevo, he wouldn't have been in the strength of the election result he achieved. It's easy to check what the election results were in 2014. Thirdly, we understand your behavior because some remember you from another period when your arguments were much more convincing and less politically articulated or exclusively politically articulated as they are today. The SNSD has no reason to be inferior to any political party, nor to the HDZ, we have the best political result, we do not need to be licked or courted. And that will be the only thing we go out with when we enter or do not enter power. So don't misread things here when you're not the one who should do it, because you have no arguments on your side.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22957	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22958	My Koleginica Majkić, from 2000 to 2002, you were the authority here and you were not elected by the people, I don't know if you remember how many MPs you had. You remember how you entered power then, you probably remember who chose you then when it wasn't the people. You have the least right to talk about it. I wouldn't talk about it if I were you, 'cause a lot of things behind you are filled with ash. As for how I've been elected, I've been elected, here it says on my card, as an MP in front of the PDP-a-NDP, not the Alliance for Change. So, as a member of the coalition of two parties on this level. ... nothing controversial, I think it's also by the Constitution and by the law. And does that give me the right to see your stupidity? Well, it gives me the right, and it gives me the fact that I've been chosen, in accordance with what you just said, with the Constitution and the law. Maybe it doesn't happen to you sometimes, I understand you, too much I remember here in this House, so sometimes it's better not to touch, because I could bring out a series of arguments, not just the one I talked about earlier. After all, I've been elected here a party with which you together ruled from 2000 to 2002. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22959	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22960	I thank the chairman. 5 I have to react to the wrong assumption – that someone here has chosen the Alliance for Change. The Alliance for Change was not chosen, there was simply no other mathematical majority. But if we're talking about choosing who picked whom I'll remind you of '98. when one party with two MPs was elected by Alija Izetbegović and brought in, the Republika Srpska government was formed. Except for what Honorable counterpart Novaković was talking about, I will also remind him of December 2005, when the late Sulejman Tihić re-elected the minority party and formed Republika Srpska's government, with the minority party, which, thanks to the SDA, was then appointed Milorad Dodik as prime minister for the second time. And I don't know, after all, I'm surprised that SNSD's disgust with the SDA the other day when President Dodik said in interview TV 1 - I'm not disgusted with the SDA, I'm ready to rule with them. There seems to be some discrepancy inside the SNSD. And I'll remind the distinguished colleagues of the SNSD, so there is no, which majority party, equal clubs, the Alliance for Change has a member of the Presidency, although you have one delegate more but there is also something called coalition capacity. I'll remind you that, and I congratulate you on that, you're taking your party quite safely as the Shessel radicals used to go to Serbia, who had 45% but never had the opportunity to form a government, because their coalition capacity was zero. And in the end, they fell apart and lived to see the end. I think you share an identical destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22961	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22962	Madam Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, representatives of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. I was expecting, Madam Chairman, that you will return all previous debaters to the subject, and the agenda point is the request of the House of Peoples to consider amendments and additions to the election law on the HDZ proposal. Representatives of parties coming from Republika Srpska most kindly ask not to address each other, but to discuss the agenda. If they need a break to sit down and clear everything up since '98. Well, nobody's defending them here. It's getting funny, sad in front of the voters who chose, this way of talking. Here, therefore, the item of the agenda is the Electoral Law, not who has had the number of MPs in which the term of office and how it applied to the points of the agenda. So once again, I won't address anyone in particular, please return to the agenda and don't address each other, because it neither solves the problem, nor gets any of the electoral thread if you think you're going to point at it. If you need a break, ask for it. ...in both terms there were no joint meetings of clubs from Republika Srpska on any topic. Now don't let us insist on who's to blame. If it's come to your senses, it's time to put your finger on your forehead. Thank you very much, and please just return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22963	Thank you. Representative Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22964	Thank you, Madam Chairman. 6 Well, I also expected the debaters to be returned to the agenda point, not to let any nebulists and nonsense come out here, so to speak, because that's what the right word should call the right thing to do. My guilty allegations refer to Mr. Novaković's discussion, which has been here since 10 minutes of his discussion, he devoted five minutes to the SNSD. It says how big and powerful the SNSD is in his eyes. I'm glad about that, too, because it's not just Mr. Novaković's opinion, although he's in the so-called. The Alliance for Change, it means the mass of voters and voters, this, in the Serbian Republic. But I'm not sure what Mr. Novaković was going to tell us when he said the SNSD voted for this much or so many laws. Are you saying the parties here shouldn't vote on what parliamentary parties are? But there is a significant difference between you and SNSD in that vote, Mr. Novaković. The SNSD when voting for the laws he votes for laws with a certain reason, for laws that are necessary and useful to all citizens in this country, unlike you who are doing everything you do here in Parliament and in the Council of Ministers is absolutely against the Republika Srpska. In Banja Luka, you're obstructing, and here you're working against your entity. There's a difference between you and us. And let me say to Mrs. Pandurević – all of this you have brought out is complete untruth and nebulosis, but for a long time you will be breaking down over how to beat the SNSD in Republika Srpska. And what you have today's rule in Sarajevo is very questionable and disputable. Just because you had coalition potential at the beginning of this term, ask yourself, "Where is your coalition potential now?" And for that, he testifies and proves all the sessions of the previous House that could or could not be maintained and ended because there is no congregation majority. For that congregation majority you are You are responsible for the Alliance for Change, not SNSD as a position. [[the speaker is warned on time]] For a long time you will spend fighting in Republika Srpska to defeat the SNSD, but you will not succeed safely in due course.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22965	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22966	Well, I couldn't figure out what my guilty quote was. So, a colleague of mine got up to correct my guilty allegations, and now I'm trying to figure out what my guilty claim was fixed by the one who corrected it, other than that we all have to vote for the laws and that it's no problem if we vote for the laws. Nor did I say that the problem is to vote for the laws, of course, is not the problem either of which we voted for 70 and some of the laws imposed by the High Representative, which were not in the very interest of Republika Srpska, if we are going to talk about it. But I really don't see what the problem is. I responded to something that was said here as a finding in my discussion. I didn't start calling anyone, Comrade Špirić. That there is no agreement between the Alliance for Change and the parties gathered around the SNSD believe that at least I can be responsible. And many times I've asked your boss to try and resolve that question, but we haven't solved it, unfortunately we haven't solved it. I guess this kind of discussion wouldn't be, I don't think it would be any better, but there wouldn't be at least this kind of discussion. Next, I used my 10 minutes the way I thought I should use it. Here, I agree with my colleague Marković that SNSD is a serious and strong party, I agree, it is not questionable, which they would say, it is unquestionable. And that's why sometimes the sudden discussion of some of the 7 SNSD people because they're discussing on behalf of the big party, and their discussions should be at the level of these big parties, and Like my party. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22967	Thank you. Representative Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22968	Well, you, Mr. Novaković, obviously, are either weakly concentrated or you have some other problem today so you can't follow yourself what you said and what your findings were, where you were contradictory, let alone follow the political direction and course of the SNSD as large and powerful parties and in Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina if you will. Why did I answer? So, to say you're wrong about honoring a party, especially a big party, a party that was ruling during the period you mentioned, to vote for certain laws. The SNSD has excellent judgments and reasons and arguments as to why it voted for some laws. You have no right, especially from the position of your party, to comment on why the SNSD did it, especially in the situation where you voted for all the laws you voted for today, here's to take this mandate as an example, when all the laws you voted for were largely against Republika Srpska. So, get a little change and follow what you're saying. Obviously you're obsessed with SNSD, and it's not controversial, I understand that some people would like their suffering to have positions and have the capacity that SNSD has today, but you have to do quite differently and you have more responsibility in your political and action and performance to possibly get close to the SNSD and its capacity that it has today, but you'll hardly succeed.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22969	Thank you. Representative Borislav Bojić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22970	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Very briefly, therefore, a few things to point out, first of all, this recommendation by Mr Špirić. I thought he also referred to his colleagues who, among other things, addressed us from the Alliance for Change and the Serbian Democratic Party, etc. kolegica Marković, when it comes to the effect and what the political parties have done, we leave it to those who, above all, will talk about what it is, when it comes to the position of Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, the Serbian Democratic Party, the Alliance for Change and, of course, the SNSD. So those of us who are currently actors shouldn't be talking about it, let's leave it to those who will certainly be far more quality to talk about it. As for you and passing the law, it is indeed a fact when it comes to you, and you say that you have worked in the interests of the people, it is very interesting when it comes to the Court and the Prosecutor's Office to vote on the same court and the prosecution against whom you are allegedly now. It is even more interesting when it comes to your strategy – tighten the belt to introduce the citizens of the excise, you told the citizens of Republika Srpska very nicely and precisely. The best thing to do is to pull the belt a little bit past this standard of citizens... And an objective standard of citizens in Republika Srpska is provided in Republika Srpska. And I agree with the part where you were mentioned here that first of all these topics should be discussed in the National Assembly and Republika Srpska. In any case, yes, why not, but why do you have the right to direct these types of qualifications to us who are from the 8 Serbian Democratic Party, the Alliance for Change, the Party of Democratic Progress and other political parties that are here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Once again, leave it to those who, be sure, will tell what is the real political result of the work of political parties in terms of, above all, fighting for the creation of Republika Srpska, its preservation and its progress, above all in the recent past, etc., and not that you are giving qualifications who made what contribution. By you, believe me, there would be no Republika Srpska, after all as political parties at the time of formation There was no Republika Srpska. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22971	Thank you. Representative Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22972	Thank you, Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome all my colleagues, colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. I would most like not to comment on such political thesis and claims by political parties, or representatives of political parties coming from Republika Srpska. I think there are much better addresses than this to discuss it with Republika Srpska, much better and more suitable places to cross arguments for, against and arguments that indicate that there are political differences between us and the Alliance for Change. Too much hysteria, I'd have cancer, sick hatred from certain individuals who come from the SDS, and I wouldn't say that the entire SDS hates SNSD, but individuals do, and that's what we've been seeing here for the last three years. There are individuals who do it intensively, I don't think it does it complete SDS or I don't know PDP or NDP. But well, that's what it says about individuals, that's what it says about some people who want to position themselves. I would prefer here, here, to refer a little bit to Mr Novaković in part and to something that has been trying skillfully for several years to put to the address of the SNSD, it is the Law on the Court and the Prosecutor's Office We are well informed that this is the imposed law of the High Representative and that it was only possible in the BiH Parliament to amend the law if Parliament adopts this Law. For three years there have been certain structures from Republika Srpska in power and we have not seen any amendments and additions to the law, and we have seen a race over elections and judges, and prosecutors, and I don't know who else is not. So, please don't talk about these things that way, given the fact that there is a dominant human policy here and the use of judicial institutions to deal politically with SNSD. And that And that's your... [[the speaker is warned on time]] I'll get Vratić to this. I'd really prefer to pay attention. and time, Madam Chairman, the argument of the Croatian MPs who are the legislators of this Law, to see the arguments that speak of the need to amend the Law, given that this relationship between the SNSD and the Alliance for Change will not make... a contribution to what you wrote about in the procedure of amending the Law and I think that in that sense we need to take more time to hear the argument of your proposal. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22973	Thank you. Representative Borislav Bojić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22974	Ma, you see only clear explanations for, uh, you're saying now your political views are such that everything that has brought the High Representative for the SNSD is unacceptable. I'm asking myself how was it acceptable for you to support this kind of imposed law? Your thesis, colleague Majkić, about the changes and not only that and that, so it would take a little more time for me to explain that part to you. So, and that's just like you from the SNSD and the changes and everything you've done in the past, so when it comes to your actions, at the end of the day when you treat institutions, and above all, the highest institution in Republika Srpska, and that's the president of the Republic and the kind of shame that you've done in time, is something that will never be corrected. And that's what someone else is going to talk about, so, and I don't need me right now as someone who's present here right now talking about it, believe that there are serious people who are seriously analyzing everything we've done in the past when it comes to our relationship with institutions. Therefore, that kind of relationship of yours is something that is unacceptable entirely. So, when it comes to your relationship with the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, you showed it by voting, as we will see, we will have an opportunity to see when it comes to the budget, what majority, and how the government at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina is drawn up, which is why you come together from the SNSD when it comes to the needs of budgeting. I wonder if you'll vote for this budget, we'll see today, we'll have a chance to see what your political views are and who they are, in fact, most of them here in Bosnia and Herzegovina and how they form. Here, there will be an opportunity, before us to see how SNSD will act, very soon this topic will come here to this House of Representatives that we are also talking about. Then it will be fully clear how the government is formed at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and how we operate in general when it comes to the functioning of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in relation to a key document called the budget. I believe you will support the Council of Ministers with support from the budget. this composition that it is in, because it has offered a budget which primarily as SNSD and Republika Srpska, in a way, pleases you. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22975	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22976	I didn't think I'd have to answer again, and I think counterpart Bojić just now said what the Serbian Democratic Party's intention and the Alliance for Change is to be a destruction until the election. The destructive behaviour in this House damages all levels of government, both federal and Republika Srpska. And now, in order for there to be no confusion, we will vote for everything that will not be a destruction in order to lead the citizens to the elections in a peaceful walk. What is the reason to vote against the budget unless it is a blockade of international financial flows towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. But you out of the majority wonder if you exist or don't exist, we are by force of opportunity because the Alliance for Change seeks to block all international financial flows towards Republika Srpska had to... and be an ad hoc part of the majority. And we'll do it for Republika Srpska all the time, and we don't hesitate to do it. So we will not vote against the budget to satisfy the Serbian Democratic Party that thinks life should stop until they come to power, so generations will die, not just one election cycle. So, I beg you don't take it personally, so if we're going to vote, everything that's interested in the government working, that pensioners receive salaries, workers receive salaries, that social benefits, the SNSD will vote out of the role of the opposition, and you of most people wonder why you've come into a destructive situation. We have a lot of reasons, say, but we're not mean to sit as an opposition, so please let us talk 10 about the problem. It will not be a problem for Hrvat in Bosnia and Herzegovina to disappear if Srbin fight or if Bošnjak fight. Why don't we talk face to face about the problem? People say we have problems We want amendments to the Electoral Law [[the speaker is warned on time]] Let's see how we relax the situation. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And this resistance to Republika Srpska will disappear on the election day of October, then you will not have a destructive role, and therefore fight, you have a legitimate right, I do not dispute it, but do not use this Parliament for destruction. So, if the IMF's condition is to adopt a federal budget and budget at a state level, unless the procedure framework is changed, the SNSD will support the budget, you don't need to divulge, for the sake of pensioners, workers, people with disabilities, families of the missing and that I don't keep counting, at the shame of the Serbian Democratic Party Come out and tell the public, until the election we're destructive [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22977	Aleksandra Pandurević, has information that it is the third replica, because in the first part it was one replica that is not registered now, it is information from the Secretariat. Chairman Borjana Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22978	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I will also say in the beginning that I am truly sorry that through these powerful corrections we have somehow distanced ourselves from a topic that is very important for all of us who are sitting here and for all the peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But here, since we have drifted away from this below, I will also remind myself that indeed there have been a lot of debates on the proposal for these amendments to the electoral law, and then on the reasons for its amendment, and I will also repeat that the reasons for the adoption of this Law are reflected primarily in the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision, which calls for a general principle of democracy under which one people does not choose other political representatives. Given that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a democratic state and that it operates by the basis of laws and free democratic elections, this means that democratic decision is achieved by legitimate political representation, i.e. the choice of those it represents and whose interests it represents. Therefore, this bill contains provisions that make the selection of members of the Federation presidency fair in a way that forms three ad hoc areas, and their composition is based on the 2013 census. This choice actually involves the formation of ad hoc electoral areas in a way that forms an area A into which municipalities with a two-thirds Bosniak majority, an election area B with municipalities with a two-thirds majority of Croatian people and C other municipalities enter. So, the choice is made in one simple way so that a Bosniak member from the Federation's space is chosen by one who received the largest number of votes by Bosniak candidates, provided that in B+C he received more votes than in the A+C area, and in the same way as in the case of a Croatian member of the presidency, the one who received the majority of Croatian candidates' votes on condition that he received more in the A+C area than in B+C. As for other proposals, they also refer to the amendment, i.e. to the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision for the City of Mostar, according to which different numbers of voters in election units, which are former city areas in Mostar, chooses the same number of council members in the City Council. This means that the value of the vote in individual election units such as Southeast is four times higher than the value of the vote in other election units in the Southwest. These proposals are also fully 11 in line with the Constitutional Court Decision, and the election of council members is carried out through five multi-member election units in a way that 26 council members are elected through multi-member electoral units and 9 from the compensation mandates from the city of Mostar's territory as a whole. The proposed amendments also fully implement the Constitutional Court's decision to elect legitimate representatives in the House of Peoples of the Federation. Namely, the Constitutional Court Decision in Subsection B of Article 10.12. (2) deletes the sentences – one place shall be given to each constituent nation in each canton. The reason for the decision is that under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, three constituent peoples of Hrvat, Bošnjak, Srbin and other citizens, therefore the principle of constitutionality and equality can only be achieved if the choice, i.e. the fulfillment of the House of Nations, is based on clearly precise criteria that lead to the full representation of each of the constituent peoples. In fact, what she wants, the decision also confirmed that contrary to this principle is inadequate political representation and actually leads to a violation of the principle of constitutionality, and thus to a violation of the BiH Constitution. We are also reminded by the Constitutional Court's decision that the House of Peoples of the Federation is the House of Constitutional Peoples, and by no means the home of the county, i.e. canoton or federal units. Therefore, the basic function of the House of Nations is to protect constitutionality and equality, and it can only be achieved by democratically selecting the envoys of that constituent people who represent and whose interests it represents. According to this proposal, and based on this Decision to which we are calling, the Constitutional Court decisions, the envoys are elected from the county, or cantonal congregations, proportionate to the national structure of the population in that county or canton compared to the total number of the population in the Federation. It's the same procedure for avoiding the envoys of each of the constituent peoples. Finally, I would like to say that this proposal is appreciated, we have heard much that it is unacceptable, we have not heard really any reason, nor any fact, in any way this or that provision is contrary, therefore I would like to say and repeat, means that it is valued by the BiH Constitutional Court in its procedure, you know well, in the way that the Bosniak People's Club has withdrawn the issue of vital interest and there is such a decision of the Constitutional Court which said that this law, or this proposal, does not offend the vital interest of the Bosniak people, does not contain discriminatory provisions, implements the Constitutional Court Decision and that it is fully in accordance with the BiH Constitution. In the end, I want to say that we are all aware, I hope, that the amendments to the Election Law are very necessary, that they are not only necessary because the provisions of the Election Law by the Constitutional Court are put out of force and that they are not necessary just to carry out the elections, in order to implement the election results. Indeed, it is necessary, but I think they are needed as a contribution to building Bosnia and Herzegovina politically stable, safe, sustainable, prosperous, European and Euro-Atlantic Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hope and believe that we are very aware, regardless of what we have heard, that such changes would be a contribution and a presumption to the implementation and European judgments of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg that is awaiting us, which can only be implemented through the amendments to the Constitution. And regardless of the attitudes we have heard, for no reason, no facts, no explanations, we will continue, when it comes to these proposals for amendments to the Election Law and the Constitution and Bosnia and Herzegovina, to be part of the positive solutions that are in the interest of all the constituent peoples and citizens who live here. Thank you. Deputy Šefik Džaferović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22979	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. 12 Let me only say in three sentences what it is that is disputed in the discussion which was brought forth by the esteemed chairman, Mrs. Krišto. Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot, when it comes to the Presidency, pass any law that will either confirm or extend the existing discrimination established by the European Court of Human Rights, there is a position and a Council on Foreign Affairs of the European Union. This proposal, which we are now considering, at the very least, confirms if it does not extend the discrimination already in existence in Bosnia and Herzegovina. When it comes to the House of Peoples, the House of the Federal Parliament is not only a House that protects vital interests, it is not an ethnic home exclusively, it is a legislative home in full capacity and if it is a legislative home in full capacity then it must be ensured for it by the civil-ethnic principle of completion. From what we have today as a suggestion we can conclude that it is actually trying to retain the existing character of the House of Nations, and to exclude the civil element in its fulfillment. And the second thing, the Constitutional Court has said that the Federal House of Nations is not home to cantons, but is not the Federation of BiH a Federation of Peoples, but a Federation in which cantons exist, in which constitutive nations, others and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina live, says the Constitution. And for Mostar, take and calculate, and you will see what kind of solution has been offered, A solution that creates permanent domination, I would say, even one political party, and Mostar needs a solution for Mostar to be a single city in which the equality of all and the exclusion of the domination of anyone over anyone will be ensured. [[the speaker is warned on time]] That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22980	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22981	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. The wrong quote refers to your exposure. So it's unacceptable for me to have someone in one sentence appeal six times to the Constitutional Court's decisions, using the county. 20 years ago, the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court said that the use of the name County is unconstitutional, which will show, or what it has been saying for three decades HDZ shows that from the Constitutional Court to Dejton it takes what is right for them and uses as its argument to defend it, is it, its views. On the other hand, the proposal that came before us, and as far as the Electoral Law is concerned, looks like ABC cheese, which we can buy in every supermarket in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will show your exposure that you're in favour of the Euro-Atlantic Bosnia and Herzegovina, that you want to do something that happened during Hitler when they were wearing those elbow strips, to mark us from which area A, B, C comes from. So, we no longer go to the cabin, to the voting booths with a ID card, rather than to mark us with those areas of your A, B, C. You say that this is an infringement of constitutionality and that you, here, you've come up with some proposal that is, is it? these NGOs of the HNS, and you are also a member of the Interresor Working Group of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, here for three or four years you have been sitting in this Interresor Working Group, which is what my esteemed colleagues were calling for at the previous, in previous discussions, says you should sit at the joint table. Which is a common table when you're sitting in that Interresorno, most of you here from the parliamentary benches, sitting in that Interresor Working Group, and there's nothing you could do about it, and how you need now those of the Federation to sit together again, probably take some fees for their work and agree that there's nothing I can agree on. 13 Also, you say it is a legitimate choice, that it should be for the Croatian people to have a legitimate, as you say, representative Well, if that's the case, Mrs. Krišto, then you're a member of the HDZ and a high-ranking member. [[the speaker is warned on time]] HDZ should have done something about it a long time ago, e.g. to work on the birth rate in cantons where you've been acting as HDZ for three decades, and already in 2000, if you'd started with that, you'd be [[the speaker is warned on time]] In 2018 they had persons who were legally legitimate, yes, that they could go to elections. [[the speaker is warned on time]] What have you done with the cantons where you've been running power for three decades? You've made those cantons devastate, that it's birthright. [[the speaker is warned on time]] [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22982	I'm warning you in time. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22983	below zero, so you didn't do anything Even more so... to challenge you to say... legitimate representatives. [[the speaker is warned on time]] What kind of legitimate representatives...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22984	I thank Representative Salko Sokolović, a correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22985	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present. I refer the Republic to the presidencies of the visual findings presented here in its discussion. I will repeat one sentence I said at last session when I analyzed the Election Law, the proposed Election Law, which is that the completeness of the Federal House of Peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina is an additional ethnic division and it is contrary to both the Federation Constitution and the existing Election Law. I would ask the chairman that, here if he can explain to me precisely the mathematical calculation of the election of delegates from the Herzegovic-Neretva canton, here is the proposed 2013 census, this one, where he says that over 92 thousand Bošnjak, more than 118 thousand Hrvat, over 6 thousand Srbin and over 3 thousand ostali live in the Herzegovic-Neretva Canton, over 3,000 Serbs, as mathematically calculated that delegates in the Federal House of the People of Herzegovina-Neretvacanton are five delegates of the Hrvat, two delegates from the Serb people, one delegate from the Bosniak people and zero delegates from the others? Did you not disrupt the value of the vote here, exactly what you want to fix when your proposal for Mostar City is and where in one part you speak of the value of the vote increased four times. So just mathematically when this construction and the selection of delegates is set up based on the number of people living in the Hercegovic-Neretva canton, you have disrupted the value of the voice and increased the factical position of the Croatian people by four times. Here's just a detail of the Herzegovic-Neretva canton since I'm specifically from it, And I don't have... to analyze any other cantons, I'd ask you just to explain it to me, so you can convince me, because you just said there were no detailed examples or fact-finding data to challenge your proposal. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22986	Thank you. 14 The chairman of Borjana Krišto, the correction of the false precept. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22987	Thank you very much. I will refer through the correction to the quotes of distinguished counterpart Šefik Džaferović and representative Maja Gasla. A colleague, Šefik, said our proposal is in some way further moving us away and that it is discriminatory because of the non-implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision, i.e. the European Court of Human Rights in the Sejdic-Finci case. Dear fellow I know that this may be your political position, but the proposals that we have made here in the Electoral Law are fully in line with the current BiH Constitution and in no way do they distance us, on the contrary, they are our assumptions for the implementation of this verdict. The European judgment, once again I will remind you and everyone else, in no way says that the national omen or ethnic omen is a problem or that it is something discriminatory, speaks of the inability of those who do not plead as members of a constituent people to run for election for member of the Presidency. All the other things that you have talked about when it comes to the House of Peoples, as he is equal to the House, none of us in his proposal has touched the way decisions are made in terms of the equality of this House with another House, but we have talked about the legitimate choice of political representatives in the House of Peoples by the same legislative procedure that applies to all three constituent peoples and to the principles that the BiH Constitutional Court has pointed out in its Decision, that the constitutionality and equality of views in the legitimate choice of political representatives, those represented and whose interests it represents. And as for my colleague Maja, I will now relate to this, as far as the name of the county and the canton is concerned, I will continue to speak the county, because it is still a name, I am familiar with the Constitutional Court's decision, which has been declared, until the name is changed he is also a constitutional and county and canton for me. Just so you know, I know it's unknown to you, when the Constitutional Court declares those provisions unconstitutional in the sense of putting them out of force and I will respect it. As for your remarks Your love for the legitimate representatives of the Croatian people as a constituent people is known to me in terms of legitimate choice. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much. Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22988	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I was talking about the last time we opened this agenda point, and today I'm standing by that position, so the way I see solving this question, you have no interest in solving this issue, just like there's no interest, let's just say, no proposal submitted by the U.S.A., because what you're talking about is actually the only way to try to stay this issue open for the next four years, and you're willing to fight to protect each other's interests. ...my colleague Salko said, you can't do one thing, solve one problem by opening and imposing another bigger one. You through this proposal of yours do, it's obvious, you do. When you talk about the clear criteria for filling, it is clear that the way you do it has no argument in it that it can be sustainable in that sense. You're saying you're aware of the need to get rid of this, and with no concrete proposal, you're not going in that direction in any clear way to get rid of it. That's why I just said, I don't think you have any interest in solving this issue. On the other hand, you have no political will, and you don't have, if you want, any political capacity to solve it in that sense, you don't have a partner. So even the Council of the European Union, when discussing Bosnia and Herzegovina, made it clear in its conclusions that the proposal you submitted was not good. So, I don't mean to open a particular story here 15 today, as it is called, to prove itself on one side or on the other, I just want to tell you that the way you want to keep this topic and all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and including the SDA proposal, so I'm going to discuss the same thing, I also discussed when it comes to SDA, when it comes to adopting excise duties, you have this capacity, and Milorad Dodik joins you, under the story of protecting pensioners, to protect the sustainability of institutions, etc. I think that you are just protecting your own, as it is called, busy positions and that the way you do this is certainly never going to solve this issue, that it is necessary in Bosnia and Herzegovina to open another kind of capacity, internal agreement and another kind of approach, because without it, as I said, we can also in the next few mandates since 2018 and further tell the same story, we have the same approach and we will never get to a solution. Therefore, please, if we are already talking about the Electoral Law, you have a proposal submitted by a group of people gathered around the Independent Block to ensure that we do not steal from election processes. You will vidjeti that some other people who will be legitimately elected by the people of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak in Bosnia and Herzegovina will have the capacity to solve what you have been talking about for years, and you essentially do not want to solve it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22989	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22990	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome all present in the hall. So, I'd like to refer to something Mr. Novaković said, because as far as I'm concerned, I'm left with another, uh, correcting the wrong quote from the previous debate, and I find it hard to refer to the discussions that were in the previous cycle, but I'll try here in this short time. So, Mr. Novaković said that this proposal, in some way, does not resolve the issue of elections, the good choice of Serbian representatives in the Federal House of Peoples, but I would only say that this is based on the constitutionality that the OHR regulated on the premises of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it was settled in Republika Srpska that we have the Council of People, and in the Federation that we have the House of Peoples, and Hrvat no longer have constitutionality. And to the colleagues of the Bosniak people, those who spoke in the previous discussion to those who spoke today, and to my colleagues, gasal, I would say the following – you do not want and you do not advocate a democratic and normal state as is only possible, you want the state to your extent, which is not equality and is far from it. On that path we stand for you, legitimate representatives of the Croatian people, and we will stand. You know it's crazy to insist that you choose the representatives where it belongs to us, the public needs to know, that we're a good excuse for your long-standing failures, but he needs to know that we're not looking for any more rights than the same, and there's no deviation from it, and you gentlemen call it whatever you want. That is the only way for us to live in our country together. You'll only remember the excise debate, when you referred to what the Office of Representatives of the European Commission did here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Vigemarka, and now you didn't say anything, so what he was doing here, he never said by any argument that we proposed a proposal contrary to European standards, because we were with him, gentlemen, I was personally and asked to be told in particular, what is an article that does not comply with European standards. [[the speaker is warned on time]] He didn't answer anything. We've also been to the High Representative, he hasn't answered anything. So, don't blame things, Mr. Sokolović, so we're talking about the number of people, the total number of Bošnjak in the order of the HNZ, when we talk about the total number of Bošnjak in the Federation, that's how you get the number you get. So 16 mathematics is absolutely clear, but I don't have time to explain it all. But it's all clear to you, just remember what I told you before, so gentlemen won't go like this anymore, it won't work.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22991	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22992	My colleague Šepić helped me in the replica by speaking very clearly and precisely about the attitudes I share with him, so here's how I'm going to shorten. I would like to say that I doubt the intention of having a greater number of political parties in power to change the electoral law in the first place. In fact, I believe that they want to create, and this bill is one of these, creating a vision of a struggle to resolve this issue or to change the election law, and that the ultimate goal is not to change the law and to get into elections, to hold elections, and before it is said that this is not possible, but still under the pressure of the parties to hold elections, and then with a strong political impact on the members of the Central Election Commission, the results of the elections are created as is primarily the case for HDZ and the SNSD, because it can be heard informally that they are currently controlling the most in the Central Election Commission, although the fight is taking place and every member of the Central Election Commission has become extremely important, in fact, because they will determine the results of the elections and not the voters. I'm here to make our maximum, to make a legitimate choice. And the legitimate choice is what the people want, not what those who want the day of the election at seven in the morning already have 20, 30 or 50,000 in advance. We didn't have a legitimate election, because in our election there are thefts. Let's count ourselves here who's in favor of preventing these thefts, and who's to create a vision of some work and alleged amendments to the Electoral Law, and and in advance, with the goal of making no changes and of still being in the box at seven in the morning of 20, 30 or as many as thousands of votes. [[the speaker is warned on time]] There will be a very quick opportunity to show ourselves here also by voting for laws that will be in the process and which we want to make fair and fair elections so that they are among other things legitimate, we show what is who I'm sorry for the bad words, but here's the chairman. I'm finishing this. Come on, I'm not gonna say anything. It's better. It's smarter. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22993	Thank you. A zastupnica of the Gasal-Vražalica-Devil has a third correction and has no right to do so. Representative Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22994	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Here, Mr. Lovrinović, counting on Bošnjak status in the Bošnjak-Neretva canton, is under urgent need of equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. By the way, I believe that the Bošnjak are the most endangered people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and counting on their status in Republika Srpska, the entity Republika Srpska, the Herzegovina-Neretva Canton, the Lithuanian Canton, the Posava Canton. But you really can't convince me that when it comes to the Herzegovic-Neretva canton, the election of delegates in the House of Peoples, that 24,000 Hrvat represent one delegate, that 92,000 Bošnjak represent one delegate and that 3,200 Srbin represent one delegate. I'm an expert engineer, I know math well, she's an exact science, and I don't know how you calculated this 17 at all, but this is proof that Bošnjak in the Herzegovic-Neretva canton are a category at risk and that they're collateral in this proposal for all of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22995	I thank Representative Monika Tomić for correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22996	I welcome all present. I think that in my debate earlier, at the previous session, I basically said everything I thought about this, but what I couldn't really keep quiet, that here I wasn't saying in two sentences that first it wasn't clear to me how you all know what we're thinking, and that way you all start today and the last debate, and what you think we've all heard, and last time, and now. All this somehow leads to some desire for the Hrvat to get kicked out of this game, for the Hrvat to be some small national minority to whom someone else will determine all the rules of the game. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22997	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul also has a third replica, or correction, so he has no right to do so. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel. Nikola Lovrinović answered, but I can't see here right now, we've already given our word, too late. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Nikola Lovrinović doesn't either, if you're just checking, right. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u22999	Thank you, Madam Chairman, for giving me your word. I can't come to myself where this discussion is going, how many of these replicas and false allegations and nothing to do with the relationship, or there's no point of contact with the law that we're supposed to be talking about. Also, I cannot come to myself as I interpret the Constitution of my country, especially because the Constitution of my country has the first member who is essentially the Holy Scriptures for where we strive, the Convention on Human Rights. It is the first member of the Constitution of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, I communicate with people, I walk, I communicate with people from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina, the interpretation that we have here from the constituent peoples is completely wrong, because it is not true, it is not constitutional. They are selected from three different ones, but each represents the interests of every citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina. He does not represent ethnos, he does not represent a religious group, he does not represent part of the state, he is a member of the presidency representing the entire state. It's just amazing that for some who sit here, but not here where the MPs are, not here where the MPs are, I won't count them, we're fighting to see what we're going to do with the law, but on the left and right, I first showed the right because when you look at you on the left, so on the left and on the right, we're disabling the right to run. There is one 18 gentleman who was my, was my work colleague and with whom he worked very successfully at the Ministry of Industry when I was a minister, was my assistant, a Hrvat, a very quality man, but there is no chance of being run because he is from Sarajevo, he is here, or my Miro Grbavac from Stupa, or my sports colleagues from Tuzla, who are Hrvat, and I can now list it as much as you will, but also for Bosniaks to understand each other immediately, from Livna, and so...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23000	Please, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23001	Please, math is a weird thing. I gave my colleagues on the Foreign Trade Commission paper, and yet no one has come to tell me it's not true, where I calculated that 1=2, or that 2=8, that's what I'm going to bring to you, members of the College. As exact as it is, there are as many maths and anomalies as you've explicitly calculated, you've failed exactly. Where do you get the right to count blood cells, anyone here where we sit? Gentlemen, I'm going to ask for services, I'm going to print out a website for you, pay it, don't be difficult for you to see your genetic code and where you came from, so I'm very interested in how you're going to react here, how you're going to react here. Now it's a discount price, genetic code, 66 bucks, ma'am, you get it real quick, it's done in the United States. You even get a genetic code where you have a relative, so you'll be amazed, in Asia, in Mongolia, in the Tungus Republic, in Africa, at least you'll be who you think you are. Let's make these people, that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, live normally, live without this press we made, ethnically. If there is a Bog, I deeply believe he has him, then we're all his, we're all the same in front of him, and the way we pray to him, we worship him, it doesn't matter. Only what we carry in our soul towards humans is worth it. Our evil destroys this land, our favors destroy this country. Here the only goal is to have as many towers as possible, perhaps someone will make Babylon towers soon, forgetting that in the end everyone will be placed in the most beautiful villa in the world, twice a meter, with different depths depending on the type of terrain. We must simply understand that we have brought this country into hopelessness and it is empty, with this approach we will empty even more. I will not support these kinds of amendments to the law, nor will I, as a man, take one step to make any being in this country a second order. And in the end, not all bošnjak are Islamic faiths, not all Hrvat are Catholic faiths, not all Srbin are Orthodox religions, never interfere with their minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23002	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23003	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll do it for a while. What seems to me from the very beginning is that there is no good will here to discuss the obvious problem in a democratic way. I am afraid that both Bosnia and Herzegovina, 25 years after Dejton, did not experience full democratic maturity so that people could speak openly in this House about their fears, problems, problems, etc. It is entirely legitimate for HDZ and representatives of Croatian political parties to discuss what 19 think is their problem. What is immatureness that there is no answer on the other side, that there is no willingness to sit down, to say – good people, let's see what it is that frustrations Hrvat in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Does anyone think if that frustration remains and this other concept wins in 30 years, that Bosnia and Herzegovina will have a good life? He won't. It's not any law of Bogo day, it's not for a million years, let's solve the problem. Let him sit with people and say, okay, this is standard, this is democratic standard, this isn't. What I understand is, let's say what frustration we all know, the election of members of the Presidency and delegates to the Federal House of Peoples and the State House of Peoples. Here the question arises if the Constitutional Court's decision is not respected, there is no amendment to the Election Law, only the question is whether the political opportunities in this country will be agreed before the elections or after the elections? Will we, as representatives of the state parliament, legislatively prepare the ambience for democratic elections. Now that is the task of this House. Any problem we leave behind, which is sharpened, will not solve anything in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I ask you that today we are not looking forward to closing this problem in a way that this... I'm in favour of talking about this and those who have the most rigid attitude that this is wrong, to those who think this is ideal. But if we leave, let's say, to one constitutive people that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a civil state, what people are talking about is quite logical, from national to civil they must be mature institutions that will lead to civil, if this is the process and strategy that everyone has adopted, and let's ask ourselves here whether or not we are. So, we're not, but let's solve this problem before the election so we don't get into a severe crisis before the election or after the election. Failure to adopt the electoral law strengthens international arbitration in the electoral process. It's not a wish or an international institution, and I'm guessing it's not our wish either. And I'm asking you today that regardless of the result, we're not closing this problem. It's impossible in the national state, it's impossible, and it's impossible for a non-secular state to dominate the civil concept. We have to be honest, so it's impossible, the problems will escalate again, and I think the Hrvat need to create a memorial that others have. And why, I would like to hear today that it goes from amending the law which, from members to members, is wrong and what we suggest as a better solution. It may be a mistake to go through an emergency procedure here, so it closes the possibility of talking, but I think it's better to solve this problem and in a form that we don't like, than to leave the problem quiet. And that's why we have to face-to-face talk, not run away from talking. We've been talking about everything today, only amendments to the election law as proposed by the HDZ. I don't think it's right for one constitutive, everyone to choose their own representative, that Hrvat can't do that, I think. Is that a better civic concept, I can't talk about it, but we don't have it now. The election of delegates in the House of Peoples does not solve the problem of Srbin in the Federation, but it moves it from a dead end. So they don't solve these changes and supplement the Hrvat' problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but they do solve what they point out to be the most neural point. And come on, what does it matter if we adopt amendments and amendments to the Electoral Act and see if that solves the problem after the election? It's not meant to change the law again, or it's touched, it's removed, who's the capario, it's his. There's no willingness to talk, and that's what worries me the most in this country. Here, so I'd like to ask you to talk, from member to member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23004	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23005	I have to, because I have nothing else here to press my colleague, Nikola Špirić. I completely agree with Nikola with you, but here we remain according to this ethnicity, but they are not members of the Presidency of the people chosen, but of all citizens, it is a constitutional provision. 20 And it would be wiser if it were said here – we are changing the Election Law because that person and that person, it is drawn, must be a member of the Presidency and not be elected here. Let's pass a law on lifetime membership in the Presidency and that person, by name and last name, because that's what this looks like. The way you talk to strangers and support you, I tell you that when they talk to us who aren't you, they talk differently and say, just you, Mr. Nikola, but this is exactly what I'm saying, I have and I'm recording Nikola, and when the time comes, I'm gonna let you hear it, so they say this - this is the coercion that he and I need to be there and, not to say what else they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23006	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23007	Look, I'm sorry to hear this, but there's just some things they're looking for, what's-his-name, some reaction. Never, when he said this in one part I could understand that he was showing a kind of well-meaning, sit down, but who should sit down, Nikola who would sit down? Who wants to sit down? Well, then, to sit down people who just hold us hostage. We've been talking about this issue for 15 years, the same people, the same politics, the same representatives, the same as it is called, the name and last name of the people sitting here. Well, then, that's the fact that these people won't solve the problem. So I'm one of the people that I'm gonna sit down to honestly open things up and solve the problem, but you that holds the institutions hold all of us hostage in those institutions, you're doing it so you don't solve the problem. So when we were thinking about what to discuss, what to do, what to take in one of these conditions, in a story like this about the Electoral Law, we wrote and said – let's let people solve the problem of election theft. I am convinced that people do not choose in Bosnia and Herzegovina the main representatives who are sitting today and in the homes of the people in front of the Bosniak people, neither in front of the people of the Hague, mostly in front of the Serb people, nor in front of the people sitting here, lead us to the greatest main word from the compensation lists, etc. hajati's make this a situation where people, in which both our citizens and Srbin, and Hrvat, and Bošnjak, will be convinced to the end that what they choose, what they round up, that it will be recognized and that these people will sit in parliaments. Be assured that after the elections, after such elections, we will get a second composition among both the Serbian and among the Croatian and among the Bosniak representatives, and we will solve this, for God's sake, a big problem that the SDA with such a policy and with such a matrix, therefore, and HDZ, in particular, with such a matrix has been imposing for years. So you take this text of yours, as it's called, of the Law, you'll see that in some things you left in the 2010 elections it will be, it's the same approach. Eight times you're trying to solve the problem the same way, it's about that, you're not going to solve the problem. You want to have a theme, you want to keep all of us here, not to say, so as hostages in this country, that simply you, for God's sake, would defend yourself, interests. [[the speaker is warned on time]] When you need to make appointments, when you need to raise a new loan, when you need to raise excise duties, you all hug together, you don't hate Šefik Džaferović to SNSD, or HDZ to the SDA, etc., that public these countries, both Croatian, both Bosniak and Serbian should know. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23008	Thank you. I don't see any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. A colleague checked in, is that it? Diana, here you go, MPs, we won't deny it, I didn't see it. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23009	Thank you. Here, I didn't mean to, but I've heard some strange findings like this, so I can't resist saying a few words. They refer to Mr. Sokolović and Mr. Zaim Backović. With most others, with a good deal of the others, I agree with the technical changes to the law, scans, thefts, etc., in that segment I would not replicate, but I find the wording given by Mr Sokolović when he says the Bošnjak are most endangered. I find it a little strange that the most numerous people who are four times more numerous than Hrvat, according to the last 2013 census, are the most endangered. What conclusion can we draw from this? I don't think it goes to the Bosniak people, and I won't be so rude as to say it out loud, let him conclude it himself. As for the genetic code mentioned by my colleague Backović, I am only interested in what generation would I go to or rather say to which century one such genetic code, because then I would only be worth Mr Sokolović's claim that the Bošnjak are the most endangered. So, there's often a reference here to counting blood cells, and I'm against it, but it's also often pointed out that a nation has no spare homeland and that it loves Bosnia and Herzegovina most, and that's why I want to say that there's no parameter by which someone can say that they prefer Bosnia and Herzegovina or less, and say what I often say, that nobody here loves their home that is Bosnia and Herzegovina more than I love my own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23010	Thank you. I'm closing the debate now. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23011	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23012	I didn't turn anyone off.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23013	Correction of the wrong quote and...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23014	And as far as you're concerned, Your Honor, you've already had two corrections, a record. In the last session you had one, and in the last one, that's two. So, we're having a debate... ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23015	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23016	Please, I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. After the debate is concluded, we have a proposal for a conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club, should we read the proposal for a conclusion? 22 The SDP Club of Representatives of BiH requests that immediately after the end of the debate on item 2 of the agenda – a request from the People's House to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives No: 01-02-1-133/17, as of 25.07.2017, shall access the statement under this item of the agenda. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23017	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23018	In conclusion, shall we vote right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23019	As far as you're concerned, of the 38 present – for 12... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat the vote. Of the 38 present – for 14, versus 17, abstentions 7. There's no general majority. The proposal for a conclusion did not receive the required majority. So there will be a vote, as at all points, following the end of the session of the House of Representatives. As far as we're concerned, we've finished point two, we're moving to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018 – Proposer: BiH Presidency, Act No 01,02- 02-1-2882/17, of 14.12.2017. (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23023	I thank the chairman. So it's very clear even though you didn't do it to call on Article 112. The Rules of Procedure which, in its position (4), allow the House to decide, if it considers that it is a law of minor scope or degree of complexity, that the Proposal for a Law should also be considered in the second reading, so immediately. However, attitude (3) says that only after adoption of the bill in the first reading does the deadlines for submitting amendments begin. Therefore, this attitude (4) vote can be held only after the first reading debate has been held and possibly after the law has been adopted in the first reading. Until then, we can't vote on something that's just hypothetical, still, the possibility that this will ever be adopted in the first reading. So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure is if you intend to put this right now your proposal to the vote. First, the Rules of Procedure go to the debate, the vote on the law in the first reading, and only then, if the first reading passes, can we speak out on what you have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23024	I thank the honourable representative. There's no such thing as a dilemma. I just wanted to ask if we wanted to because I offered the proposal so that we could adopt it later on, and we should open our mouths to the proposal, the first reading debate. After you, we'll give this proposal a vote. So, I've already said we're opening a debate on the Budget Proposal even though the business provisions you've called for, you know there's another business provision that speaks of a special procedure when it comes to the adoption of the budget. I hope we understand each other. Here, there's an open debate on the bill in the first reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on the bill. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Now, can you please tell me... on the business side that we've been waiting for, that someone couldn't apply for that? 24 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23027	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23028	And if you knew we were to interrupt the 11:45 session for the arrival of the President of the Republic and the obligations of the members of the College, it would be best if I took a break right away, so, by 13 o'clock. At 13 we continue to discuss the draft budget law. Dear MPs and MPs, please take your seats, proceed with the session. Representative Mirsad Isaković called for the debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23030	I thank the chairman. I hope there's a quorum, yeah. Of course, I would like to welcome everyone and wish for the successful work of today’s session because it is a very difficult agenda. So what I'm saying is, let me say a few sentences about the principles of this budget. I find it inadmissible to discuss the budget in January and in mid-January of the month when the fiscal year started and to discuss the budget during that period. So what is important is that the budget should begin to be processed from somewhere in the middle of the sixth month and by the 12th month should be found in the parliamentary procedure. So this budget was supposed to have its 10 steps, in principle that from budget requirements to public debate, is it, and budget proposals in December, that we are now discussing it here. But of course it wasn't and there wasn't, therefore, a public debate. What is important to me is that this is the most important document of a state, and we haven't had a public debate. I think citizens are very interested in the budget, because it's only about public funds. On that basis, I think that this budget, when it comes to principles, has its own, therefore, shortcomings. For these reasons, I was in the Finance and Budget Committee, therefore, and against, precisely for these reasons. To go back to the budget. So, this year's budget, as last year, has second credit obligations more than it amounts to 950 million, so to finance Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. So whether it's good or not, we're paying more annuity than the amount of funding for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we are discussing the budget, then our income side also has shortcomings that we point to every 25 years, and this is the fourth budget we are discussing. So, for the fourth time, we're having an emergency procedure, a quick procedure, or at one session, we're also deciding on the first and second readings. When it comes to amendments, we have very little room for it. If I just said that the public debate should, that it has an opinion and a public opinion, because it is the means that come from a single account, so it is 75 million that come from indirect taxes, then we must bear in mind that MPs themselves are unable to submit amendments if we have such a small period of time. I'll remind you that there are only 15,000 numbers here that should be read, so limiting to five minutes really creates anxiety for those who want to discuss the budget itself. So, on the revenue side, we have for the fourth time one situation that we have a drastic increase in income... of 8%, and it's ranging between 8% and 12% of the income from giving up citizenship. I think that's what we of the SBB Club have been discussing for the fourth time, and I think it's problematic, and we haven't done anything yet on that basis. The charges for transport via Bosnia and Herzegovina are very low, one million and 600 and something, and only the credit base in which we put it there to settle obligations has reached the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina of 3 million and something comes from these funds. I don't understand how we're going to pay for it, so it's not clear to me personally. What's particularly problematic is the fact that we haven't had a single mark for the third year from the succession in income, and we know that on the 14th 12th, we had a session and we don't have any information on this basis. Article 14 of this Law also states that buying facilities in East Sarajevo, Sarajevo and Mostar will be financed from these funds, and here we have zero in revenue. So it is not clear to me if these are funds from a previous period why it is not explained in the light of this budget. What, when we came to the expense, I wouldn't have taken too much of a detour. We have a lot of objections to Article 10, to Article 14, let's say when it comes to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, that we know, when it comes to current transfers, or liquid grenades, why we don't have what we're doing with... and on what basis they're being assigned. When it comes to Article 13, when it comes to restructure budget items in the budget We don't have an item anywhere to restructure those items, so it comes to you. [[the speaker is warned on time]] here at Parliament and in this Parliament to say what's going on with it. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, we adopt the budget, we have... a realisation in the course of the fiscal year itself, we don't, so on that basis, no income. And finally, you're going to allow me just one more sentence, I'm going to be very brief, it's a little time for this problem, I think I should have one session for this, but we're going to base ourselves, we're going to invest an amendment on the funds of the reserve that are being determined, so, according to the 300,000 Marks Presidency and the 180 thousand Council of Ministers, we're going to invest that amendment and redistribute the funds, so in some, we're going to suggest that... the funds be in some other purpose, which we've also proposed by amendment. Thank you very much, but I'd like to ask you that these topics take a lot more space, so we don't limit them to five minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23031	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23032	I thank the Honorable Chairman. 26 As counterpart Isaković said, it is a short time for us to be able to comment more seriously on the proposal for the 2018 budget for the reasons it is already highlighted, on a very important financial document for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for the reason it is a complex and extensive document. We have more than 800 pages of text A4 with numbers to view, we need to make an insight into the proposed materials, and make a contribution to the adoption of this document. I decided to cut it short in two or three sentences. In my view, the biggest problem and the limitation of this budget is the financial framework that has been established in advance and which does not change, that is, there is no political will to change, increase, and all for the purpose of the creativity and contribution of the state level to improving the economic and economic environment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We know in what situation our business entrepreneurs, agricultural production, employment and all that is related to the construction of the economic environment, and also to the reminders, we know that the Council of Ministers, at the beginning of its term of office, was in a position to focus its work on the economic, economic and economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course in accordance with its competences. In line with such aspirations and such intentions, I believe that there should have been a political will to think and analyse, to seriously consider and analyse the increase of the financial framework for the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As this has not come to pass, this is an empty administrative budget that deals only with the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and nothing more. And where, then, our creativity, where is our representative/mbassies contribution in the sense that we're installing our vision, eventually installing it into this, as I said, completely administrative document. But also in this administrative document, I have some questions for the promoter. I'd like to know where the promoter is, who's the conquistador, and can he listen to me? If he's not here, then I don't see the point of continuing my discussion. Is there a promoter, an authorised promoter who listens to my discussion, because if I had time to fly through 800 pages, then I guess the promoter should have the understanding to listen to our 3-4 minutes we have to say about this financial document. The Honorable Chairman, if he has any suggestions for me to continue, if we don't realize that he doesn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23033	Please finish your discussion nicely, you'll get an answer. You've got...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23034	Thank you very much. Then I ask the Proposer in absentia, because I am not sure that it hears me, how it is possible that this budget does not explain the requests of the budget users in a way that makes this explanation clear to us MPs/allegates or to me MP/allegate to be clear and unequivocal. What do I want to say to a promoter I don't see, I don't know if he can hear me? I want to tell him that I have analysed the demands of the budget users and concluded that they have not been put on such a flat-rate basis, and that there was indeed reason for all the requests from the budget users to be more detailed. I understand this programming budgeting, I'm actually trying to understand budget programming, but it has to be followed by a more detailed text, by the text itself, not that we have to conclude from those figures what is not included by these requirements, because the promoter, who is not, who is not here, does not appear... _________(?) 27 [[no microphone turned on]] looking at the promoter, thank you, he stated on page 118, that 333,727,000 KM was required by non-acceptable budgetary users. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And then we were obliged to look into all these demands, so I took an example from the Department of Defense to see what the Ministry of Defense was looking for and what was not justified. And I haven't found any valid reason to completely reject their programs. And I therefore believe that the conclusion that I am going to propose is necessary, and I do not have time to deal with it in detail, i.e. to present my detailed analysis of this draft budget, I will propose a conclusion. And I have to tell the chairman that it's not good that all the time when the most important points are you cut the discussion to five minutes. I propose, therefore, the conclusion – The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks The BiH Council of Ministers should represent an increase in the financial framework for the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions during the next period, in line with real needs shown by budgetary users, when preparing, agreeing and adopting the Global Framework for the fiscal balance and policies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23036	Thank you. We have, is this a breach of the Rules of Procedure, is it giving up or, because it was once removed?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23037	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23038	Before you get the word for breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'd like to speak to the counsel. As regards the proposings, as the BiH presidency, this agenda item has been mandated by the finance and vault ministers to explain the law in question on behalf of the Presidency. The finance minister apologized to the College for continuing the session, as it currently has obligations with the president of the Republic of Croatia to visit. Immediately after the meeting, or official commitments, he returned to the session, and we contacted the Office, they said that the deputy minister should be here any minute. Here, I don't know if you're happy, I think the others are following everything. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23039	I thank the chairman. Ma, I wanted to wait first... the argument, however, the Rules of Procedure is, unfortunately, clear, respecting all the circumstances you have stated, Article 74(3) of the Rules of Procedure very clearly and unequivocally saying that in the absence of the motion for an act on it it is not discussed unless the House decides otherwise. So there are absolutely no conditions here to continue the debate on this agenda point until the motionor, or the authorised representative, appears, any minister...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23040	Now, in order to end the debate I'm giving, on a proposal from the College, a half-hour break. So, I'll see you at 14:15. At 14:15 we proceed with the session. 28 Since we have a quorum we continue with the session. We have a representative, Senad Šepić, not here, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. jasmin Emrić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23042	I thank the Honorable Chairman. In my discussion, I have asked you the Honorable Chairman to introduce me to whether or not an authorised promoter is present. You answered me in a way that would explain why there was no proposing, and that wasn't my question. It is therefore necessary to conclude that during my discussion, there was no presence of an authorised promoter. Since he's here, I warmly welcome him, and perhaps now we can overcome this situation in a way that you can deliver a copy of the record with my complete discussion, I suggest that he get to know the same thing about what was the subject of my discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23043	Thank you. You did not have the opportunity to correct, or abuse, the business provisions because I did not discuss this item on the agenda, I only told you from the point of view of the chairman what we had in terms of the presence and follow-up of the session. So, once again, I understand that you have abused the Rules of Procedure. We continue the debate, MP Salko Sokolović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23044	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Here, we are today, unfortunately, discussing the most important document for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the most important financial document, in one environment that is not suitable for work, since, behold, we are burdened, in some way, by visiting the President of the Republic of Croatia, this, we interrupt the session, we have no continuity, but unfortunately we are discussing this document in, me, the unknown procedure, is whether. It is neither urgent nor shortened procedure, far from being a regular procedure, since, here, we have some suggestion that we will discuss another reading today, with some shortened amendment phase, etc. It's all a very bad atmosphere, and a very important document for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But, well, it's not the first time, and we're kind of used to discussing many important legal solutions in that atmosphere, so here's the budget. Unfortunately, the BiH Fiscal Council adopted a Global Fiscal Framework that re-fixed Budget Bosnia and Herzegovina, frozen, to 950 million. The budget was returned in 2008 in fact to budget spending, is, in 2018, as we had in 2008. And I think it's a very bad thing, that it's a fundamental principle that I personally and myself in the Independent bloc don't want to be a supporter of such a legal project. This is very bad for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we think it is an imminent weakness of the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But I will repeat what I said in 2012 when we adopted the budget, and all the years to come, that it is certainly jeopardising Bosnia and Herzegovina's path towards the European Union and NATO. That I was right to, or that we were right that the budgetary framework had to be broader confirms that in December of last year 29 I heard from the president of Republika Srpska's entity, Mr Dodik, who says the biggest success of the government in Republika Srpska is keeping the budgetary framework at the level of 2008. This is in favour of what I have said in advance, that such a budget will not strengthen state institutions but will endanger Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European pathway and NATO. Supporting such a budget means significantly reducing state capacities in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and meeting other requirements of the Euro-Atlantic agenda. However, in the period from 2008 to today, we have a situation in entities that are literally doubled budgets. It may not be as black as it is black that part, or most of it, of these funds has just been spent in increasing the administration in entities, not in solving the accumulated social and other problems in entities. I have, in addition to this fundamental remark, and this is a framework, and an observation when it comes to the allocation of funds, and we will act as amendments in the next amendment period, and here I would only mention the earlier remarks that I still consider Article 17. The Budget Act in paragraphs (3) and (4) should be eliminated and six people in this country spent more than 540 thousand KM or multiplied by four years of mandate over two million marks. So am I. Counting that, at the last session, there will be an amendment phase in front of the Club to submit an amendment on this matter, and we have still a few amendments prepared, but we will do so in this debate that will follow. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23045	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23046	I thank the chairman. So, I'm sorry there's no Civilian Minister present, but here, I hope someone will pass on or the stenogram will read. So, as early as May 2017, I addressed the Honorable Minister of Civil Affairs with the requirement to separate some of the money from the border funds for the purchase of GPS bracelets for children with autism, i.e. for those with developmental difficulties. At that time, the answer in writing was delivered to me by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and the minister himself for this speaker promised me that the Health Department of the Ministry of Civil Affairs would finance the purchase of a GPS bracelet in the coming financial year, this year, in 2018. So, when you take the draft budget on the agenda today, of course what Minister Osmanović has promised absolutely does not exist. With this in mind, I will submit an amendment that, in this second phase and consider, which, here for information for colleagues and colleagues, will be the content to provide for persons with developmental difficulties, i.e. with an autism of 200(?) KM which would be a border fund for NGOs involved in child protection, i.e. persons with developmental difficulties, in order to access the purchase of GPS bracelets. The second thing I want, and I will suggest through the conclusion, is that the budget is around 950 million again, and given what the Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, and all the entities of defence that they signed through the Modernisation Plan, in order to make sure that, in addition to the Defence Act, we are bound by Article 84, in order to meet all our obligations and activities towards joining NATO, it is necessary to increase the annual budget by 2.5% each year, which is not the case now. So the question arises where we stopped it, or 30, why the Ministry of Defence doesn't have this initiative to increase budgets to realize what was signed by the Modernisation Plan. Accordingly, I will also propose a conclusion that is in line with the Defence Act, Article 84, which would oblige the Council of Ministers to make maximum efforts to increase the budget by 2.5% or to restructure these funds from one purpose to the Ministry of Defence, which, if so, would activate the Modernisation Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23047	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23048	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. So this budget that we have ahead of us it paints the vision of the people who lead the country, especially the promoters, how they see us sitting here, how they see the country they represent and how they see their policy, at least what they say and what they write about such proposals. So anyone who takes a fair look at this will see that what's written in these proposals and what the leaders of this country say is completely two different things. So this text here does not follow the political messages of the country's leaders, there is no strengthening and development of the state, the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there is no strengthening of the European path. So those who swear to be great Europeans, or those others protecting the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, both show it through the budget, as they send us. And what exactly do I want to say about this? So, the fact is that this kind of budget shows the tendency of the current government to systematically and institutionally weaken the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, while strengthening other levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So all we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and its cantons, and entities and Brcko District, and all the municipalities, it's all Bosnia and Herzegovina. What is called the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which leads the European path, is developing the framework in which all of this is further to be developed is the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The relationship towards the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the following – when the fiscal framework was made in 2008 then 4.5 billion funds were raised in the account of this, the single account of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and we had... million. In 2018, we have 7.5 billion, said this finance minister, so this year we expect 7.5 billion in the account, and we have 950 million again. We used to have 18% of the planned funds from those collected for the state, and now we have, say, 10%. Those who were in 2011, I was one of the MPs who was then in the party that came out of power because she disagreed that someone confirms the fiscal framework of 2008, then they talked about putting the state in a wheelchair, making what they're making, so these people who run the country today, they've made a much worse, much worse budget because today you have a much bigger opportunity to grab the institutions of the state, and you're proposing a budget that's at the level of the 2008 one. So we're talking about what policies are one thing in public and that these policies could be held in power, only what they do, raise those tensions, fight people with one another, fight for the Srbin, for the Hrvat, for the Bošnjak. So, and that manipulation, that fraud and that lie will be the best people to watch this, who listen to this and who need to be familiar with what the current government is doing to see through one of these relationships. This budget that we now have here before us is unanimously adopted, people who fight for the European path, all that European way, every day through the possibility of institutions dealing with the European path, is being reduced. These others who say that fighting for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, every day they reduce, pay, what is called, what is called, what is not a state, pay and 31 of their listeners at different levels of government and actually we have this situation in the country when we need to do something concrete, raise tensions, mention various conflicts, various confrontations, various problems. I think that people in our country need to know everything and, therefore, I think that if we want to get out of this kind of trouble, we have to go to the end of it precisely and clearly strip them and put them where they belong. Remember, it's one thing to go out in front of people, lie, manipulate people, keep them in fear, and the other thing is what you're actually doing. What they're doing today, so the leaders, the people who are proposing this, is that they've reduced the state to 10%, look out, the state is 10% today. When the Fiscal Framework was made, then 18% of the funding was planned for the state, now it has 10%. And if this government stays like this, led by Izetbegović, Čović, Dodik, these leaders, then the state will go to 5% in the next five years. Here I see, the chairman laughing, one of the people sitting in college. Of course, it is important for him to sit there, to schedule all his, first, second, third, fifth and seventh knees, where the state, where the institutions, where the budgets are, of course, have no answer to one such policy. The only way you're going to try to maintain that policy, to scare these people back again is by giving some problems about Srbin, about Hrvat, about some third entity, about some holidays in Republika Srpska. What people in this country, Srbin, and Hrvat, and Bošnjak and all people living in Bosnia and Herzegovina need to know is that, that is the relationship of current leaders The current leaders have now sent us the budget, this is the state budget and we're talking about the Budget of BiH institutions, they've brought it down to below 10%. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Eight years ago when we were building the fiscal frame was 18%. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Is there anyone to come out and explain to us in this sense what the trend is, where Bosnia and Herzegovina is going? With leaders like this, so Bosnia and Herzegovina is getting smaller and smaller, There is more and more of their private space, and less of the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of the European path that they are truly in favour of. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23049	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23050	I would correct the misquote of counterpart Šepić, who said that in 2012, or '11, in that period when the SDA budget of the message was adopted was to place the state in a wheelchair with a budget of 950 million. So it's not incorrect, but it's incomplete. They said then and this, that the 950m budget is an anti-patriot budget, that the 950m budget can only be adopted by those who do not like Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the 950m-million-dollar budget stops NATO's path, that the EU's 950m budget stops the way, that adoption of such a budget means putting a lock on the work of institutions, that it is unforgivable little and that only enemies of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina can do so. So, colleague Šepiću, I apologize to you, I don't think you've said incorrectly, I've only completed your otherwise great presentation on this subject, on which I really have nothing to add, I can only sign it. Those who, in 2011 and 2012, this was a small, anti-patriot attack on the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina five years later, and I call on the media and the public to be witnesses, to vote because it did not suit them then, which only shows that, as they do today, they have manipulated the public.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23051	Thank you. Deputy Šefik Džaferović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, buddy. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23052	Mr. Magazinović, correct but incomplete. We live in a country that has such a system of decisions that the existing decision is difficult to change. Once the decision is changed, it can be difficult to change later. Now watch out, when you were the leader of these processes, when your president was prime minister, when you were the essence of the Fiscal Council, you changed the right decision at the time and brought to the budgetary framework as it is today. After he was then changed, it is difficult to find strength, given the current political relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to change that. And always take care of it, don't count on forgetting, on a brief mind, we all know and we can talk about it, about that problem and about that time. And Mr. Šepić, you are for this budget, you need to check here in the records, I think you voted, and for the 2015 budget, I don't know what it's like when it comes to the 2016 budget, that's when it doesn't bother you. You were an active participant in the process within the SDA, followed the SDA policy, suddenly you're a new face today, a new phenomenon in Bosnia and Herzegovina's political life, and don't count on it to be forgotten. You said that we who are now in a position to look only at keeping our positions, I could say first of all about you. And to the extent that you've changed the political party to try to keep your position. But I'm sure you won't do it in these elections. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23053	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23054	Well, then, briefly. First, the replica of this to Mr. Džaferović, once someone makes something difficult to correct, is. So here you have this species today, as it is called, of this capacity to see what you're showing and what you're doing in that sense, except for what you're really trying and proving that you can do worse than what Lagumdžija did in certain things. So, it seems to you, that you said that I voted, that it seems bad to you. I didn't vote, so I haven't voted for these solutions all the time. And I believe, therefore, as I am saying today, the way you run the country, and you are the ones who go in there, who have us, while I was in the U.S.A., you are the same and the legitimacy, and the credibility, and some of my honest policies sold for a fist, as you would say, for a handful of dinar. So, a new appearance and a new face, it is before us, and I am certainly a newer appearance and a newer face than what you are to Mr. Džaferović, and let's go, there is politics, and we will see what will happen next and how who will offer it. The fact that you have the capacity and what you are actually able to do is you confirm every day, and the fact is that you and this country and the people I belong to, and you belong, have brought to the worst and the poorest position from war to this day. It's the result of your policy. This is what people watch what I'm saying today and I can listen to this one and I can see if he's rightŠefik Gesenik Džarefović or Senad Šepić. And what I did, I wanted positions to trade with you, so, and to be someone who would give my soul and my cheek for some of your positions, I could do it the way you did when you lost at the congress, and then begged you to return to some positions when you lost to Tihić. I'm not that man, so I have important principles in my life. So, me, and those things, I didn't leave the party but are people like you shut me out of the political party because you didn't have any other answer, except for that blasphemy. First you steal people at that convention, then you shut them out of the party. And you think you'll get support in such a policy? Well, then, that kind of policy 33 attempts to keep the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina down to 10% of the total funds, and on the other hand the Bosniak people to the worst position in this country from war to today. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23055	Thank you. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23056	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Šepić has moved away from the agenda. This is now, the whole one, one speech dedicated personally to Mr. Džaferović and the party of a democratic action he deeply regrets, which is not actually in the Party of Democratic Action, and it's not because he didn't have a function. While he was part of the Party of Democratic Action and was a decision-maker, the party was a great match for him, but I am not going to step away, to walk into a trap, to get away from the agenda point, but he goes to the personality of the chairman and makes claims that are, therefore, incorrect. The story of employment on the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth and other knees, he has at least credibility and the right to say it, because the difference is drastic between MPs. There are representatives who existed before entering this Parliamentary Assembly as built figures, built lawyers, built judges, built doctors, such as Mr Džaferović and many other colleagues, and there are people who have only become within the party and within the entry into politics and have then graduated from colleges and, apparently, postgraduate studies and everything else. Therefore, at least Mr. Šepić was called here today to challenge Mr. Džaferović's legitimacy, bringing Bosnia and Herzegovina's black state. He was an active participant in the process, but he has no right to be within such an important item of the agenda, such as the debate on the budget, collapses, tries to destroy credibility, of course not successfully, because the public knows who Senad Šepić is and who he isŠefik and who he is, Džaferović, please do not allow a distance from such an important agenda point. I believe that you will take care of it, and these insults only speak of one who was a previous debater.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23057	Here, before the next advocate gets the word, I'd like to say that as far as not keeping the agenda, this doesn't apply to the corrections of the wrong allegations, so through the discussions we have to abide by the agenda. And the other thing, which one of the MPs, that is, hangs on to some things and through the corrections of the quote corrects something that, of course, has nothing to do with the agenda, so judge it, and I will also make my contribution as chairman, in all of that, but I can't take away anyone's right to correct the wrong assumption, no matter what it refers to, it is presented in the debate over that point and should stick to it. So, here, once again, I ask and appeal to all MPs to abide, first and foremost, by the Rules of Procedure, and also by the Code, not to be offended, the debate on this and on all other points can be done and should be done in one cultural, civilized, dignified way and the way everyone whose trust we enjoy in this House requires. If nothing, for the dignity of this House. Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23058	Taking into account the chairman, about what you said, very briefly to Džaferović. Šepić explained well to you when the budget framework was set and you know that it was not 2011-2012 and instead of continuing... 34 _________(?) Saša [[no microphone turned on]] In 2008, so they know I mean everyone in this room, just that's obviously what someone doesn't want to know. So, to shorten the debate, it would be correct to give the public information whether you deceived them in 2012 or are misleading them in 2018 or in 2012 and 2018? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23061	Representative Sadik Ahmetović, rectification of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23062	I think it's all wrong here and they've talked about the importance of this document, and I see very few people, fellow MPs who have applied to discuss this important document. I think you speak personally of people, so you shouldn't, but if someone provokes that kind of discussion, then don't expect anyone to shut up. Everyone behind them has their own résumé and he can't hide, and what he's done and what he hasn't done. And to whom I was, here, to go back, this which, this replica of Mr. Šepić and Mr. Džaferović, I was making the SDA, turned out to be made for the career of Šefik Džaferović, who later entered it and corrupted along with his colleagues that, behold, some colleagues had to leave or had to be expelled. I'm sure, Mr. Džaferović, there are people in the SDA who don't think so, but they can't say yet because you're putting enormous pressure on people. You used the state for personal accounts, you destroy democracy in this country, you deal with people personally. There are those who fear, there are those who are not afraid. And don't...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23063	Please, counselor, stick to the agenda and correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23064	Stop that kind, stop that kind of debate. And I'll talk about the budget later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23065	I'm asking all the MPs once again, now find out how we behave. This correction of the wrong quote was absolutely personal, but nowhere 35 is that said, quite something else has been made. What can we do? Are we always going to do that for everyone, and you keep asking questions, and you're saying, you're warning the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, etc., who's doing this? Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23066	Madam Chairman, I'm correcting the wrong assumption, I'm not destroying anyone's credibility, I'm just defending mine. I didn't mention anyone here, except I mentioned the numbers. I know that weak people with no cheeks, no capacity, no potential, no numbers, and numbers, Madam Chairman, are what they are.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23067	Please, and I now warn you as a representative to state whose and who you are correcting.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23068	I am correcting Mr. Šefik Džaferović's wrong quote and by Mrs. Kapetanović. I'm not destroying anyone's credibility. So, I was saying that in 2008, there was a fiscal framework, and then there was 18% for the state. This policy that, in fact, it's in the head of someone to be chairman, someone to get another compensation or to sit in the House of Peoples, so you'll get it, here's what you'll have. It bothers Šepić when he has attitudes in the SDA, it bothers when he is not in the SDA. I didn't mention any of these people, I was talking numbers, and they're going back somewhere to tell me how I used to do something and what I did. So what's the fact and what we all need to know, today we're talking about the budget, so this policy that this policy has reduced, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has reduced to below 10%. It's that weak policy, I'm talking about that policy, I was breaking up with that policy when I was in there with her, and now I'm breaking up when I'm out of it. And, therefore, if someone has in that sense something on that side of the discussion I'm always ready to discuss, but to narrow it down to some personal stuff, let it go to time. These people, who are going to decide all of this, will have space, let them decide, and let them do what they think is the smartest, but what are the facts, we are discussing today the 10% budget. Ten years ago, when we were telling some other stories, it was 18%, and those people who are now running the state, they've brought my country down to 10%. That's what we all need to hear today, to say, and then to decide who should decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23069	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23070	Here, I'll try to get things back where I think they should go back to that budget debate. I think it's personal speaking to the MPs again, without entering the essence of the budget structure, it won't solve any problems. The budget framework was defined at a time when I was the finance minister and then I dealt with it as a representative of the majority, and today I can speak of it as a representative of the opposition. You know, when someone professionally involved in the team makes a creation, it takes a long time. Others simply had no arguments. It's just that the more money on the state level, the more state it is. That's not true. There was a requirement at that time for the budgetary framework to be 36 billion and 200 million, and for those who dispute the 950 million budget framework, I remind you to take the Budget Implementation Act and to see that with this framework, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina end up in surplus every year. And then I was saying -- why would government institutions at the state level be in the surplus, and miners or, I don't know, someone who's unhappy with strike, destroying the Federation government or some other institution in any entity. So a man must be a magician to deprive financial resources of all levels of the situation so that they can function. And you colleagues looking for more money for the institutions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina government ask if the Parliamentary Assembly has little money within 950 million? Is there more money to be paid for the work of this House? Are we limited by budgetary means to work more intensively and better in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? It's not. I even talked to international financial institutions who also said -- well, you know, it should be a wider budget, I begged them and told them, and you know what institution was in the biggest surplus. The one you're referring to right now, it's the Department of Defense. Then I said, give me a hand. that people have the competence to spend the money they have in the budget. [[the speaker is warned on time]] This is where only the struggle is fought. for capital investment, who's going to make, where, which object because it can be tendered in different ways, I don't know what else to do. [[the speaker was warned on time]] I think this budgetary framework is enough for normal functioning of institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. All other competences, developmental, social, pensioners, are at the level of the entity. If that's all Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we can't show that kind of egotism or state autism. If there's anyone who... that a budget user needs to be re-located, here you go, which is why the debate is being held. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, that creation, I'm proud of it, because it was such a megalomania that we said that all seven billion should make a budget... the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina Of a kind used in [[the speaker is warned on time]] [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23071	Time, though.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23072	So I congratulate people for not giving up on that concept because it's good. The time will come when institutions have competences and the need to spend more money, to get a bigger framework. As long as institutions do business with surpluses, all other theories fall into the water, because Bosnia and Herzegovina is what's across from us, the Federation government, and the Republika Srpska entity, including the Brcko District, and they should survive, but it seems...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23073	Thank you, counsel, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23074	Excuse me...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23075	Don't do it anyway, it doesn't make sense. Representative Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23076	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. 37 Well, here is the replica of Mr. Džaferović in the part where, I point out, I believe he knows this, that the Law on fiscal policy, in Article 4, says that this Global fiscal framework can be changed according to the collected funds of the Directorate for indirect taxation. And that's exactly the percentage Mr. Šepić spoke of earlier, that with, here, numerically, from 4.5 billion to 7.5 billion, he's talking about that being discussed, but he's also talking about what I've been talking about for a long time, since I've been four years, is it, as far as I'm here in Parliament and this part of the government, that SNSD is part of the government. Because he who deploys the money, he is the government, and apparently the SNSD has its representatives in the Fiscal Council in two men, the Prime Minister and the finance minister, and he's deploying these funds. Therefore, when power was formed, you should think about how and in what way, this Article 4 applies if you are going to enter a serious story with those who are part of the government. And as for Mr Špirić, this country needs funds, so if someone thinks they're employed in the Armed Forces, the state's security institutions need to keep 600 marks of wages and say that they have the means, that they can survive, and not as representatives of the state institution, here I am talking about the military, and I'm going to put one amendment to it, that they should have a higher salary, and if 600 marks are enough for people to live with their families, separated from their homes, then that's his thinking. It's my thinking and thinking of us in the Independent bloc, and it used to be the Party's position of democratic action, is that this, that money must be increased towards members of the armed forces. And therefore, here is enough reason to extend the budget framework, to take these funds. We talked a lot when the floods came and the fires came that we had to do something to provide the institutions that They should take care of the citizens at that moment. [[the speaker is warned on time]] We were talking about the Armed Forces to get them some material supplies like air tractors, to put out the fires, etc. So we're just talking about when something happens, and when we have a budget and we have to put it in the budget, and we're going to break it by about 30 million, 30 million out of 7.5 billion, then it's a problem and then it's touching the stability of the state. No, it's a weakness and I'm responsible for saying it's a weakness. And, look, I'll work on it, if I warn you anything, if I can't change the fact that it's such a condition that we have to change it. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23077	Thank you. Representative Asim Sarajlić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23078	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I rarely answer, but, behold, I had to report for the correction of my colleague Senad Šepić's wrong quote. So it is clear that Mr. Šepić is in a new political project, that he is the leader of the project, it is clear that the budget is a topic where new policies should be promoted, but this is how we talk about the past period and time he spent in the Party of Democratic Action, and he has spent a lot in very significant positions both in the party and in this country. So just reminders for, therefore, seven years in these benches in front of the SDA, not in front of some new policy, before that Deputy Minister at the Council of Ministers and that, the Minister of Civil Affairs, but we'll talk about it when the campaigns arrive. So it's clear that this is a political story and it's undeniable that everyone has the right to freely express their views. Mr. Šepić's political standing through the academy, through the association of young people, as he came to it through Parliament, the first job, so Mr. Senad Šepić, was Deputy State Minister of Civil Affairs Mr. Sredoje Nović. So, on this other occasion, but I call on Mr. Šepić and all of us to preserve, both our 38 dignity, so the dignity of all of us 42 here in Parliament, because we have passed, as fellow Magazinović notes, various stages here, at least senior colleagues remember, various discussions, various coalitions, but yet one level of humanity, one level of dignity should be preserved. So that every future discussion of colleagues from the new bloc, and especially the leader of the new bloc, Mr. Šepić, where he refers to the SDA and the past, and to some leaders, and to some teams, uh, I will react in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23079	Thank you. Representative Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23080	Well, I'm correcting, here's a false quote from fellow Špirić, who, I'm glad to hear here that SNSD is also governmental with HDZ and with the SDA, and that through the attack, it defends the state budget. The budget is not safe but it's about what you said, the wrong staff at the head of the agency, the ministries that can't plan the budget, and these personnel, again, I remind you, are your years from the SNSD, from the SDA, from the HDZ, and they're the ones that led to the fact that we're not planning the budget in the right way, that money is not being spent in the right way, although, of course, it needs to increase expenditure for certain ministries and for certain expenditures that exist at the state level, but it's evident that we now have a majority that is a little different and that makes already here the SDA, HDZ and SNSD.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23081	I thank Representative jasmin Emrić, the correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23082	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I deeply appreciate everything that has been done so far to financially stabilise Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions' budget, as explained by counterpart Špirić, but I would like to remind the current facts contained in this document. In this document on page 112, the promoter stated that the surplus is somewhere around 60 million KM, and page 118 states that budget beneficiaries' requests 333,727,000 KM or 36% higher than the 2017 budget, which means that there are budget beneficiaries' demands to increase the financial framework. Are these requests justified or unwarranted someone should be analysed in depth and in detail, but by carrying out an insight into these requests I have assessed that there is very much justification for the individual items in the budget...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23083	I pray for silence in...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23084	there is, therefore, justification for the increase in individual items in the budget and for these requirements to be analysed far better and better. For example, the defence ministry's request totals, the balance of the request is 539,848,000 KM. And what we have here in this Budget Proposal, we have the following, in Article 3 on page 7, which is the Ministry of Defence of 283,893,000 KM, so smaller by 1,796,000 KM compared to the 2017 budget. And what does their balance sheet contain? It contains 39 concrete programs. What are those programs? Well gentlemen, these are, in particular, programmes to develop and implement system documents that have proposed activities, design and application of conceptual, normative and doctrinal systems of documents, planning analysis and reports, management of personal resources, management of material resources. If we won't give it to the Ministry of Defense how do we expect the Ministry of Defence to manage personal resources, material resources, etc. The programme is, for example, 15,655,000 KM, not approved, not budgeted according to their request. operational objective, achievement [[the speaker is warned on time]] international co-operation and strengthening military diplomatic... [[the speaker is warned on time]] Bosnia and Herzegovina abroad. No funds for this operational objective, no means for proposed activities Presenting Bosnia and Herzegovina abroad, meeting the obligations of the BiH Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces under documents from the NATO and Partnership for Peace Programme, etc., etc. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I can see that these demands are justified and that part, not entirely, should have been partially met by these requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23085	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23086	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I referirati to what Mr. Šepić said, so first of all, because he said something that is not the point of the agenda, but he so beautifully presented his colleagues from the SDA that I am sorry that he did not speak at the previous point and I expect him to support the Election Law, because he suggested that relations be democratisationd in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23087	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23088	Just for a little while, I just want to tell my colleagues that the budget is not a wish, but a matter of real possibilities that all levels of government function, for some large, for some small framework, but I say that all the activities of the institutions are carried out within this budget. And if by any chance we had the strength to cut our salaries to the MPs, the framework could have been a little smaller, because for these salaries and this kind of effect I don't think we've justified it, that's one thing. And secondly, I've made a lot of budgets in my life in these institutions, while I've been making budgets, and the official draftr of the budget is the Presidency, then my colleague Bećirović was a male secretary to a member of the presidency who supported these budgets. When are they, when are they credible? _________(?) ... What the... [[no microphone turned on]] 40 Bećirović Damir, was Željka Komšić's secretary, and at that time the budget was working, and this framework is not working for him today. So, let people understand once that there are limited financial resources, and if there are needs greater, there are always needs greater than, and in America, than the budget framework, but there is a division of what is there. And I'm pleased it's not, and we from SNSD support this budget only as it moves in real terms and there's no framework broken down by 750 million that's... from indirect taxes. It doesn't matter what level of government we put at risk, it doesn't matter. And that's why I think it's here, and it's distributed within the budget whether someone thinks someone needs a million, two, it's a matter of parliamentary debate, but you don't talk about it, to say take it off this item to the defense, or move it from this item to police structures, etc. I think there's been a lot of effort here, and I think the Ministry came up with a real proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23090	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23091	I thank the chairman. I think, first of all, that you should have reacted, it is not correct to call your colleagues here members of the Bureau, it is well known that the esteemed colleague Bećirović was an adviser to the Bureau and there is nothing controversial about it, but it is not a nice way of treating her colleagues. My replica normally refers to a respected colleague, Bećirović, who condemned the SNSD's support of the budget. I think it's a good and respected fellow Špirić has just given a reason why, because in these three years, exactly, the budgetary framework has not changed, it has remained the same. This is the budget that Mr Špirić has proposed in his day and we here year by year, and he did do a good job once, I'm surprised that this principle was not held by the SNSD for the past two years, and I think they should have voted for the previous two years, obviously the IMF was supposed to open their eyes, but well my Bog, the IMF set the conditions and they realized that it was a good budget. Even so, we had some periods when we had no budget at all because of the enormous demands and the breakthrough of these frameworks. Look, for two years this country has been budgetless, better to have any budget than none. This is one rational, realistic budget that may be even smaller, because this is a clean administrative budget, real life is in entities, entity governments, and I wish this budget was even smaller, and that the larger budgets of the entity because there are all the social benefits, there is health care in this country that we do, while we are wasting ourselves here and look at just how much money we transfer neutrals from year to year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23092	Representative Emrić has no right to correction. Representative Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23093	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. 41 To Mr. Špirić is a replica. Look, uh, here we're not talking about our impact on the budget, we're talking about the impact of the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since Mr. Špirić wasn't before, I'm saying that what I just said just a little while ago, that a cop in entities can't have more income than cops in state institutions, about the Armed Forces, I was saying that soldiers have about 600 marks of salary. So, if that's not enough reason and everything that the Department of Defense needs yet, uh, to increase their score by at least 50 million, then I don't know what I'm talking about, but I've been reading, I've been following up on a long time, and I know when it's the Department of Defense and the Security Agency when it comes to what they should do. And look, I know that life is on entities, and entities are, then, gone from indirect taxes to over 5.5 billion going on entities. Direct taxes, here I was the other day, the Federation about 4.5 billion. An increase in excise duty to raise and some of the funds according to the entity's budgets has given the IMF credit. Where's the untaxed income? So a lot of these funds go towards entities, then they go there in entities, or government representatives, or governments don't know how to work while this situation is in entities when it comes to the social situation, the economy and the rest. So that's how much money's gone, pensions of the same, social benefits even less, so there's something going on there, which doesn't have to be like boomerang going back to the state and now we're from soldiers, from the security agencies making social cases. I'm talking about it and I'm talking about it for a longer period of time, and no one's going to react to it. Now, that's what I was talking about, and this is concrete. And I, Mr. Špirić, in phase two, will talk about why we've invested the amendments to fix this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23094	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23095	The correction of the wrong allegation refers to fellow Špirić. So if we take a stenogram or all of us who were present in the O.R. and listen, then we have one Nikola Špirić by 12 and after 12. When he answered the word 12 years ago, he said with audiblely that the SNSD would support this budget because of the pensioner, because of this, because of where we were, some of us looked at someone with so many years of experience in parliaments and on, yes, of course, you weren't anyone's male secretary because you were always close to your leader, so you were always rewarded by positions, how now in your discussion you said that pensioners were on an entity level, so you yourself were somehow contradictory, because you said before 12 that you supported this budget because of the pensioners, so you denied yourself because they were pensioners on an ethnic level, which will say that this budget, of course, has nothing to do with pensioners, or any social categories. The second thing, when you from the SNSD to get up and start talking on the subject of the effect and pay of MPs and the MP is a real nonsens, it proves that you do not, at least as a club, participate, as a parliamentary party in the work of parliament, you have given up all the positions in the work that binds you under the law and the Constitution in parliamentary committees, and by this you have not, let's say, started what you were talking about, to reduce the pause, to abolish, because you do not give as much as you should participate in parliamentary work. So, Mr. Špirić, the Democratic Front has proposed to abolish the flat rate because it's the only option, because we can't, unfortunately, agree on the constitutional category to touch these huge salaries of MPs and MPs, so we found a way to lift a flat-rate that's not regulated anywhere by law, the Council of Ministers ignores it, even a few years of reviewing, the Office of Audit informs, informs, makes recommendations The Council of Ministers that they have done something about it, they have not done 42. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And so, Mr. Špirić when the Democratic Front This is suggested in one of the committees you were not present because you are not involved in the work of parliamentary committees. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, you, Mr Špirić, together with your club, have the least right to talk about the impact, work in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23096	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23097	I just want to say that this isn't, that a colleague doesn't adhere to the agenda there's no cantar here who has how much rights and how much democratic rights the club has, that, the quantum of these rights comes from the strength of the club and we are one of the strongest clubs in this House. That's one thing. And the other thing, my dear, I don't know what you are by your profession, I don't know, I really don't, and I appreciate everything you're doing, but talking to me about the budget is a waste of your time. You do business that you know better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23098	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23099	Thank you, Madam Chairman. After this exhaustive discussion, and only in the form of replicas, I don't know what to say anymore, especially after discussing my colleague Špirić, who very well explains the budget to us and I understand we don't need any proposals at all, Nikola I know that you know him well and we don't need what our proposings are going to do here. But let's get back to reality. I thank the proposings who gave us this budget and gave us the opportunity to review 800 pages in two days and to talk quality of the budget. And let the citizens know that we have studied all the budget well, because 800 pages is really nothing, that's not one "Ana Karenjina" or any "War and Peace" or so that little booklet, and it's easy to read, because there's a little difference here that has a lot of digits to compare, so now we're going to be very educated because we've read the figures, and we're not even aware of what, how and how these figures are going to be something that's going to be an incentive for this country. I would recommend to the promoters that some things that have been completely forgotten, and here I am now speaking to my esteemed colleague, but truly esteemed, this is no joke, Bevanda, no, no, I'm seriously saying this, that I can't come to you if you didn't foresee the means to preserve the national treasure. I am disappointed that Slovenia is exercising the right to film "Neretva", copyright, Serbia and Croatia are fighting over it, and we have thrown our national treasures down the river Just so much. 70% of the film's fund was Bosnia and Herzegovina. You have no idea what you're doing, that Roman Petrović and his legacy are no longer Bosnian Herzegovina, the man who founded the first Academy of Fine Arts in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I will now list you as much as you want. We're a country without heritage, we're fighting for fictitious things, and what's real and what represents the sulkus of a country we've completely forgotten. A hybrid engine patented by engineers from Bosnia and Herzegovina today is intellectual property and is produced there in Serbia. ... plateau, a platform with caterpillars today is owned by Croatia and it is produced and worked in Slavonski Brod. And I'm going to name this endlessly for you right now, but that's why 43 institutions called protection are going to look at how many. Do you know that Gabrijel Jurkić is in his act, and I have to say this because he was Franciscan, he wrote with his hand that he was making a promise to his Bosnia and therefore a gallery in Livno, so he wrote it with his own hand. Do you know who is now exercising the right to protect his work? You don't know, you don't know. Do you know who publishes the collected works of the mehmedalija of Mak Dizdar? You have no idea, and so I'm going to put it in an endless list. I feel like a citizen of this country humiliated not to react, don't pay for what belongs to the citizens of this country to return. You don't do it, you're thinking how we're going to fictitiously play and make it possible for our high-quality leaders to manage the population. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And finally, I'm finishing up Mrs. Krišto, since I delivered what I promised you could all make your DNA profile, I found a sponsor for those who can't pay 59 dollars and they can get paid, so they can see what kind of an ethnic profile each of us belongs to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23100	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23101	I thank the chairman. I want it to be written that you did not warn your colleague Špirić as chairman that he appeared under the non-reservation of the established agenda after he fired two replicas, so that he would use it and injured Article 76(2) of the Rules of Procedure, and you did not warn him about where he looked at his non-compliance with the agenda by replicating me, which is what I do, who I am and what I am. So it wasn't about non-restraint, it was about replica, but since he probably cracked his replicas, he could only look back. And as for you, Mr. Špirić, I'm glad that you don't know who I am or what I'm dealing with, because you and I are not from the same bus, which will say that you, and you're only known for being a longtime member of the SNSD, were ranked in high positions, that you can talk or not talk to someone, that you determine, after probably blood cells, you should now determine who can talk about the budget and who can't. This does not give you the right, because I did not replicate the measure of the budget to you, but I did replicate it after you insulted my colleague Damir Bećirović, also interpreting that he was a male secretary, I guess we should ask you if the citizens of whom to choose, what professions, will say from your discussion that only in fact if the doctors are sitting here and the doctors are sitting there, they should not discuss anything other than health care. So, fellow Špirić, if I don't know what you are, or who you are, or who you are, and I'm not interested in the end line, and on the other hand we all have our own parliamentary clubs, our advisors within our own parties, you as a longtime politician probably know and we can absolutely discuss this on all points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23102	Just a brief remark, if I wanted to comment on the allegations, then you're, then I can only comment that, distinguished MPs, you misused the Rules of Procedure, then you should have called on business provisions, you applied to correct the wrong allegations and corrected the wrong quote on a colleague. 44 Please, representative of Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23103	Thank you, Chairman. I want to say hello. Look, my part of the discussion relating to the correction of the wrong quote refers to the allegations made by Mrs. Maja Gasal. You mentioned SNSD MPs' club and the way SNSD function, I don't think you have the right to do it either, as we don't have the right to comment on how you do it, because we certainly have more serious things to do than follow what any of the MP clubs are doing. I appreciate that we can comment on policies, which is why it is Parliament, because we are different political parties, it is quite simple and completely clear. I really ask you that when it comes to the way the SNSD Members' Club works and the efficiency of the SNSD, there will be a topic that you will bypass for a simple reason because we are not doing it to you either. The second thing, I think it was quite clear here, that there was a change of thesis, if we talk about the budget and if it's a budget observation, then I think the exact address to which some observations should be addressed is the Presidency, before the Finance Ministry Presidency and the Fiscal Council, and not Nikola Špirić, not the SNSD Parliament Club, or any of the colleagues here. That's why I think there's been a slight change of thesis. What counterpart Špirić commented, he commented on our policies expressed when we were the government at the level of joint institutions and our review on the budgetary framework. And that's our fundamental political right to point out what we were doing at a time when we were in power and, of course, we're going to do the same every time. I think your colleagues referred not to the SNSD in the domain of poor budget planning of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I want to remind you that SNSD has not been in power for three years, it is true that we have mentioned the express surplus that remains, the funds that have not been spent, but it is not an expression of the bad planning of SNSD personnel, the bad, the SNSD staff of the last three years is not in these institutions. Tell me, which line of the SNSD is at the head of any institution? Don't change your weights and don't let us develop that kind of thing like that. dialogue, because we don't think that's good. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23104	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23105	So, Article 76(2), the Honorable Chairman, I ask you to treat all of us equally in this House. If you have already warned me now after my discussion that I have broken the Rules of Procedure, then you should also warn Mr Špirić that he has broken it, if you return the stenogram or I do not know it, you will see that Mr Špirić has reported himself under non-resistance of the agenda. He didn't say anything about not keeping the agenda, but he was replicating it to me. So, if you're already warning of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then you're doing it to all of us equally, because you're for equality.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23106	Thank you very much. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go, counselor. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23107	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This has moved away, it would be interesting to take the minutes from the session when my party then decided not to support the budget because the budget then envisioned the same amount of funds for the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will try to deliver that record to the MPs, possibly if the Rules of Procedure gives me space at one of the next sessions, today's actors and then the actors, and how much they've transformed so much that you can't recognize them. The truth is, this is one introduction to what I didn't want to report for the replica, it's true that at the time the party I belonged to was told – no, it's our country's shortcut, but it's what crosses our chair in the Council of Ministers. Now that's different, now they're more of a chair than the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the position it has. And I'm not ashamed of that period, and I'm proud of that period, and I have no problem saying that I was part of that policy, but I would be ashamed to say that I'm part of today's policy. No Niko is answering, reporting for replicas, putting themselves into some great experts, and the policy that is being led today... by all the people who made a big contribution to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and mentioning one name among them by distinguished professor Ismet Gavrankapetanović. So this is the answer to those who say they all have their biographies behind them. It is true that then the respected SDP president Zlatko Lagumdžija was saving himself, so he went to Banja Luka, Milorad Dodik forged the Fiscal Framework and so to this day. Today's budget is the result of the Fiscal Framework, and it was built according to Milorad Dodik, who received Bakir Izetbegović. And that's all true, and you don't need to run away from that and that's, that's the fact that no one can escape from. But if this Parliament makes laws important for Bosnia and Herzegovina's European progress, there are laws in all countries that also have fiscal, monetary burdens, does this mean that we will not pass any laws in the coming year? According to this budget as planned, we won't, because it hasn't moved the budget since what was last year. Has this fiscal framework given the possibility that the president of Republika Srpska's entity spends 12 million a year, and I witnessed a few days ago that our country's handball team has no money to pay for a hotel in Tuzla and must return from Tuzla to Sarajevo, so that each one goes home. So these are the truths, so why don't you predict the funds for the country's representations at least, so we don't embarrass ourselves where we shouldn't. Why? Well, the answer is clear, you can't tell that to Milorad Dodik because he won't accept you, because it's going to be what he says, and that's the facts. We're all talking about NATO travel, and the situation in this country's army is catastrophic, at least when it comes to equipment, soldiers, wages, etc., etc. The military would rather disintegrate than we'd go any faster towards NATO. Well, does any country that has the foreign policy goal of going towards the NATO Alliance have to have an increase in funds in that item is that it gave up NATO because Milorad Dodik wants it? These are the questions to be answered, because the budget is a picture of the state for this year, the budget is a picture of the state for this year, what will be done, where it will go, how it will progress, what will.. etc., etc. So you can't read it here. Everyone's talking about building highways, this, this, that, so we've distributed it to entities, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina as their main goal, and that's what they're saying, so every place we need to build a corridor, we need this, we need what the state doesn't participate in. In a few years, if the policy doesn't change, the state will come down to 3%, and the entities will go to some... because no one has any interest in developing the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Somewhere I've seen in someone, so it's when they sit down and make arrangements, says two to me, one to you, and the state to cry. So that's about the story that concerns this budget and the way it's made with some kind of political compromises that are at the expense of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23108	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go, counsel. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23109	Thank you, Your Honor, the Chairman. I will be brief, given that it is the first reading and the principles of this Law and immediately to say that Budget Bosnia and Herzegovina is part of, meaning, consolidated budgets at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Some of the budgets at some levels have already been adopted and parliamentary procedures have been completed, some have not, say, been adopted in Republika Srpska, in the Federation, but as things stand today and there may be adopted. The Fiscal Council carried out the division of funds from, which will be obtained from the Administration from, therefore, indirect taxes. And that's something that is, it can increase if you increase the total amount. Basically it's spinning around here somewhere, uh, like it's here and estimated or predicted. As a result, it is almost impossible from 950 million, how much total income, if 750 million belongs to funds from the Directorate for, or from indirect taxes, and everything else from all other revenues, when we look at those revenues, we see that there is very little chance that something is more significant, or increased, it is simply impossible to increase the budgetary framework. I guess it's clear that it's not possible to meet all these demands that are now being made here, because there's simply no space, there's no item where it's possible, unless we're going to invent some new income that isn't here, so let's say, here, that's that income of 100 million and now we're going to use that income for those and those costs. From this I think that we have today a significant part of the debate that I cannot, even if someone will, can't result in changes to this budgetary framework and that this is something that is only and acceptable at this moment and that, in my opinion, we don't need to do any locates within these items, unless there really is a strong need to increase funds somewhere in some amount, but, of course, we need to know where we're going to reduce them. I end up saying that I will support this budget because I think it represents a sufficiently good framework for the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we are talking about them, but they leave enough space, meaning for others who are involved in the division of funds from indirect taxation to meet their needs, of course, with more rational use of direct taxes, which are not small, which, or which we here, say, we do not have any right.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23110	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Before we approach a statement on the law proposal in the first reading, I ask you to make a statement about the College's proposal in the expanded composition. So... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We're giving a 10-minute break to the SDA Club proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23113	...consultations... just five minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23114	Thank you very much. We're moving on. I ask you to make a statement about the College's proposal in the expanded composition to hold a vote on the proposal for a horse in the first reading, after which we will open the amendment phase for an hour. We'll continue the debate on the rest of the agenda. The Finance and Budget Committee will hold its session and deliver the report to us after the end of the hour, meaning the amendment phase. After that, there will be an open debate on the draft law in the second reading and voting on the draft law in the second reading. Please make your statement on this conclusion. Of the 40 present – for 26, against 11, abstention 3. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that we have adopted the proposal for a conclusion. Now, I ask you to come forward with me on the draft budget bill in the first reading. Of the 40 present – for 28, against 11, abstention 1. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we adopted the draft budget in our first reading. So now it's 4:00, we're giving the amendment phase, so by 5:00, after which, here, the Committee on Budgets and Finance will deliver its report. We are now continuing on the second item of the agenda until we get that report and then we return to the adopted conclusion on the draft budget in the second reading with the amendments. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on excise duties in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Salko Sokolović, Senad Šepić and Sadik Ahmetović, issue: 01-02-1 2340/17, since 29/09/2017, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission The legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion on 03.10.2017, establishing that the proposal for a law is in line with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The House College has appointed the Committee on Finance and the budget responsible for considering the bill. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 15.11.2017. The commission did not find that the draft law is in line with the BiH Constitution and the legal system. On 14.11.2017, the Committee on Finance and Budget asked the House College to extend the time limit for the delivery of opinions and to request 48 opinions from the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Management Board of the Directorate for Irregular Taxation on the Proposal for a Law. The Financial and Budget Committee delivered Opinion 14.12.2017. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23116	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, on behalf of people who are still in September, when after four times we had a failed story about the adoption of the Excise Law, with people who understand this topic, with people who have thought well-meaningly about how we can get out of the problem we are in, we have proposed amendments to the Law in which we wanted to achieve a few things. The first is to get the Excise Act, the second is, therefore, to resolve that condition, a certain condition set before us by international financial institutions, to unblock the funds of international financial institutions and to get the opportunity to actually build roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the text of the Law itself, you had the opportunity, given that we have paid a lot of, as we have spoken, the opportunity to see the very essence of the text of the Law, it meant that from the existing excise duties, which people in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been paying for for years, from existing excise duties on fuel to provide in a different redistribution of 10 fenings that should be a guarantee for the activation of international funds, i.e. the funds of international financial institutions, and thus deblocking and European processes, and on the other hand the possibility of starting road construction in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The fact is that it hasn't been right for the current government since the very beginning because they wanted to have, in addition to the existing, another type of opportunity, which is to raise, to collect fuel, to collect all life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We were against it from the very beginning, but as a responsible, serious political party, we offered a solution and we offered an alternative that was fair, it was real. So now we're discussing it here after what's-his-name, what's-his-name, the experiences we had in that way by adopting the Excise Act a month ago. No matter what it's been, here's still the Excise Act hasn't passed, so it hasn't come into effect, we have experience of what we had. Because of one relationship between everything we have experienced here in the Parliamentary Assembly, groups of MPs, including myself, will file an appeal, or a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of one such way, this, the adoption of the Excise Act. And it's a procedure that will have its legal procedure in the coming period and...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23117	I am obliged to warn the MP that the debate on the opinion of the Committee for Finance and Budget. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And ustavnopravni, nature, negative opinion, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23119	So I'm telling you, I'm talking to you as a proposal on the essence of the law and why we, for what reason, are we in a position to have that attitude, because it's not at all 49, but it's a political position. So, people who voted against one of those proposals, so saying there is no constitutional basis and that they do not accept such principles, are political reasons, without any argument and without any, as I would say, these essential, essential arguments. But to get back to this thing, so we've filed an appeal to the Constitutional Court and we'll wait for it to happen. Today we are discussing it here, so yes, and I call on people to open up a new possibility although, therefore, I am aware of how realistic it is, I am aware of the overall relations, but I need to say that there are solutions to the Excise Act completely different from what uncreative and uninnovative people could only offer us and vote in such a way as to vote as they voted a month ago. So this is the solution that lies before you today. I call on you to support, in this sense, to bring down the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission and in this sense, to give us space for this law, therefore, to be a law that, as I said earlier, will solve the issue of excise duties, unblock resources, allow us to create roads, and will not further collect life in Bosnia and Herzegovina and people in general in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And with this in mind, we will submit one initiative officially and towards Parliament, and today we will do so in the form of a conclusion on this agenda point today, we will submit an initiative to determine the maximum amount of the retail margin of the oil and oil distributors. The fact is that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so those who deal with oil distribution that through margins that exist have the means to earn, this kind of collection would further expand. What do we want to do, if this law remains the law that you adopted on your muscles in December of this(?) In the year, we will then request an initiative and oblige the Council of Ministers and Entity Government to investigate what is the maximum amount of the retail margin, and therefore to bring the upper limit, therefore, possible or possible profits, and to transfer the burden of these new purchases to one significant part of those people who achieve, therefore, a great profit from the oil trade. In this sense, we want to turn exclusively towards the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to do everything we can to do because of one of these, I would say, the irresponsible leadership of the state and the leadership of the government, to find some mechanisms, at least in the capacity in which we can do it now in this way, to try to protect people. And with that in mind, so I'm calling you to a negative point of view. Constitutional Commissions and, on the other hand, accept this conclusion that I was just talking about. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23120	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23121	Well, I've got some dilemmas, uh, but since, when it comes to this law that's passed, here's what he's done to these different texts, so we've got one situation that we don't all know what we've adopted, so I have some dilemmas that I can't accept, but since everything here is being accepted, and so you're proposing amendments and additions to the Excise Act, and you don't touch anything but internal distribution, a law that's already passed all, and a commission and every other phase, and eventually there's people sitting in some commission and they say this isn't by law, and this isn't by the Constitution. So in translation it's like that. And on the contrary... five times a law is pushed which increases fuel prices and violates all possible and impossible procedures in this country. And the fundamental thing that was happening in all of this was to avoid the commission phase. This Law, which we have proposed 50, was proposed before the amendment and addition of the Law that was adopted before, uh, at the previous session. You wanted to force some kind of demonstration here in this House to increase the cost of their lives to the citizens of this country and in such difficult conditions, and you didn't want to discuss before that the law that was referred to the procedure. So if I were to talk about a million of these legal, formal legal things that have been missed, but the way we're all working together here doesn't promise that we'll do anything if we break regulations like that, and laws, and this is how we deal with amendments and additions to laws that... other laws that, there was no reason for him to get a negative opinion, not one, especially that lawyers who know better than me vote for it. The commissions have been formed more like a profession that needs to filter something out and come to Parliament. So, you knew, you had most, that it here, uh, will or won't pass. But I have volunteered to say only those illogicalities because such a formula of establishment, such a formula will bring this Parliament, and bring it, all the more to absurdity. So we'll probably end up this session sometime in May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23122	Thank you. I don't see any more logs on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1-2528/17, of 25.10.2017. (first reading) The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 30.10.2017, establishing that the proposal for a law is in line with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The competent authorities to consider the draft law shall be designated by the Constitutional Commission. The Commission submitted its opinion on 14.12.2017. The commission found that the bill was in line with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system, and accepted the principles of the bill. The commission adopted a conclusion that reads – it is asked by the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance of BiH and the Competent Entity and Ministry of Education in Cantons in the Federation of BiH, and the competent Department of the Government of the Brcko District to deliver their opinions on this Bill Proposal until the second stage of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23124	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23125	Representative Tomić called. Is it... 51
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23126	... Mr. Đonlagić called before, and then I waited...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23127	Well, don't think about what someone... Will you discuss it?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23128	Nothing, all right, if I'm late...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23129	Here, we've concluded the debate, so also point five. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1-2529/17, of 25.10.2017. (first reading) The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 30.10.2017, establishing that the proposal for a law is in line with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The competent authorities to consider the draft law shall be designated by the Constitutional Commission. The Commission submitted its opinion on 14.12.2017. The commission found that the bill was in line with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system, and accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate at point six. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1- 2568/17, of 30.10.2017. (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23132	So... that you should say a few words, so you don't stay under-informed when it comes to this matter. We all remember the law that came in time and regulated the issue of preventive mechanisms. This time, we get an amendment to the law that also applies to preventive mechanisms, but in one segment says that a special regulation regulates the organisation, mode of work, criteria for selecting representatives of civil society organisations, the academic community and other experts involved in the functioning of preventive mechanisms. So, the whole area that we've been leading the fierce controversy of when there was a bill on the Ombudsman in which these mechanisms were introduced was now done so that Parliament wouldn't deal with it, we'll do it to the Rules of Procedure, no one will see what this is all about and we'll get it over with. I have no confidence that such serious things are dealt with by a special regulation within a narrow range of people, it's a matter generally related to Article 4.a. Article 4 or Article 39 of the Act amending itself relating to the financing of this institution is a special story. We would make a real war here, we have two homes, each of the homes has its own Finance and Budget Commission, and the institution proposes to exclude it from the Council of Ministers, but rather from delivering to the Commission for Finance and the Budget of the House of Representatives and the Commission for Human Rights, the Joint Commission for Human Rights. So, and completely exempt one commission that is the same, for the same purpose but in the House of Peoples and then says that budget will be defined. If it happens to be adopted drastically by two homes, the opinion will be the Commission's opinion on finance and the budget of the House of Representatives. This, therefore, is a very bad proposal, meaning also a proposal for this Article 4, the new Article 4.a. which is added, and this Article 39, which amends Article 39, is so bad that it could practically not be realised in the way it was proposed. I suggest we not pass the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23133	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23134	Thank you very much. A significant part of what I meant to say was said by her colleague, Majkić. So it applies first of all to Article 4. If this had been suggested by one of my colleagues, I would have kind of made this easier to understand, if he hadn't looked at everything enough, so the man suggested, here's something that was in practice very difficult to implement, but since the proposal of the Council of Ministers, I really don't know how the Council of Ministers imagined this member to implement in practice. So something similar to this, so we're going to get a request from this institution, a budget request, to which the finance ministry and the vault will deliver to the two commissions. Those two commissions will give some kind of a position on it if it's positive of both committees then he, then it goes so into the budget. Watch out, the budget hasn't been made yet. The Council of Ministers and the Presidency must not change such a fixed figure, I guess Parliament can not change that either. And then there's really a question of how it's actually possible to build a structure like this and make this work. Be careful, the first Council of Ministers is that, for the purposes of the Presidency, it is not possible that the Presidency cannot affect the budget and the proposal. So, how can the promoter not be able to affect the budget? The bill stipulates that the proposing cannot affect the budget. It would be good to protect, in another way, the Ombudsman Institution, or the financial resources foreseen for this institution, rather than in this difficult way, by administrative means. I'm in a dilemma whether we should miss this law in the second reading, so we can try to change what's here or he's so bad that the amendment can't change it 53, I haven't made that yet, as far as I'm concerned, I haven't made a decision. In any case, Article 4. I don't think he's an enforcer.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23135	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23136	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote on a colleague and colleague, therefore to my colleague Majkić and colleague Novaković. In 2015, my initiative, which was then adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, later and the House of Peoples, which said that in the next one, whether the next amendment and the addition of the Ombudsman law made sure that a preventive national mechanism was incorporated into the Law itself. So that's what we adopted, and that was the obligation given to the Council of Ministers, which we see we have respected by this bill. So, I will not be a lawyer for the Ministry of Human Rights, but I believe that we know very well that we adopted this and that something that could not, whether, compromise, be a compromise solution, is the name itself, is not the national preventive mechanism spoken of as a preventive mechanism and that, by itself, it was, at that time, an explanation that, based on the Constitution of BiH and the UNOptionary Protocol against torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating penalties and procedures, Bosnia and Herzegovina has an obligation to regulate this. So I really didn't understand what my colleague and colleague were discussing.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23137	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23138	I think Bosnia and Herzegovina has an obligation to ensure the financial sustainability and independence of this institution, which is the obligation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I don't think with this text that obligation, it's actually only with this kind of text that obligation can be realized. I think that it can be realized and that's why I'm afraid that what we're trying to achieve, colleague, this is not what we're going to achieve, and that's that financial independence and independence of this institution. So I have no objection to this institution being both financially independent and independent, but this text does not provide it. That's what I'm talking about, and I think we understand each other very well, so the question is, are we listening enough to each other? So my dilemma was whether amendments could fix the text by meeting the goal expected of this law or not, I'm not sure. That's why I haven't decided how I'm going to vote in the first and second readings yet. And when we talk about independent institutions, then we could go further and get to this Parliament, and ask how it is possible for a Parliament that has almost everywhere in the world to have financial independence, etc., in this country. And we can do that, but it's not the subject of today, of course, today is something we have on the agenda. And I've said my opinion, and it seems to me that we want to, but I'm afraid this is not how we're gonna do it, and that's what this is about. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23139	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23140	So it's possible that, I wanted to be as brief as possible so that it wasn't... no one said anything against a special preventive mechanism, so we're not talking about it, but I said it's not right that everything that's related to this mechanism, which we've had a lot of sex about, is regulated by a special rule that the Ministry will only edit and we won't even know how it's defined. I don't think that's right. A new mechanism for introductions and should also know in the end to be involved if it can contribute to making a contribution. It's about this Article 2. And as for this article four, I don't know who suggested this to them that they handle it this way with commissions. We have two equal homes and in those two homes we have two equal commissions for finance and budget. Don't let the Ministry troubles get between us. One home cannot be respected and the other cannot be respected. So, this one who suggested you wrongly suggested it. The Commission for Finance and the Budget of the House of Representatives is now important, and it is not important for the Commission for Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples. And now imagine the Commission for Finance and the Budget of the House of Representatives and the Commission for Human Rights, and you there, we are not interested. And if there is a difference in the adoption of the law in the different text who is there, imagine, that is again only the Commission for Finance and the Budget of the House of Representatives. Well, it's a real papacy, it's got nothing to do with reality, it's been a long time since some bad suggestion came. I'm really surprised that such a bad proposal could, at least in this part of how you envisioned the adoption of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23141	I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23142	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23143	The Minister wants to, here's the deal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23144	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs. Here, this is really one short change that went to meet those recommendations that the Accreditation Committee, here's to not repeating, you know, gave about these three, or four commitments of the state to be made in terms of, which need to be implemented for accreditation. What makes these solutions? You know that the law we proposed last year, i.e. last year, has not been supported here in Parliament and has perhaps had better solutions. These are the solutions that, just as the Ombudsmans came to work with, to amend and supplement this Law, and we, as the Ministry, accepted their initiative and fully maintained these provisions that they had proposed when it came to a preventive mechanism. And, therefore, this is about the fact that, as he's conjectured, the Ombudsmans perform the tasks of the preventive mechanism and that Regulation 55 will regulate the organisation and way of work and the participation of the academic community. So it's not given to the Ministry, not to anyone else, but to the Ombudsman himself that they do it. What is related to finance is the compromise that we had with the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and that they have finally made this proposal, because we have in some way met this obligation to involve the Parliamentary Assembly, or the bodies of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in this problem. It is in some way also a guarantee of the independence of that, the height of the budget, or the need of the Ombudsman institution to be this way, this procedure here and it respects itself. I mean, we've really made some efforts, and together with the Joint Committee on Human Rights, we've tried to solve these issues for a few meetings we've been having during the summer. Here, uh, that's what I can suggest, so the proposal was in front of the Ministry of Finance and the vault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23145	Thank you to the Honorable Minister. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law – Proposer: MPs Amir Fazlić, Nermina Kapetanović, Šefik Džaferović, Safer Demirović, Hazim Rančić, Asim Sarajlić and Šemsudin Mehmedović, Law No: 01-02-1 2686/17, of 15.11.2017. (first reading) The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 17.11.2017, establishing that the proposal for a law is in line with Article 105 of the Treaty. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH Institutions. The College of the House has appointed a Constitutional Commission for consideration. The Constitutional Commission delivered Opinion 21.12.2017. The commission found that the bill was in line with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system, and supported the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Debate, fellow deputy... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23150	Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Let me just briefly say a few sentences concerning the bill proposed by the SDA Club, the amendment and addition of the Election Law. We have so far talked about this topic about the House of People's proposal, I would like to say that this bill does not cover the issue of the BiH Presidency, because this issue is about the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights' Decision in the case of Sejdić and Finc and several other related decisions, why, according to our assessment, it is necessary to amend the Constitution of BiH in particular. This, our bill deals with the home of the people of the Federation of BiH and the election of the City of Mostar. When it comes to the House of the People of the Federation, our proposal respects the Constitutional Court Decision of BiH, respects the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, the Constitution of BiH and international standards on the subject, the basis for calculating delegates by individual cantons is the '91 census. In the year, the constitutional norm is respected that at least one canton should be chosen from each canton if it is chosen from each constitutional people and one formula is given that fully implements the Constitutional Court's decision. When it comes to Mostar, a solution for Mostar, it is a well-known solution that we have proposed before the 2016 Local Elections together with the Alliance for a Better Future, and it is a completely rewritten solution from that solution. The law passed the first amendment, the first commission phase, is supported in terms of constitutional basis and principle, I suggest that the House support this solution in the first reading so that we can go to the second amendment phase. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23151	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23152	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So here's to the same subject today, two points of the agenda, and the same reasons. Namely, I would start from the next finding, according to this proposal, colleagues who have signed the proposal, that the reason for the adoption of this law has been to implement the provisions of the BiH Election Law, so certain shortcomings have been identified during the implementation of the provisions concerning issues that have not been defined. So they don't even state the Constitutional Court's decision. Why? Well, because it doesn't suit them. So, because they have proposed counter-constitutional solutions, means an anti-constitutional solution such a solution that, when it comes to the House of Peoples, they have proposed. So, the Constitutional Court has already put beyond the power of such a provision of the Election Law, which 57 of us have already discussed I don't know how many times. However, it does not give up, so it remains at the desire to elect their representatives. When it comes to this second, second point, second, second order of things that they are solving, and that's a question of Mostar, it's several times, and in that previous discussion, and at some other discussion, and through the work of this Parliament, you've heard the constant story of Mostar, about the city that's mentioned in Dayton, about the city that deserves it, about the sufferings, about everything, so, and they've forgotten, let's just say, that these principles might be applied to other cities, at least alternatively, that they put it, like, on. About Tuzla, not to mention the Travnik I come from, and I'll just say a few things about it. So Travnik was a city that was the head office of the county with a special regime such as Mostar and Vazda were some common solutions and identical to those of the two counties and the two cities, and so the OHR solution that abolished the special regime and one and the other county brought them where he brought them, in particular the Hrvat. 19.5 thousand, about 20 thousand Hrvat from the grassy municipality were expelled, about 40 villages and inhabited towns were destroyed by Croatians. So, in addition, there are casualties and a half, and shootings and... a person, over 120 civilians died, 427 soldiers died fighting, mostly with members of the BiH Army and still not counting, because it's not a topic, you'll stop me because I'm leaving the topic. So Travnik was seriously injured when it comes to Hrvat. Doesn't he deserve to be treated the same way Mostar is treated, even though he's not mentioned in Dayton? If you want gentlemen of justice, then where is that justice? So where is justice for the Bugojans who are also 12-13 thousand, so where is justice for the pupils, so where is justice for the Tuzlaks, so where is Mostar, where is it that we Hrvat did not experience in Central Bosnia? Will someone explain it to me? If we're going to talk numbers, we can talk numbers, so let's see, there's no Mr. Sokolović, I'm very sorry he doesn't listen to me, so he thinks it just got killed in Mostar. It didn't just get killed in Mostar and today we have consequences in Travnik, and today it didn't come back to us, tens of thousands of people never came back to their hearths. We have villages in Orasco where there was a mujahedin camp where no Hrvat ever came back. So if you want to talk about it, let's talk about it. So give us the right to have a mayor, give us the right to have another mayor, there was something Srbin there in Central Bosnia, there was 11%... Well, let's get some principles in place if you want to suggest it. So, we touched on our proposal just some solution to finally get to the choice by not dealing with the deep and deep plowing. If that's what you want, gentlemen, there's no problem. When it comes to the House of Peoples, I no longer know what to say about it except that it is noticeable that lately all parties to the political Bosniak provinces, therefore, are turning or wanting to turn the House of People into another civic home. So, what a story it must be, today Mr. Džaferović was saying, that there must be a balance of civil and national in the House of Peoples. Mr. Džaferović, after some difficult war and situation we had, or colleagues of others, which is why the Venice Commission, which Judge Boneli, for example,... in Sejdić-Finc's judgment when he excluded his opinion, we had a hard war and as a consequence, is a Peace Agreement in which we agreed that we could function as a two-home system in which a home will defend the interests of the constituent peoples. How do you turn him into a citizen's home now? So why are we going to have a high representative turn him into a circus anyway, because every vital national interest we turn into a circus. He doesn't have the function he had anymore. If we've ended the war, sat down, agreed not to die anymore, to make a state the moment we can make it, why now you want to turn this into a one-home parliament. Why don't you come out fair and tell us we don't need a two-home Parliament anymore, we need a House of Representatives, we need 150 MPs, so whoever gets a choice. And like this... you're spreading to the public that the elections, that legitimate representatives of the Croatian people will disolute the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina because they use their rights that belong to them as we agreed. That's what the High Representative did to us when he suspended our parities in these two counties, when he abolished the parities in the Federation, when he introduced 58 constitutionalities as he introduced it, and I talked about it in the previous wheel. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So it's an incredible desire not to accept reality. I don't mind, nor do we mind doing whatever the hell you want the state to do, but it's known how it's done. At this moment we have a parliamentary assembly of two-homes, let the House of Peoples choose their own representatives. The story is that, therefore, the counties are the instrument through which the electoral process is conducted, there must be no county at all, which must be the county, let's make two electoral units. Who says this is Dom Canton? Well, that's what we said a hundred times. says the Venice Commission. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So come on, let's sit down once and talk, let's sit down and talk, we weren't even against making a deal with our proposal, but your wish to choose our representatives is amazing. Your wish to be gone is incredible. I do, as long as I don't know. I don't think he can for long. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23153	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23154	Thank you very much. I will refer, I spoke last time about both of these drafts of the Electoral Law, and which has been extended by HDZ and fellow MPs from the SDA, and in principle, this kind of work has been predicated to failure, because none of these two proposals will be supported. And the promoters knew that, and the question is, why are we doing such a job in the first place if we're just gonna waste time? Perhaps in these discussions, which were in the last month, two or five, we have deepened both international relations and are somewhat destabilising because of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now, I've read that even the High Representative says that the amendments to the Election Law won't all be satisfied. It is a completely wrong thesis, we must change the electoral law in Bosnia and Herzegovina where everyone will be satisfied. It's the only way we can build good relationships and build this country. I think a mistake has been made and it has to be corrected what it was when it was the first decision on the constitutionality of the people when the entity's constitution was asymmetrically set and they themselves as such define the positions of the people in entities differently. I have really no obstacle to solving any nation or any fear or barrier that any nation has in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I do not have that problem, but the position, so here I will agree that there is a need to solve this issue that HDZ is talking about, but in order of some things and numbers. The Bošnjak are other people in Republika Srpska, they have no nearly right that Hrvat have in the Federation, they have none, they choose them there, a few of them, and they ask nothing, serve their own purpose, and that is what we can finally conclude. So first, what's wrong is the asymmetric stop. So here you have the House of Peoples in the Federation, there you have the Council of Peoples who have no authority whatsoever. In Republika Srpska you have a president who has all the powers, vice presidents don't do anything, in the Federation you have a president of the Federation and vice presidents who have their responsibilities, who have authority. So that's the problem that's reflected and on any one, here are all these proposals of the Electoral Law... that picture. If we want to help anyone else, then we need to look at the whole area of Bosnia and Herzegovina and thus approach this problem. Only such electoral law that will come from the symmetric constitutions of the Federation can be the electoral law with which everyone will be satisfied. Any other solution to these partials is doomed to the problem. I'm sure, I'll repeat here, I used to be when I was first elected to this House was colleague Niko Lozančić from HDZ, then he was vice president of HDZ, and then they were the conduct report 59 Anexa vii.. His story and my story were exactly the same when it came to the real, uh, people who were. So that hasn't changed until today, probably hasn't changed. One who is somewhere in the minority has the same problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina that has, uh, in the whole area, minorities. Are we ready to settle the issue of all in Bosnia and Herzegovina from such one position? We didn't. So, the HDZ proposal, let's solve this Herzegovina, also this SDA proposal something like this. All I can say, let me put it that way, and figure out why the Srebrenica issue wasn't treated, to return that 2008 law or amendment to Srebrenica. Why isn't he in this proposal, I'll suggest it if it comes to this amendment phase, if it comes. Because from what you now see there in that city, it's the same thing as, you feel that only Serbia is taking care of Srebrenica, there is neither Banja Luka present nor Sarajevo there. Everyone's talking about her, there's no one who doesn't talk, and use her when he needs her like this for some kind of pathetic thing to tell somewhere. So I think that both HDZ and the SDA should have withdrawn these proposals because they further agree on the political situation in the country. And, dear brother, you have these experts, Halid Genjac, SDA may suggest, let him once again massacre the returnees as he massacred them through all these stages of the election law change, from the P2 pattern when the rachmeti professor, when he was just there, Professor rickmetly Kasim Begić resigned from that commission because he did not want to accept it. The Honorable Doctor stayed there and then we were massacred and we're in half. Cut off because we no longer had the right to vote. [[the speaker is warned on time]] After that, second change in diaspora vote with 100,000 Bošnjak who voted in the Republika Srpska area, it was down to 30,000. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Don't let such experts make us changes and supplement the law. And I'd like us all to be reasonable and to respect each other's problems where these other minorities are because the problem is exactly the same, identical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23155	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23156	All right, so, colleagues to Sadik Ahmetović in some way complements, it's not some strong replica that he'll probably get angry and replicate to me again. But, therefore, I am talking, first of all, about political rights, I used what he said because often in public among you – what Hrvat, who are Hrvat, have more rights, we have more rights than, I don't know, Bošnjak. But Mr Ahmetović, I am the Croatian Democratic Community, I was chosen by someone, I represent someone, someone's political interests. We are talking about political interests, our political interests were as satisfied as they were by some 2000 and 2001 when someone took it and... What can we do in the Federation? For eight years we have been expelled... from power, speaking as political representatives, legitimate, Croatian peoples. So, what we can bring into that government now with the hands that we have,...someone did and changed the Constitution on his own, changed the Peace Agreement. Does the change of the Peace Agreement mean the declaration of war? What does that mean without a participant of the Peace Agreement, so who signed the Agreement? Well, it wasn't signed by the High Representative, if he signed it, then, but here he used the Bonhian districts and that's how it worked. But maybe the solution is what I'm going to read, so we don't have to. So, the people are fed up with Bosnian guards who only talk about stories and their own egos. In particular, there are plenty of Croatian people who could finally, perhaps, resolve the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the end with their full migration. It would certainly not be wrong for international practitioners because in this case, with Bosnia of the two entities, the issues of all issues would finally be resolved, 60 as well as the issue of Sejdić iFinci. And what about the gentlemen after that, and what about the gentlemen after that? I think you want it all. Well, what mathematics, which logic believes 450,000 Hrvat, 200,000 possible voters, I don't know, their 4-5 MPs, will destroy Bosnia and Herzegovina, which they say is theirs, we say is ours, we're looking for our right. So, is it to seek the right disselution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is that the disolution of Bosnia and Herzegovina? You're disabling the public, you're saying we're doing special elections, Maja says, colleague, Then someone will be scarred. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The choices are normal, where it says In our law that someone will have a special box? [[the speaker is warned on time]] We're talking about assigning a mandate... to special elections. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I don't really understand anymore, and here it's proposed an anti-constitutional solution from a break that defends... the state and the Constitution and the law here. Well, there's no point in what they're doing anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23157	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, rectification of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23158	Well, I mean, political interests and citizens' interests are different. So I'm trying to say what, let's go if I have the right to say, which should be our interest, to work in the interests of the citizens of this country and as much as we can. I would also like to hear the answer to who, therefore, we know here are the citizens of this country most threatened by power, depending on where they live. So the greatest threat from there comes. I have no problem personally for everyone in this country to be equal and to consume their rights and to feel comfortable in this country, I don't have that problem. But I have a problem with the matrix we've been working on for 20 years, from the law we've been making, let's make it, let's make it a good law, let's make it against someone. So this is happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina, depending on where..., so I don't want to bid here on any side, but it happens. And I repeat, therefore, the problem is an alliance that has accepted asymmetric solutions when it comes to the implementation of the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of the people and, therefore, the problem has arisen. If we had been to the end, to the end consistent, we probably wouldn't have had this problem that you're talking about, probably not me, and many others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23159	Chairman, Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23160	Thank you very much. Well, here, I've listened to a few of these corrections, I haven't seen them as a step back, I'd say, in relationships, regardless of the different attitudes, so I want to say at the beginning and all that I'm going to say here when it comes to this bill that came to us from respected colleagues from the U.S.A. A colleague, Šefik, initially said that the law is fully in line with the Constitution, that it implements the decision. True, the Law states in terms of consistency and so on, but of course, all that is stated inside is completely contrary and does not call for a Constitutional Court Decision either. So, I carefully read this Law, in contrast, perhaps from some who commented on other laws, whether publicly, or at this pay phone, and they didn't even know what it said inside or exactly, or didn't want to hear it. As regards this proposal, it is directly contrary to both the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Decision 23/14. So, the provisions of the electoral law declared unconstitutional are almost identical norms from the Federation of BiH Constitution. Here, I will take the opportunity to tell you, although I know that 61 of you have heard from the media, since I have heard so many times and through the talks we have used this opportunity, I have also submitted a request to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of these provisions, in the same way as the Constitutional Court did when it comes to election law. The Constitutional Court has said about the provision that every constituent nation is given one place in each canton, that it is possible for a member of the constituent people to be elected to the House of Peoples, even in the extreme case that he is the sole member of one of the constitutive peoples provided that he is elected to the legislative body of the county. So, this envoy was elected in the direct elections by other peoples, which means that the legitimacy of that envoy is given by representatives of another people, and such an envoy has the same capacity in the House of Nations as any selected by members of that constituent people, i.e., democratic decision is achieved exclusively by a legitimate political representation based on the democratic choice of those envoys in the House of Peoples, that is, the constituent people who represent and whose interests. In this context, the provisions not called for are contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality and directly in such a way and in the provision of the Constitutional Court Decision, i.e. the reasons, it is said that the provisions of the Constitution of BiH are being violated in such a way. The Chapter for the City of Mostar is the opposite of the Constitution of the Federation, the central zone was not the city area, so according to the Constitution of the Federation, and even according to the Statute of the City of Mostar, it cannot be an electoral unit. In addition, the number of voters enrolled in the central zone is far below the criteria under which one councilman could be elected, which would also be in port, with Constitutional Court Decision 9/09. Then, the number of council members, we see in election units, is not adequate to the number of voters enrolled in the electoral list by election units, which is also compatible with the Constitutional Court Decision. Then, in this proposal, there is a city list missing which, too, the Constitutional Court has absolutely no problem with, and it should represent the unity of the city unless they have any other intentions. The post of Mayor Mostar is also being introduced and is being called here, too, to the Federation Constitution, which is completely wrong and unconstitutional, because the mayoral function in the current Federation Constitution absolutely does not exist. The proposal for this law seeks to impose a permanent application of the '91 rules, a distribution by constitutional peoples to one of the Houses of the Federation, which is also contrary to the Federation of BiH Constitution, and I will refer to myself precisely, which clearly determines that the '91 census. It shall apply to public authorities, including courts. Therefore, there is no saying that the place, in the legislative body, is being deployed according to the '91 census, after a new list was held in 2013. Therefore, for all the above-mentioned reasons, I find this proposal of the Electoral Law unconstitutional and unacceptable from the point of view of the decisions that we need to implement and, unfortunately, I don't see any way to correct it through the amendment phase for reasons of non-constitution, and I've thought deeply about whether there is a way, because we also wanted to do so in the proposals that we have made, to open the debate, to come up with some compromise, to send some message that we want some of them at least to advocate, but here I'm reading some other intentions, and I'm not going to say them at this point, I'm going to leave room for this important and important question, again, for Bosnia and Herzegovina, all of its constituent peoples and citizens. Thank you very much. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23161	If this can be called, I don't know how to call it, correcting the wrong quote. I absolutely understand this kind of frustration from the aspect of the election of representatives of any people in the House of Peoples and of any people, and here I mean that Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci, in the BiH presidency. I absolutely 62 understand that this kind of frustration is something that, here, has brought us what we have now, and that is total disharmonic in something called the Election Law. In the end, however, it all sums up suma sumarum in the first Law to select members of the Presidency and MPs in the House of Peoples, and in the second point is placed on Mostar and constitutional solutions. I don't see a solution to Sarajevo being challenged here, because there is a mayor and his two deputies from two other constituent nations, that's true.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23162	Excuse me, counselor, are you arguing or correcting the wrong assumption? Please hold your business.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23163	So you said that constitutionally was not solved anywhere, you said that, I'm just trying to tell you that such a constitutional solution has been applied to Sarajevo. And I agree with that, and it should be so and it shouldn't be so, and I suggest that you gentlemen from the HDZ and the SDA and your coalition partners, the SBB, and that there should be no such frustrations, to choose, to elect members of the Presidency, why not, it is a democratic practice in many other countries, in Parliament. Then we won't have this problem. That others would choose him [[the speaker is warned on time]] When it comes to the House of Peoples, I end up, the House of Peoples can do it in another way, which is that the parties that conquer the majority, most of them I speak, delegate at least, and say the majority in the House of Peoples, three. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I can do that, not from which county, I've been speaking since I was five, it's more mathematical. If there are ten, at least seven, if there are so many, at least so many, we can solve it much simpler. Try to think about it a little bit because [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23164	I'm warning you, and I'm taking away your word for breaking... ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23165	in the procedure and your proposal to amend and supplement the electoral law.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23166	Just to find out that you have misused the business provision to correct the wrong allegations because in your allegations no one referred to Sarajevo, but to the specific provisions and proposals that are in the law. As for the debate, MP Momčilo Novaković. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23167	Thank you very much. I will begin the debate with your sentence, Madam Chairman, with whom I think you have concluded your presentation, which is – we wanted to open negotiations with our proposal. And exactly the views I was making when I was talking about the bill that HDZ proposed in the procedure is on this line. Negotiations need to be opened here. Whether the way HDZ tried to open negotiations through the proposal of the Emergency Procedure Act would be given to discuss, rather than not, whether the way the SDA is trying to open negotiations with the solutions found here, which it is clear in advance that it will not receive the support of at least one 63 people in this House, or most of the MPs of one people in this Parliament, and that it seems to me, clearly, that such negotiations are not a model for opening negotiations. There is no solution without the key factors in the Federation sitting down and agreeing. I repeat what I said in the debate on item 3, this is the BiH Election Law issue, but it is a solution in the Federation. Whatever solution is agreed in the Federation, I see no reason not to support us in Republika Srpska. Negotiations mean respecting negotiators, respecting different attitudes, and I know it's hard, that we're really going to find a common solution, or those who need to find it, but it's possible. Let's remember, for example, the election of members of the BiH presidency in case one of the members of the presidency happens something. Maybe in that model it's possible to look for a solution, I say maybe. But here, I am not the one who is invited to offer solutions, but I simply want to say that I, as an individual, will, by my own vote, actually refuse one law and another, give the opportunity to negotiate. I think that's what we're actually giving the negotiations a chance to adopt these changes by May. What I can't understand is really the story that unless the election law changes, elections are possible, but there will be no implementation. I'd like someone to explain what that means. And if we know in advance that there's no implementation, why all this stuff we're talking about today and what we're wasting so much energy on. I ask you, therefore, that by May of the month we have time, I think enough time is enough if it is seriously negotiated to come to a solution. And in the end, I'm sure that both of these laws want to open negotiations, at least that's how I got the impression. As far as I'm concerned, I will support any result of these negotiations, which is acceptable to the motionary here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23168	Thank you. Representative Hazim Rančić, hearing. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23169	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, as the introduction said, respected colleague Džaferović, we of the Party of Democratic Action are aware of the obligation that, as the argument states, the Parliamentary Assembly should amend the provisions of the Election Law, in the first order, therefore, respecting and in accordance with the Constitutional Court Decision No 9/09 of 26.11.2010, which found that Article 19.2 item (1) and (3), and Article 19.4 position (1) violates Article 25.b) of the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, as well as the second Constitutional Court Decision of BiH No 23/14, which you have mentioned, which you have been calling upon, since 01.12.2016, which found that the provisions of Articles 10.12. Position (2) and 20.16 A position (2) do not comply with the Constitution of BiH, here we have made one modest proposal of the law, which you have been called upon, since 01.12.2016, which has determined that the provisions of members of the City of Parliament in order to find a solution in the City and 20. With respect to the decisions, of course, we know that there are other rulings and constitutional courts within Bosnia and Herzegovina, we also have the International Court of Justice, and concerning both the Constitution, and democracy, and human rights, and the amendments and additions of the Election Law, which, of course, are necessary to implement, in this attempt we treat these two problems and by adherence to the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, in particular to Article 8.3 which reads – in the House of Peoples there will be at least one Bošnjak, one Srbin and one Hrvat from each canton that has at least one such MP in their legislative body, we propose a solution where all 10 cantons will be allowed to both Bošnjak, Srbin, and Hrvat and ostali have a chance to be elected to be elected to the House of People of the Federation of BiH. Unlike the previous Law, here, which I have not even applied for, I have applied for, but here in some agreement and conversation I have published a discussion where the explicits are banned from both Bošnjak and Srbin, and Hrvat, and ostali to be candidates at all and to be elected to the House of the Federation. So, in this previous law, in three cantons of Bošnjak, 64 cannot possibly be candidates, Hrvat also in three cantons, Srbin also in three cantons, and ostali cannot be represented from six cantons. We also made a proposal concerning the election of the Council and mayors in Mostar, noting that this is a kind of special status, both Mostar and Sarajevo, are prescribed by the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, and that the provisions of Article 8.1 relating to the City of Sarajevo, its organisation, and the provisions of Article 9.1 and in particular, I will read to you, in the position (3) of one sentence, the position (4) – the city areas are constituencies, so it says in the Constitution, in the Constitution of the Federation. We want it to come to an election and we want it to be implemented and this is, therefore, the way. There were several sentences also from respected counterpart Krišto and respected colleague Lovrinović, that this was unconstitutional, unconstitutional, unconstitutional. That's absolutely not true. I repeat, I have read the provisions of the Constitution, to confirm, the Constitutional Court has declared the unconstitutional provisions of the Election Law, and I respect that, but the Constitutional Court has not declared its judgments unconstitutional provisions of the Constitution and it is questionable whether it can. And you're aware of that, you're absolutely aware of it, I appreciate you both as a colleague, and as a lawyer, and knowing that you, at least from the media as far as I can hear, after this Constitutional Court decision, appealed to that very provision of the Constitution. Whether the Constitutional Court will be able to both legally and theoretically evaluate the Constitution itself and question itself to say yes or not, it is more in a level related to a practical solution, we will see how it will go, we are legalists, but your appeal to a member that I have read says that you are aware that there is this provision and that the Constitutional Court has not, of course, abolished it. And I think the Constitutional Court can't, of course, do, his job is to assess the constitutionality of laws and other acts in accordance with the Constitution, and it's not their authority to change or bring the Constitution. After all, my story doesn't have to be true either, I want to repeat the thing that I know that respected HDZ colleagues know well, because I appreciate them both as people and as lawyers, above this constitution is the Constitution of BiH, but above it is the European Convention which is directly and primarily applied and sought, and establishes the same rights for all, regardless of Bošnjak, Hrvat, Srbin and ostali. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So they too must be given the right, one of the standards is active and passive voting rights throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23170	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23171	That's right, fellow Rančić, equal rights without exception, but I'd like to refer a little to what Mr Ahmetović said, because we have such a system that we have to be on the check who's going to say something, because we don't have time, and neither does the club president. So, this one, said Mr Ahmetović that citizens of this government have been suffering for 25 years, a colleague of Ahmetović, so you know well that by 2000, he just isn't here, I guess somewhere he listens to me, so there were no these questions. Remember, did we move? It wasn't until we were put in a position to be deprived of our political rights as a political people. No one spoke of these questions until it intervened in the Constitution of the Federation, the Constitution of the County, in the Law of Elections beyond our will, beyond what we agreed in the peace process and so on. Further, therefore, that there was respect, that there were feelings for what you all here are telling us with a list, so when the story of the constitutionality of what it is, you say it's nakarad, so what did you agree to, what did you bring us into? Well, you've brought the Croatian people into the position of a national minority, so we won't be able to decide in, perhaps in five, six municipalities and maybe in one two or three counties, if you don't stop them, how you've chased them away. Well, therefore, it is amazing that love for our Croatian people, which I thank you for, and you would best show us 65 to agree to finally, therefore, we must agree with you, of course, that we finally have the principles of choosing our representatives in bodies that represent us and nothing more. And nothing else, we don't touch the election for civil homes, we don't touch the election of general nature, so don't disabling the public and ourselves. If you don't have the strength, as I said, to cross the rubicon, and although for all the mistakes you've had, which some of you have talked about vividly, therefore, you have an on-call culprit, it's us, which is notorous untruth. With a number like this, this kind of political force that we have, and this is how it's put in our position, so that's a complete lie. If you want this country of equal nations Please, gentlemen, support the decision for the Hrvat to elect their representatives to the House of People and the Presidency. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Here, you're on the move, you're in charge.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23172	Thank you. Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23173	Here, first I signed up for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but here, let's say, since I'm going to say a few sentences. A respected colleague signed up under the wrong assumption and didn't say anything about what I said...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23174	It's not up to you, but on colleague Sadik, he's not on you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23175	He mentioned me, it was the beginning, and he said we brought the Croatian people. I didn't make those mistakes, I didn't bring in that position, nor do I want to, Bog forbid, and all my neighbors and colleagues and friends know how I treat all people, regardless of faith, nation, color of skin, any quality. I'm sure my neighbors know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23176	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. And now according to the conclusion we adopted, we return to point 3. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2018. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. The commission has finished their work, and frankly we haven't received any written material yet, so I urge the President of the Committee on Budgets and Finance to introduce us to the views of this Committee. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23177	I thank the chairman. I welcome you. 66 The Committee on Finance and Budgets held the 59th session, in line with the House's decision, at which it discussed the Law on the Budget of BiH institutions in the second phase of Parliament, within the deadline set by the House today. A number of amendments have been submitted to the Committee, slightly more than 20 amendments. I'll tell you, what you'll probably get later in writing, now if it can help orally what was on the Committee. So there were more than 20 amendments that the amendment's proposings explained to the Committee on what it was about. Representative of the Proposer of the Law on the Budget of BiH institutions warned that one part of the amendment did not... As chairman of the Committee, I took the risk, i.e. we as the Committee, to make a statement on all the amendments proposed by the legislators, respecting that in Article 126. [[I don't get it, the microphone's off]] The rules of procedure have been laid down that it is the House that can assess whether the adopted amendments in the Committee cause internal discrepancies or contain legal and technical errors. I will inform the House that out of all the amendments that were proposed on time as regards the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, only one set containing the three amendments, proposed by colleagues Bosić and Bojić, was adopted and the Law on the Implementation of the Budget was adopted in the second phase together with these adopted three amendments to the budget. These amendments, I hope especially that are adopted, you will get, I don't know how we're going to propose to the amendments, whether and how I can consume my right as set out in Article 124. The Rules of Procedure, but here, I believe now that we're going to get a meal about what I said. So, adopted, of some twenty-something amendments, a set of three amendments by colleagues Bosić and Bojić was adopted, I think he's somewhere in the copying phase, at least here these amendments, so MPs can see them before the debate and possible decision-making. About so much for one session of the committee that ad hoc was called up and was on, and in a bile debate, it ended this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23178	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Bećirović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23179	I'm looking for a half-hour break on behalf of the DF Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23180	I'm giving a half-hour break at the DF Club's proposal. So I'll see you here at 6:35. Honorable MPs and MPs at least until they're out, but you'll get a notice through the clubs, so we'll be working by 6:45 now, unless we finish up at 21 hours with the session. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23184	We had to agree on certain amendments concerning this Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23185	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić, debate. Here you go, counsel. He is missing, MP Mirsad Đonlagić, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23186	Madam Chairman, thank you. In accordance with Rule 124(2) of the Rules of Procedure, we propose, regardless of the position of the Finance and Budget Commission, that amendments to the SBB Club be discussed here today or tonight. That's one thing, and the other thing, I'd like to ask you if you can say about this follow-up session at 21 o'clock, until the plan and the proposal to work, if we're going to work until we finish work tonight or if we're just going to have some points on the topic of discussion, making a decision, so here's the thing, and there's two things that I have nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23187	Thank you. Here's the suggestion: we work until 6:45 and we take a break by 21:00, and the proposal to work would be to finish the budget, so, and then we'd take a break, so the session would continue the second day of the plan and the calendar that we've determined. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23188	So here's how Professor Đonlagić already said, just to clarify, therefore, the details, in accordance with Rule 124(2) of the Rules of Procedure, when the amendment is not accepted on the committee of the Proposer, in this case the SBB Parliament Club, has the right to defend the same in the House session, and we do so this way. We have officially delivered this, I am not sure whether the services have already passed it on to the other MPs, but although it is six amendments with all six, it is only a formality, because with all six it treats only one question, which is that the discretionary means belonging to each other, so not to the BiH presidency institution, but to the individual members of the Presidency and the chairman and the two vice-presidents of the Council of Ministers, in total of 540,000 marks, are redistributed for the needs of increasing the already existing separations, so no new separations are being introduced, but are already increasing in different amounts for the merited and top athletes of international importance, projects of the institutions of culture, reward for science, and support for technical culture and innovation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will also remind you that, when it comes to the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, these discretionary funds belong to the members of the presidency and the chairman and two deputy prime ministers' council of directors, one relatively new category, and as Mr Džaferović said, once something is in the 68 budget, it is very difficult to get out. I hope that on this example we will show, is that, that these discretionary funds that are not subject to the decision of any authority but these officials, based on their functions, will individually allocate these funds, that we will stop this practice that is not so long, I think it has only started with this convocation of the existing BiH Presidency and will not prove that this is impossible to remove once it is inserted. So much for this, and now I'm going to use it, not to report again, Article 83, if I understand you, Rule 83 (4) of the Rules of Procedure – the chairman at any time if he decides that it is meaningful he can give a break that can't be longer than an hour. Well, I'm just warning you of that Rules of Procedure if you're planning to take a two-hour break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23189	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23190	I thank the chairman. Since my amendments concerning procurement, i.e. the allocation of funds for the purchase of GPS bracelets for persons with autism and development difficulties, are not supported by the Commission for Finance and Budget. In accordance with Article 124. I'm also looking for the Rules of Procedure, which is what I've already instructed, and I hope the services have divided it, so that the House can make a statement about it. And all the arguments regarding restructuring, the finance minister himself, who was in the role of an authorised proposing, said that technically correct amendments and easy to implement, because what I suggested was that only a part of the border funds be singled out for other border funds, for persons with autism and developmental difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23191	Thank you. No more reports, closing the debate on this agenda item. Now we should make a statement. We have some suggestions from MP Jasmin Emrić's conclusions, we have a proposal from the representative of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil and we have amendments from the SBB, so I'm asking only the services to bring us, and we have an amendment, as far as I understand in the debate, by the representative of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, is that right, renewed. I don't know if anyone else renewed. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Salko Sokolović. Give us all the amendments, but before we make a statement about the amendments, we declare the conclusion of Representative Jasmin Emrić. Would you like me to read the text of the conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23193	Read it. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23194	The Parliamentary House asks the BiH Council of Ministers to seek to increase the financial framework for the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in line with the shown real needs of budgetary users during the construction, harmonisation and adoption of the Global Framework for the fiscal balance sheet and policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the next period. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Of the 38 present – for 20, against 13. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Shall we go round two now? Please circle two. Of the 38 present – for 20, against 13, abstentions 5. There is a general majority, but there are 2/3 against it in Republika Srpska. The proposal for a conclusion did not receive the required majority. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of a representative of the Maja Gasal-Vražlica-The Devil. You want to read the text of the conclusion? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the BiH Defence Ministry, will increase the budget by 2.5% in accordance with the signed Agreement, the Armed Forces Modernisation Plan, could access the activities we have committed to under Article 84. The defence law -- the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Presidency, and all defence entities within their own institution and legal jurisdiction will carry out the necessary activities to join Bosnia and Herzegovina in NATO. In order to implement the modernisation plan, then, it is necessary to increase the budget by 2.5%.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23196	Let us vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23197	Of the 38 present – for 17 against 12, abstentions 9. There is a general majority, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity. Shall we go straight to the second round? I'd like a second round of votes, please. Of the 40 present – for 19, against 12, abstentions 9. There is a general majority, but there are 2/3 in Republika Srpska's entity against. I find that the proposal for a conclusion has not received the required majority. 70 Now I ask you to plead with me on the amendments that have been tabled, here, during the plenary session, means restored. Well, let's go, I hope they're in line. First, we are going to propose an amendment to the Alliance for a Better Future of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23198	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23199	Individually? Do we need to read all the amendments or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23200	No, they're split now.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23201	Now they're divided. Should I read? Let's take it in a row, all right. We declare the proposal of the Amendment and the Club of the SBB. Of the 40 present... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat the vote. Of the 40 present – for 14, against 15, abstention 11. There's no general majority. I find that the amandman i I didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to the Declaration on amandman II.. Please make a statement. Of the 40 present – for 14, against 15, abstention 11. There's no general majority. I find that amandman ii has not received the necessary majority. We move to the Declaration on amandman III.. Please make a statement. Of the 40 present – for 10, against 20, abstentions 10. There's no general majority. I agree that amandman III did not receive the required majority. We move to a statement on Amendment IV of the SBB Club. Please plead. Of the 40 present – for 8, versus 20, abstentions 12. There's no general majority. amandman IV did not receive the required majority. Now I ask you to come forward with a proposal for an amendment from the representative of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. You've also received an amandman. We have a total of one, two, three, four, five, six, and I didn't get one, this is where I get four.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23203	71 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23204	It's not on the next page. Only that they're a mistake, is there any more amendments? I don't have one here. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Then don't make a mistake here. How much is a representative of Maja Gasal? Two. Then they're stuck here by mistake. There is, so... see, here is amandman ii, so amandman v stands here, it's an amendment to the SBB Club. Now, please, with patience, let's be clear about the amendment to the SBB. Of the 38 present – for 9, against 21, abstention 8. There's no general majority. Amendment V did not receive the required majority. Please let us be clear about amandman VI of the SBB Club. Of the 38 present – for 11, against 19, abstention 8. There's no general majority. Amendment VI did not receive the required majority. Now, I ask you to plead with me on the amendment of representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. We declare the amandman I.. od the 38 present – for 14, v 22, abstention 2. There's no general majority. I find we haven't adopted Amendment I. We're moving to a statement on Amendment II of Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Please make a statement. Of the 38 present – for 14, versus 23, abstention 1. There's no general majority. I find that we have not adopted Amendment II of the Representatives of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. We have representatives Salko Sokolović, Senad Šepić, Sadik Ahmetović, we have amendments. In one proposal we have an amandman i, is that right, Amendment II and Amendment III, and then we have more, is that right from the same, same proposings, again amandman I i amandman II.. ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23208	Package.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-17-0.u23209	How about a package? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here, on the amendment's proposal, we declare five amendments to the package. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
