ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23479	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable representatives and guests, I am opening the 57th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Guests are invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency; the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers; representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who follow the work of our House; representatives of the media. The session also invited representatives of ten institutions after the conclusion adopted at last session of the House, and discussed the report by the Office for Auditing Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions on the financial audit of BiH institutions for 2016. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. From the BiH Council of Ministers' Office, Denis Zvizdić, we have been informed that the president will not be able to attend the session. From the Office of Civil Affairs Minister Adil Osmanović, we have been informed that the minister is unable to attend the session due to the official trip, and from the Office of Foreign Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina Igor Crnadko, we have also been informed that the minister is not able to attend the session due to the official trip. Also, from the BiH Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Office, we have been informed that Minister Mirko Šarović will not be present at today's session. The absence from the session was justified by: First Vice-President Mladen Bosić, Đorđo Krčamar, Monika Tomić, jasmin Emrić and Željko Komišić. The delay was announced by representative Diana Zelenika. According to service data at this time, 32 representatives are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in the call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are in line with the order of arrival, and the representatives will present them in this order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23480	Thank you. As you know, I asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers who was present at the last session, but refused to answer the question. In accordance with the business provisions he was obliged to answer the question today. He's gone today, so I'll wait for the next session, and I'll wait until he answers my question. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23481	Thank you, counsel. I give my word to Agent Denis Bećirović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23482	The Honorable Chairman. My question is addressed to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. The question I'm asking today is the fourth or fifth time I've asked him in this term. The question is -- why has Bosnia and Herzegovina's competent authorities not yet signed a contract with the Islamic Community in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Such a contract exists with the Catholic Church and with the Serbian Orthodox Church. We at previous sessions when we were asking these questions, almost, here, for four years, we usually had a type answer – only it wasn't. Here, today we expect a final answer to see what the problem is. I remind you, all religious communities in this country should be equal. It is both the letter and the spirit and the Constitution and the law that treats this problem. The state as it currently has been for me has never been, even in the 20th century, no matter what state-law framework the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina was in. That kind of inequality is, therefore, unrecorded. It's likely that someone would be in a position to behave in power that would be the subject of severe criticism. It is time, therefore, for the public to hear what is the problem that and in that segment we have such a flagrant nervousness. Since there are no Prime Ministers here, I assume the Minister of Human Rights will give the correct answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23483	Thank you. Answer, Minister Semiha Borovac. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23484	Honored chairman, respected members of this high house. Here, let me answer this question, although I do not have much information, but with those with whom we are at our disposal it is true that the proposal for a basic agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Islamic Community in Bosnia and Herzegovina has not yet been discussed at the BiH presidency session. Namely, the text of the Treaty proposal has been agreed between members of the Bosnian People's Presidency and members of the Republika Srpska presidency, however, this has not yet been achieved with a member of the Croatian People's Presidency, which is also the main reason why the proposal for a basic contract was not held at the BiH presidency session. But here, however, it is expected that this issue will be settled and put on the agenda, that the deal will be reached and put on the BiH presidency's agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23485	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23486	Sadly, what I have already stated has been true. The Council of Ministers still has no relevant information or will not directly call those responsible for this situation. Also, what I have been talking about for almost four years has been confirmed that the contract is missing and that it is another form of classical inequality in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have three members of the Presidency, the public in this country must know exactly who is responsible for introducing or implementing an inequality policy in this segment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If that doesn't have the strength to tell the Council of Ministers for any reason It should be made public that, first of all, the main brake [[the speaker is warned on time]] BiH Presidency member Mladen Ivanić. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23487	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23488	I thank the chairman and welcome you, deputies, colleagues, colleagues and everyone else present in the White Hall. I had a question for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and it was about the content of the answer to the question of the European Commission, therefore, from the questionnaire, the question was – How long will it be hidden from Parliament and the public? Are the official responses sent as official data the results of two different lists, in which one 150,000 people differ, and for which reason, at the press conference, he tried to justify himself by saying that answers cannot be changed by the Constitution, by law or by any other act? I wish the chairman were here, if he could answer these questions to some other member of the Council of Ministers, I would be grateful.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23489	Thank you. The answer in front of the Council of Ministers? I don't see anyone answering. Does the representative want to comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23490	Well, I guessed. I wouldn't either if I were them. Here, come on, let's say we leave this for the next session and we'll, uh, talk about those answers. It's going to be current for a long time.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23491	Thank you. I give the word to Mensura Beganović. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23492	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. I, here, when I heard what my colleague Denis Bećirović said, that the fifth, sixth time he asked the same question, I said I went well, only the second time I asked the same question, after two four years. So enough time for those answers that I received from the Ministry of Transport and Communications to realize the things they promised in early 2016, which is that the law will be passed, that is, implemented, implemented by the Law on Electronic Signature and will therefore be made available to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, both to businessmen and to natural persons. So I again ask the same question, or a different formulated question to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Transport and Communications of BiH and the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury. It consists of four questions, so – What is the situation, now I finally wonder how things are today about the implementation of the Law on Electrical Signature in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was passed 12 years ago and has never been implemented, so 12 years? Meanwhile, the Directive to bring the legislation previously adopted has changed, and now the new European Commission Directive 910/2014 has been adopted, in force since 1 July 2016. So if they agreed to anything in the meantime, it's no longer worth it. Is the Office for Control and Accreditation established by the Ministry of Communications under the obligation of the previous, and has the rules on the application of the electronic signature been drawn up and adopted? This Regulation adopts the Council of Ministers and one of the obligations under the 2015 work programme of the Council of Ministers has been made to adopt several regulations, including this Regulation concerning electronic signature, the Regulation on conditions for the issuing of qualified electronic certificates and a Regulation on the registration of certification bodies. So, three regulations that apparently neither one of them saw the light of day. We will today have the opportunity to talk about the revisions of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, institutions, different institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, among which I will mention the same, the same problem, therefore, the absence or non-application of the Law on Electronic Signature, and we are investing in very different things, such as, for example, the personal card of a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina that contains in itself a chip that does not serve anything, so let's say, the Directorate for indirect taxation that invests in software for electronic reporting of VAT to any of the operators who will not be able to use it. because there will be no electronic signature in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So we're entangled, we're entangled in solutions that are logical and that lead us to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23493	Thank you. Before I answer, I want to know that you've asked four questions. Here pursuant to Article 167(3), a representative may ask one parliamentary question for up to two minutes, and it must be briefly and clearly formulated as a rule that it can be answered immediately and without preparation. Here I am calling someone from the Council of Ministers, but I think there's the Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications. Here you go, answer me. That you have that in mind because of the answer, and also because of future questions asked, oral, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23494	President-in-Office, members of the College, distinguished representatives, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Since a question has been raised here with several questions I have united mainly in one response on behalf of the Council of Ministers and on behalf of the Ministry of Communications and Transport. Therefore, at the 80th session held on 10.11.2016, the BiH Council of Ministers agreed to set up the Supervisory and Accreditation Office in accordance with Article 20. The e-signature bill. Also in the previous period, 5 sublegal acts were adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers to define the work of the Supervisory and Accreditation Office closer, as well as the e-signatures themselves. In accordance with the above, the conditions for the implementation of the Law on Electronic Signature in Bosnia and Herzegovina were fully met. The Working Group within the Ministry has drawn up a draft law on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions that is in line with EU Regulation 910/2014 which will be put out of force by the Electronic Signature Act. The same will arrange the use of electronic identification in both the Administration and other cases and other actions. Recognition of the means of electronic identification of natural and legal persons, the establishment of rules for trust services, in particular for electronic transactions, and the rights and responsibilities of natural and legal persons providing services for the design, verification and validity of the electoral signature, the time stamp, the electronic seal and the certificate for the authentication of websites. The draft law is in line to the greatest extent possible with this EU Regulation, as confirmed by the signed Declaration of Harmony by the BiH Directorate for European Integration. The draft law is currently in the phase of obtaining an opinion after which it will be referred to the adoption procedure by the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Parliamentary Assembly. The Office for Control and Accreditation of Certificaters was formed at the Ministry of Communications and Transport and filled with two state officials, the Head of the Office and an expert advisor for the elektronic signature. The office started working on what all the conditions for the application of electronic signature in open systems have been met, i.e. full implementation of the Electronic Signature Act. [[the speaker is warned on time]] As outlined in the previous period by the BiH Council of Ministers, sublegal acts have been adopted to define the work of the Supervisory and Accreditation Office closer, as well as the certificates of the electronic signature itself, which are: 1. Regulation on closer conditions for the issue of qualified electronic certificates; 2. The competent authority of the competent authority of the competent authority of the Member State of the Member State of the other Member State of the Member State of origin of the Member State of the Member State of origin of the Member State of origin of the Member State of the Member State of origin of the Member State of the Member State of origin of the Member State of origin of the Member State of the Member State of origin of the Member State of the Member State of origin of the Member State of the Member State of the country of dispatch. Regulation on measures and procedures of use and protection of electronic signatures, means of forming electronic signatures and certification systems. The adoption of these sub-legislative acts, as well as the establishment of the Office for Control and Accreditation, fully gave way to the implementation of the Law on Electronic Signature in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23495	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Representative's comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23496	Thank you for your response. I am going to comment on your comment that I have asked four questions next time it all comes down to one question, because it really concerns the same topics and it is impossible to understand them differently. I am pleased that it has moved off the dead end and that we will not welcome another European Commission directive that will make us change the law without applying it either. Please, the answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23497	Thank you. I give my word to MPs Dušanka Majkić. Here you go, MPs. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23498	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, present-day guests at this session. My question was asked by the chairman of the Council of Ministers orally, and in writing to the Ministry of Transport and Communication of the Federation Government regarding the unconstitutional use of old names of settlements in Republika Srpska in all official places in the Federation, travel routes, geographical maps, media, the internet. So in 2009, the People of Republika Srpska Assembly adopted the Law on the Territorial Organisation of Republika Srpska and in Article 5 of that Law, all and 61 municipalities that make up Republika Srpska and their official names were named. So the Municipality of Brod is no longer called the Bosnian Ship, Gradiška is not Bosnian Gradiška, Prince is not Skender Vakuf, Kozarska Dubica is not Bosnian Dubica, Novi City is not Bosnian Novi and Shamac is not Bosnian Shamac. In the adoption of the Law on Territorial Organisation, complete procedures including the protection of vital national interest have been implemented. Even the Constitutional Court has found that the Law on a single birth number does not comply with the Constitution, as it does not contain the names of the Law on the Territorial Organisation of Republika Srpska. The Constitutional Court rejected me as an unfounded request by the Club of Delegates from the Bosniak People in the Council of Nations who requested me to return the name Bosnian to all these cities. My question is – What do you plan to do for the constitutional names of municipalities in Republika Srpska to be used in the Federation in all official places, travel routes, geographical maps, media, the internet, etc.? So, since there is no Chairmanial Council of Ministers, I suggest that my question be delivered to him and that I receive a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23499	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. Let's go to the next question. I give my word to Senator Senad Šepić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23500	Thank you very much. My questions to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, since it is not there, may also be the minister, the deputy chairman, the finance minister, refer to – What measures have the BiH Council of Ministers taken so far specifically to prevent abuses of fuel collection and protect citizens from the expected purchase of other life supplies after this latest introduction of fuel excise duty? A brief explanation: The fact is that governments, the Council of Ministers and that entity governments were completely unprepared throughout this process. I have a feeling that the main power and the main energy are being spent on providing that parliamentary majority and that the law is being passed, so that the Excise and Fuel Pick-up Act is being passed. As early as December 1st, some oil distributors and people who are engaged in oil sales have already started to collect before the new Excise Act officially entered into force since February 1st. So these purchases are much higher than the ones on a large number of, uh, these gas stations are much more than the price, than the amount of excise duty itself. So we don't hear from the state at all about this, we haven't heard from the official institution that she's given a position, that she's reacting to something in that sense. You know that we from the Independent Block, when we failed to stop that fuel collection, were already proposing a measure that would mean a different, fairer, I would say, more responsible attitude towards people, to establish the highest, highest amount of 7 margins, and that those who make the most money now and now both around this law and about this fuel collection, so oil distributors, to carry the burden of collection and to reduce the burden of that collection at the expense of those, I would say, in the first place, the most vulnerable category, but generally citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's why I'd like to hear exactly what the Council of Ministers does to me in this particular sense. We also have our current initiative, we will have it today in the Parliamentary Assembly, but it would be important. that we have on that side, so now the answer to what has the Council of Ministers done so far? [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23501	Answer, someone from the Council of Ministers? I don't see it. -Advocacy comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23502	Well, here, I already said part of it. So, I think that, I think, should have been in some way, if there was no chairman that we should have had some kind of comment from one of the Council of Ministers. But what's my message? So the state in this case has to react, the state can't be deaf to everything that's going on, so it doesn't hear you, that state that's happening on the ground. The state also made us have this accumulation of excise fuel, and as I just said all the potential, all the capacity of people was given to gather 22 hands and to have a new one, to have this accumulation of excise. Back then, the main people said there would be no collection, they said there would be no collection of even fuel, and after that, there would be no collection of other life supplies. So, once we are, we still don't see that there's a road. Minister Bevanda, here he is, uh, Minister Bevanda is here today with us, in one part of the media saying that this is most likely and will not go into road construction, after which there were some comments different. What do I mean? There is a concrete proposal and I ask you, I call on the Council of Ministers to make positive [[the speaker is warned on time]] in the case of an independent bloc proposal to determine the maximum margin price [[the speaker is warned on time]] and to prevent the abuses we see today in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23503	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Salki Sokolović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23504	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present. My question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent resolution within the Council of Ministers. Namely, the Office for the Audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions carried out an impact review on the subject: the timely public procurement process in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. The audit was carried out with a view to establishing delays in public procurement procedures for Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in relation to the prescribed and established deadlines, and to point out the main causes leading to the untimely implementation of the public procurement procedure in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions as well as the consequences of such a situation. The audit showed that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not always take adequate and timely activities to ensure that public procurement is carried out in a timely manner, which is why most institutions have 8 delays in carrying out public procurement procedures. This leads to an unlawful extension of the contract with existing suppliers, and in some cases to the loss of the appropriations for the purchase of the necessary goods, services or works, depending on what is the subject of the procurement. In addition, data suggest that almost 60% of the procurement procedures were initiated after scheduled deadlines. Question – When will the Council of Ministers set up a system of monitoring and reporting on planned and implemented public procurement, reasons for not implementing or delaying public procurement, with a view to strengthening the responsibility of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or whether the Council of Ministers intends to consider increasing responsibility and establishing a system of sanctioning the management of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in cases of years of failure in public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23505	Thank you. Answer, Council of Ministers? -Advocacy comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23506	Thank you. Here, I expect this question to remain alive and to have an answer at the next session, it's very important. Here are the issues of corruption and crime that are present in the Bosnian Herzegovina public on a daily basis, we are talking about how to fight, and here are the concrete things that are visible we are weakly taking certain measures to prevent it. I'm saying this in favor of this topic because last time we were sitting very quickly and could somehow go over this agenda point. We had an analysis, but we forgot, here, to point out that more than 40% of the public procurement situation we have a delay in the same and we have a contract with a previous supplier through an annex or a contract, which the Public Procurement Act doesn't know at all, which means that those who are purchasing goods already, in my opinion, are entering into a particular process or corruption or crime and I think it's competent, and that's a great deal of the Council of Ministers when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, they have to do something to spot this problem and, here's to say, sanction those who behave in this way, because all of this can, if there's a system, be defined in certain stages that are legally foreseen. Here, I hope I get an answer at the next session, and I think it just couldn't or should have been chaired by the Council of Ministers, the competent Ministry of Finance and the vault could have, in some ways, reacted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23507	Thank you. I give my word to MPs Hanka Vajzović. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23508	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I welcome all the docks. 9 I have referred the question to the Council of Ministers, specifically the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and that is: Has the Ministry of Transport and Communications of BiH ever, if so, resolved the issues in question, I mean the Defence, Contract, Prices, Debts, with the Standard for Education from Širko Brijeg? I asked, therefore, seven and a half months ago, what activities the Ministry has taken in connection with the disputes concerning this Centre and whether the Ministry of Transport and Communications is paying 5% of the amount of money it has from that total amount of money that carriers and drivers necessarily pay to the Centre. As usual, that's when I got half the answers from the Ministry. The first part is not answered at all, and the second part has tried something, so I seem to be tenantly pressured by whatever... with a lot of effort I've been able to find out that these funds are not being paid. The answer was about like this – the Ministry of Transport and Communications asked for something from 2014 from the Ministry of Finance. They replied that they could not do so until they gave consent to the 2011 rule, therefore, pure confusion. The rule is made by a minister, so it is, so it isn't. Generally, a new Regulation was adopted three years after the disputed one, eventually, at the very end of the last term, and the Ministry prepared a draft on the prices of the expert examination. [[the speaker is warned on time]] If they were cooperative, I would only say one sentence, at the end of the answer, it is said to me this way – this 2014 draft decision will soon be delivered to the Council of Ministers for adoption, and the Ministry will in the meantime carry out the process of reviewing the proposed distribution ratio according to the 2014 Ministry of Finance Opinion. Here, therefore, pure confusion, seven and a half months have passed, so I'm interested in what was done in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23509	Thank you. Council of Ministers, Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23510	This question was received yesterday at the Ministry in the late afternoon hours so that there was not enough time to prepare fully and quality, so we will deliver it to the honourable MPs by written means within the scheduled time.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23511	Thank you. -Advocacy comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23512	Thank you very much. Uh, the Ministry doesn't surprise me, it's a short time, but it's also a very simple question. I would like to point out once again that based on this new one, these are very interesting answers coming from this ministry, based on that new Regulation after three months in December 2014, a draft on the prices of the expert exam in Široki Brijeg has been prepared and the draft obviously gives way. Two and a half years, so what's the rush, two and a half years after that draft was prepared in half of 2017, came my question, and then coldly answered, first that the draft decision from 2014 will be delivered to the Council of Ministers for adoption soon, seven and a half months ago, and secondly, as the Ministry is here in the meantime conducts the procedure. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It is only a question of whether or not it is a Javaljuk, about ignorance or something else, in every 10 cases it is also a question of the Council of Ministers – will it really be adopted in 2018 by some draft decision from 2014 or will the deadline be transferred soon to the next term?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23513	Thank you. I give the word to Zaim Backović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23514	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm asking the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Security. Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs issue consent to block parking spaces for tenants and for the purposes of the embassy? Is the same ministry giving consent that embassies are girded by barbed wire with razor blades like military camps? The Ministry of Security – Does the Ministry of Security have any knowledge that the Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities voluntarily blocks the parking spaces and invites the Spider to remove the vehicle from the regular parking space? When I get an answer, I'll give an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23515	Thank you. Council of Ministers' response, Minister of Security. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23516	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs and MPs This parliamentary question was addressed to two ministries, we took advantage of the opportunity, requested a response from the ministry, that part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, sublimed it, and here we offer a common response. I'll do a faster story and finish this in two minutes. The BiH foreign ministry does not issue agreement to block parking spaces for the needs of certain diplomatic and consular offices in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Foreign diplomatic representations in Bosnia and Herzegovina are renting a number of parking spaces for parking purposes in accordance with the current traffic ministry's rules on Canton Sarajevo. We also note that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not give consent to the installation of barbed wire on the fences of diplomatic and consular offices, nor does it influence the way construction works are carried out on those buildings. The municipal and cantonal authorities in charge of urbanism shall agree to carry out those works. Police officers of the Police Department for the Coordination of Police Authorities shall provide security to protected facilities, and if they detect a violation of the Law on the Security of Traffic in the immediate vicinity of the facilities they provide, they shall inform the police officers of the Ministry of Interior of Canton of Sarajevo who shall subsequently take measures and actions out of their jurisdiction. During the visit of senior foreign delegations, the insurance of public meetings and the reception, whose insurance is carried out in the first degree, the traffic regime around and close to protected facilities is temporarily changing, and according to the solution of the Canton Sarajevo Ministry of Traffic. The traffic regime has been amended by members of the 11 MP Transport Police Office, Canton Sarajevo, who is assisted by police officers of the Directorate in those affairs when the need arises. The plans to provide diplomatic and consular representations include, among other things, a blockade of those facilities. For example, on 12.02.2018, when a notification of the installation of an explosive device at the Embassy of the Netherlands, members of the Directorate evacuated the staff, and the blockade of the facility and the area around the facility located on Grbaička 4th Municipality of Novo Sarajevo, with the aim of verifying the alleged installation of an explosive device and in order to protect property and persons in case the possible notification is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23517	Thank you Minister, but sooner, forgive the MP before you get a word in with the MP's comment, since the question was also asked to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Security, I saw that he tried to give an answer, and the Deputy Minister wanted to say about this, so here we want to give the Deputy Minister a word to give you a complete answer to this question, so you will get the word for your comment. Here you go, Deputy Brkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23518	Thank you, President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers. As you said, Minister Mektić mentioned in the section concerning the foreign ministry's competences that we are not really in charge of determining the parking site for the embassy, nor are we in charge of granting consent to the construction of embassies with barbed wire, as the distinguished representative Backović asked in his question. Our responsibility, within our own, is to intervene in the written communication of the Embassy, i.e. the diplomatic representation of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Ministry of Transport of the Competent Level in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as I remind you that not only are the embassies in Sarajevo but also individual, general consulates located in other cities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is the one that issues a solution to the reservation of parking spaces for the needs of the embassy. Under its jurisdiction, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs provides the competent Ministry of Transport with data on reciprocity, so let our diplomatic and consular representations in the capitals of these countries have the number of reserved parking spaces for the purposes of our embassies, but we do not have any influence on the identification of the number or location of parking spaces to be booked. The foreign ministry is also not in charge of giving consent to the construction of buildings, nor the fences around foreign diplomatic and consular offices. The Ministry may be forwarding permits from the competent authorities of the administration, whether they are entity, municipal, cantonal, if any diplomatic-consular representation asks us to. It is common practice for foreign diplomatic and consular representations, through their legal representatives, directly to the competent authorities. If your question, counselor, was about a specific case around the Chinese Embassy in Sarajevo I can say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is familiar with complaints from the citizens of the local community of Kosevo, the City of Sarajevo, therefore, on the fence that has been set. [[the speaker is warned on time]] In this connection, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs informed the Embassy of the People's Republic of China of complaints and organised a joint meeting of the representatives of the Embassy of the People's Republic of China, the Municipality of the Centre and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to reach a solution to the appearance of a fence that is more aesthetically acceptable, while ensuring an adequate level of security for the staff of the embassy itself. 12 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23519	Thank you, Deputy Minister. -Advocacy comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23520	I got answers to what I didn't ask, what I didn't ask. Dear Ministers, this is what it looks like for us to see today and what the tenants of Antun Hangi Street look at, as if the concentration camp is in the middle of Sarajevo. To make grief bigger, the fence is next to the primary school where the children go, to make grief the larger Embassy is located in the largest kindergarten in the former Yugoslavia, the largest one, that is, that is, the space they have taken, and that the sadness is greater than that environment was made by self-sufficient citizens of Sarajevo. Mr. Secretary of Security, yes, I own a parking solution, here it is, they have approval and it's written with marked diplomatic vehicles. Here's who's parked, if they're Some diplomat drivers then that's fine, but it's a problem of another nature, Mr. Minister, which is what was not given to them, which is what the gentlemen of coordination, or police, which is this and here on the side, blocked everything. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And when we park Here as a citizen, then the spiders carry our vehicles. [[the speaker is warned on time]] They claim If they had the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and imagine the answers, I want this to be heard well in public, we did this because terrorism is here. [[the speaker is warned on time]] He Who Leads Here Their safety in talking to me told me – barbed wire... [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23521	I'm warning you, counselor, on time. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23522	to park because there are terrorists here. The citizens, after this question, are most likely from tomorrow in full, because it's a dead end, she has no traffic, there's a road blocking her vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23523	Thank you. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. The agenda has been downloaded: Point 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1- 2568/17, of 30.10.2017. (second reading), as the bill was not discussed in the first reading in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. 13 Point 9. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Borjana Krišto, Law No: 01-02-1-205/18, of 18.01.2018. (first reading), at the request of the Constitutional Commission. Point 10. Report by the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Parliamentary Oversight – Proposer: Temporary Joint Commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1348/17, as of 26.05.2017, pursuant to the Secretary of the Joint Committee of the Houses to achieve the same text of the Law on Parliamentary Oversight. Points 26 to 35 were removed from the session agenda because the Foreign Affairs Committee did not hold a session due to the lack of quorum. In the sitting agenda, the following are added: point 3. A request by representative Saša Magazinović to consider the proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Staff member of the House of Representatives, issue: 0l-02- l-494/18, since 14.02.2018. Point 4. MPs' request: Mirsad Mešić, Saša Magazinović and Denis Bećirović to consider the Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representative, No: 0l-02-l-507/18, of 15.02.2018. Point 9 has been updated, given that the committee responsible did not accept the principles of the bill proposal, and now it is said – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Salko Sokolović, Senad Šepić and Sadik Ahmetović, Law No: 01-02-1-2884/17, of 14.12.2017, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Point 5 has been reformed, in accordance with Article 120(6) of the Rules of Procedure and the request of the Constitutional Commission, which requested for the second time the extension of the deadline for the delivery of the report, and this point now reads – Statement of the House of Representatives on the deadline for the submission of the report on the Amendments and Supplements Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Salko Sokolović, Senad Šepić and Sadik Ahmetović, issue: 0l-02-1-2400/17, of 09.10.2017. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23524	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. So, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, I propose a new item of the agenda, which would read – Information on the eligibility of the decision on height, manner and procedure for the right to compensation for transportation to work and transport from work adopted by the Council of Ministers of BiH at the 111th session, held in August 2017. All materials are distributed to colleagues and colleagues in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. 14 The reason for this is that I, as a representative, have therefore addressed the Council of Ministers in this matter, and received a reply from the esteemed Minister Bevanda. Also, if we look at the Council of Ministers' decision, which also has a table view, it is unclear what the Council of Ministers has been under way, that is, the assumptions for the adoption of one of these decisions, such as one table account, and it would be quite reasonable that the most legislative body, the Parliamentary Assembly, is today opening a debate on this, because there are indications, indications that it is, by introducing, or by entering into force of this Decision, that employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are being brought into an unequal position. Furthermore, when adopting this Decision, the Council of Ministers did not consult a representative union, but also since this Decision has one social impact, one broad debate should be opened by law and by law, in order to allow more participants to take part in the development of this Decision on the calculation of the amount of fees for transport from work and to work. I have also addressed the Ombudsman's institution for human rights, and in addition to me, many other officials and officials in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this response, which unfortunately I have waited a little more than four months for, and by a number of regulations that I have sent, finally I have received an answer, which also says that it is not clear what the Council of Ministers has managed and since many Europeans, and we say that we are seeking the European Union, to stimulate our citizens and citizens to use public transport to reduce the use of, whether, cars and air pollution, Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Council of Ministers, has totally eliminated the use of public transport and retailer to use all of us to use cars and to ask the question – what is this financial justification, which is that is the ecological justification? And I believe that, as the finance minister is present with us today, that we as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should open the debate, get adequate answers and make some conclusions accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23525	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23526	I thank the chairman. The laws of which, among other things, I and the signator are included and I would only take this opportunity to request that the Interim List of National Monuments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we have prepared, which would be good if the MPs had in the debate in this, supplementing the Criminal Law, be divided before it comes to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23527	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the agenda, no more reports. We have a request from Commissioner Maja Gasal-Vražalica to include a new item on the agenda, in fact I would like to inform the House that the representative has submitted one such vu point, only other formulations, she could not be found at this session in the Rules of Procedure, so we, as a College and finally the College, informed the representative that it should be reshape, so that this is done, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and this point, reads – Information on the eligibility of the Decision on height, manner and procedure for the exercise of the right to transport to 15 jobs and transport from work, adopted by the Council of Ministers of BiH at the 111st session, held on 24.08.2017. I ask you to plead so that we can place this item on today's unit of the House. Of the 37 present – for 24, there are no abstentions 13. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we are the Information on the eligibility of the decision on height, manner and procedure for the right to compensation for transportation to and from work, adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers at the 111st session. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Does that make sense, but here's what we're gonna do again. Please repeat the vote. Of the 37 present – for 28, there are no, abstentions 9. I agree that there is a general and entity majority, and that we have adopted information on the eligibility of the Decision on height, manner and procedure for the exercise of the right to transport to work and transport from work, adopted by the Council of Ministers at the 111st session, held on 24.08.2017, in today's session agenda. According to this order, if we're not taking a break, this should be kind of a business 23rd item of the agenda, so behind the 23rd point, it becomes 23rd, and after the 23rd, it becomes 24th and 25th and 26th points of the agenda. Now, I don't think there's any need to read, can we just say that the House session has a changed and updated agenda, which we added after adopting this point and that the session has a 26-point agenda. ♪ don't go in ♪ 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 55th and 56th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. A request by representative Saša Magazinović to consider the proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, No. 01-02-1-494/18, of 14.02.2018; 4. MPs' request: Mirsad Mešić, Saša Magazinović and Denis Bećirović to discuss the draft law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, No. 01-02-1-507/18, of 15.02.2018; 5. Declaration by the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the report on the Amendments and Supplements Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Salko Sokolović, Senad Šepić and Sadik Ahmetović, issue: 01- 02-1-2400/17, of 09.10.2017; 16 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Persons Reporting Corruption in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Aleksandra Pandurević, Borjana Krišto and Mirsad Isaković, Law No: 01-02-1-2687/17, of 15.11.2017. (second reading); 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Communication Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-2759/17, of 22.12.2017. (second reading), participatory; 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the independent and supervisory bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-7752/17, of 14.11.2017. (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Salko Sokolović, Senad Šepić and Sadik Ahmetović, Law No: 01-02-1-2884/17, of 14.12.2017, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 10. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the BiH Police Body Coordination Directorate for 2016, issue: 01-16-1-1857/17, of 27.07.2017; 11. Report of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Agency for Identification Identifying, Records and Data Exchange for 2016, issue: 01-16-1-1890/17, of 27.07.2017; 12. Report of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection for 2016, issue: 01-16-1-1930/17, of 27.07.2017; 13. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the BiH Border Police for 2016, issue: 01-16-1-934/17, of 27.07.2017; 14. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the BiH Ministry of Defence for 2016, issue: 01-16-1-1952/17, of 27.07.2017; 15. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Ministry of Security of BiH for 2016, issue 01-16-1-1955/17, of 27.07.2017; 16. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2016, issue: 01-16-1-1956/17, of 27.07.2017; 17. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2016, issue: 01-16-1-1974/17, of 27.07.2017; 18. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Directorate for indirect taxation of BiH for 2016, issue: 01-16-1978/17, of 27.07.2017; 19. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Audit of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council for 2016, issue: 01-16-1-1986/17, of 27.07.2017; 20. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of an independent bloc club representative, which reads: "The House of Representatives calls on the Council of Ministers of BiH to check together with the relevant entity institutions how much the retail margins of the distributors of oil and petroleum products in BiH per 1 litre of fuel so that they can be legally limited, and all to transfer part of the announced collection due to the introduction of additional excise duties to and from their burden to their announced collection for BiH citizens", issue: 01-02-12340/17, as of 02.02.2018; 21. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017, issue 05/1-50-19-273/18, dated 25.01.2018, and Working Plan of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2018, issue: 05/1-50-13-26-39-12/17, of 21.12.2017; 22. Proposal for a decision to appoint a parliamentary military commissioner for BiH, issue 01.02-34-1-418/18, dated 07.02.2018; 17 23. Information on the eligibility of the decision on height, manner and procedure for the exercise of the right to compensation for transportation to work and transport from work adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers at the 111st session, held on 24.08.2017. – Proposer of the point: representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica, number: 01-50-1-434-1/18, dated 20.02.2018; 24. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 14.12.2017, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative calling for the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to, no later than 30 days from the date of adoption of this initiative in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the amendment and addition of the Constitution of those cantons with the aim of ensuring the constitutional equality of Srbin, as well as to stop the canton, in which it has not been done so far, specify and ensure constitutional equality of the Bosnian and Serbian languages, and Latin and Cyrillic," number: 01-50-15-54/17, link number: 01-50-1-2891/17; 25. A review of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, Salko Sokolović and Sadik Ahmetović, submitted on 17.01.2018, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), we submit a representative initiative to determine the maximum amount of the retail margin of the oil and oil distributors", number: 01-50-1-194/18; 26. Adherence to ratification of the Loan Agreement (Balkan Strengthening Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-2851/17, dated 08.12.2017. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes 55th and 56th from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives Unit
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23530	Good afternoon, everyone. I welcome the chairman and your colleagues, colleagues and colleagues in the hall, all present. So, I would take this opportunity, after we adopt the 56th and 57th minutes from the session, because there were no occasions in the earlier sessions that were continued, interrupted, and I have one request from my colleagues Backović from earlier, so we agreed gentlemenly that I would make this one move, which I would now do, which is, therefore, to remind you of the 52nd session of the House of Representatives, we were discussing election law, amendments and additions, Mr Backović then discussed, and I was replicating him, so it was one debate in which I had some spoken words, which Mr Backović, therefore, spoke then, perceiving in one other way and which was not being interpreted as I perceived it. And in some ways, my colleague Backović has asked me to be, as I say, at a level to apologize for my mistake at Parliament, even yesterday, so I decided to apologize to Mr Backović in this House. And besides what I'm doing, it's time to use it, 18 I'm both Catholic and Christian, so it's time to make peace with myself, with people and with Bogo. So, I apologize to Mr Backović because then, in the debate, it was not a word spoken after Parliament, nor later, but in the debate, so I also perceived, so I was wrong, I apologized to him, and there was, therefore, a word about the name of the gentleman... So here's how much and I don't mind getting this into the record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23531	Well, here, before I give it, I see that there is a correction of the wrong allegation, in fact, as far as I understand the esteemed representative Lovrinović, this is actually not an objection to the minutes of 55th and 56th, but here we will not treat it as some kind of business mistake since it is a gesture that is good to hear, and it is good that it is part of our discussions and discussions and I welcome it anyway. Here, we have representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote, I don't know if it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23532	With all due apologies for the abuse. Nikola, I accept your apology, and I'm hoping we won't be in such situations. We all say at certain moments some sentence, floscule or structure that can have repercusions on the other side. I know I make sure I never hurt, and I hope we don't ever come to such a situation again in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23533	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the argument at point one. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure until this session of the House of Questions and Initiatives in writing were submitted by representatives: Senad Šepić referred four initiatives to the BiH Council of Ministers, and one to the Ministry of Communications and Transport; Mirsad Đonlagić asked the question to the BiH Ministry of Justice; Nikola Lovrinović asked the chairman of the City Council of the City of Tuzla; Representative Damir Arnaut addressed the initiative to the Canton Sarajevo Assembly, the Government of Canton Sarajevo, the City Council of Sarajevo, the Mayor of the City of Sarajevo, and asked seven questions to the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, and referred to the haste to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH in connection with the issue he asked 28.07.2017; Mensura Beganović asked additional questions to the Ministry of Security of BiH; Saša Magazinović asked two questions about the administration for indirect taxation of BiH; Dušanka Majkić Data Protection and the Agency. The following answers were submitted to today's session: To the additional questions of Agent Damir Arnaut, who was asked in writing at the Šepić session, the answer was submitted by the 19th chairman of the BiH Management Board, to the initiative submitted on 02.02.2018, by the City Council of the City of Sarajevo, to the questions asked in preparation of the 57th session by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs; to the issue of Agent Saša Vajzović, which was asked in writing at the 55th session, the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications submitted the answer to the 57th session by the Ministry of Civil Affairs of BiH, and to the issue of written form to the 56th session, the answer was submitted by the Minister of Finance and the Treasury of BiH; to the question of the representative Nermina Magazinović, who was asked in writing to the 54th meeting by the Council of the Federation, the Council of BiH; the answer to the questions of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of BiH, the Ministers and to the Ministers of the Ministers of the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers of the Lovirnović, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Commissioners, the Commissioners, the Commissioners, the Commissioners, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Ministers and the Ministers, the Commissioners, the Commissioners, the Commissioners, the Commissioners and the Commissioners, the Commissioners, the representative of BiH of BiH. Does anyone regret commenting on the answer? Representative Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23535	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So I've asked a few questions, as you yourself have said, of some I've received an answer, of some I'm not, waiting for them, so it's going to be a unique story, uh, I'm going to comment a little on what I got from the Federation finance minister. Namely, I asked the questions: 1 How much has the total money from the Federation of BiH budget since 2000 been delivered to Kriviji Zavidović? 2. How much was delivered to Tuzla County and the Tuzla County Government during the same period, meaning to companies? 3. How much was transferred to Central Bosnia and Herzegovina during the same time period from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina budget? I have asked these questions because, of course, this is not the time to comment on this subject, but the answers I have asked to the Tuzla and Sarajevo municipalities will come, so I guess I will have the chance to talk about it in another way, and it has offered me that, not the last half of the year, not the last year, the last two, but can say a decade or since this 2000, crucial, therefore, phenomena in Tuzlan County, Zenic-Doboj County, that is my impression, Sarajevo County is constantly social tensions between, unfortunately, damaged workers and authorities, and they are being compensated and bought by sending money from the budget. So, it's amazing, look only from the answer, I hope you've all got them, that's for example. The company Krivaja Zavidovici received almost 12 million marks during this period, and you have, therefore, always wanted to pay for work experience, unpaid salaries, something is the owner of the state, something is not. So it's obvious that this is about a one-produced, me-produced process, which someone well conducts, so people get a little bit, a little bit out on the streets, unfortunately, so these people are damaged, I don't mind saying it, but with it someone's good at manipulating. Imagine, then, that a whole company could have been built for this as much as it was given "Krivaji“ Zavidović, and you recently had a requisition of these workers. Imagine, let's say, as far as it's been sent, you see here, the Tuzlan government itself, and I'm not happy that I didn't get it for the companies. 20 So it is clear that something is happening, it is clear that something is happening in 2000, it is clear that something is happening in these areas in 2014, there are those political options, or a political option that has the mouth full of the defences of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and which is full of the mouth to defend the consistency of the people. So, in these three counties, there's been some kind of situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that's my impression, but I hope, when I get answers and what I've asked the mayor of Tuzla and Sarajevo, that we'll open this topic up, let's see, so what seems and does. Imagine, for example,... the social movements that started, say, from Tuzla County, that no one was responsible for burning down a state building in that Tuzla, so no procedure has ever been conducted. So something's going on. I asked this question, I didn't mean to go to other counties, it can be combined with other counties, but in this area where about a million people live, it seems to me that behind these numbers,... moves, behind what's going on, something handled. So I repeat again, of the political, only political option, there are no other nationalists there, there are no other parties there, there is only one political option known which, I repeat, is filled with the mouth of the citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is full of mouth, therefore, social rights and the defence of the constitution of the people. This is happening in the largest area in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I will continue, therefore, to investigate this case, so we will have a chance at mine, on my proposal to discuss here in Parliament what is actually happening there and whether there is a stage of some kind that has been present all these years, therefore, and wants to share the responsibility for such a situation with all of us. I'm tired of talking in this House that we're all guilty of something, and you can see where it is... let it be found, someone asks in other places if something like that is happening so we can compare it, to make a state and audit here, what our Office of Audit would say, who and what it is doing in this country, and who is responsible for what it is in this country in the state we've come to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23536	Thank you. Senad Šepić, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23537	Thank you, Chairman. So, the question, I would like to add to the answer to the question I just referred to the Development Bank. So the question was about the amount and the number of loans placed. We received information that from 2014 to 2017 203 loans from own funds, 273,000,000 and 93 loans from the government of the Federation, which is a total of 41,000,000, that is, 315,000. I would ask an addition to this answer, because here we only have such figures, so a list of all these users with an exact amount of funds and on the other hand an effect on employment, so what produced the spending of these funds, what is a concrete effect on the number of employees and on the development of the Federation of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23538	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, commentary. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23539	I thank the chairman. I received a response from the director of the Border Police about the vulnerability of the border between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm asked to ask this question, believe me, I didn't believe in all the allegations that were told to me then, and I left, and on the spot, I became convinced of the debauchery of our borders. So, without any problems, you can go anywhere from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the territory of the Republic of Serbia without any control and you can transfer whatever goods you want. I'm happy with the answer, and I think the Director of the Border Police is very correct, uh, he did it, not beautifying a situation that, as he says through the answer himself, is bad. The response confirmed that there are untegorised roads, but there are roads that can be separated from the regional road and go to the depths of the territory of the Republic of Serbia from Bosnia and Herzegovina and from Serbia to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The answer also says that in other parts of the border towards Serbia, Montenegro and Croatia there is the possibility of smuggling goods, people, narcotics, weapons, both categorised and untegorised roads, which seems to confirm criticism from those who say the Council of Ministers does not allocate enough funds or attention to the protection of our borders. Only now that it seems to be on the pier and the migrant crisis that will affect Bosnia and Herzegovina to a greater or lesser extent will we become aware of the debauchery of our border. I am pleased to hear from the answer that a number of civil servants, or police officers, are detained, disciplined or through criminal proceedings, which means that we cannot generalise how people tend to be the same, and all of these are people who, for their own personal interest, will miss some goods or close their eyes to smuggling. So, it's not like that, the border police are working and they're not all the same, although we all know that there are those who use their jobs in the state service for their own pocket. It is alarming that at the border crossing we are talking about, or in this area, more than 30 officials are missing through the current systematisation. I don't think that's the only reason why our border is ugly, but it is a warning fact for all those in the Council of Ministers who deal with this subject and I think that this kind of relationship between the Director of the Border Police deserves one respect because the man in response said it the way it is, not trying to make it better or to show it differently from who it is. I am, therefore, pleased, but I expect him now and also from the Council of Ministers that, for example, this border area, one step will be passed on to others, because I don't think it would be of any general benefit that I, at each session, ask a question of similar content for other neural areas where we know we have a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23540	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, comment. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23541	I thank Madam Chairman and welcome everyone present in the O.R. I asked the question, but at the same time I asked the minister of justice one and five questions to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. This question I didn't get, here I haven't seen it yet, it may have come, but I haven't got it, but I guess what the answer might be. I just want to remind everyone present in the O.R. that my initiative and my question has proved to be of interest to this country for the convicted and escaped war criminals from Bosnia and Herzegovina to other countries. It is one of the biggest civilian crimes, which is a crime at the Tuzlan Gate, with General Đukić, who then went uninterrupted to Serbia. Bosnia and Herzegovina has shown no interest in the case. I asked that question, only after the questions and initiatives were raised by the Ministry of Justice. But from then to 22 today, we do not have any information on this matter and I have asked the minister of justice the question – how long has it been in Serbia with the process for fugitive General Đukić and convicted of war crimes? Does something by Bosnia and Herzegovina show interest, does it need to intervene because we have no information about it? I suppose that in that sense the answer to this question came, but I pray not only for this answer to come in some reasonable time, but also for these answers, because in the meantime I have asked two more questions to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, that is a total of seven questions. If he hasn't answered these five in these months, I don't know when he'll answer these other two, and there will probably be more questions that, in my deep conviction, are very important and very interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23542	Thank you. Representative Diana Zelenika, commentary. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23543	I thank you, and I warmly welcome you. Perhaps it would be better to call it a comment on no comment and I probably will not be the only one who will say it, and before, colleagues have complained of not answering parliamentary questions. So I will take the opportunity to remind the gentlemen of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of the question that I have already raised on July 3rd or, in order not to be in doubt, in the light of the introduction of the over-sumption on agricultural products, the restriction on imports of seasonal fruit and vegetables when there is sufficient domestic production on the market, the introduction of stricter controls on imports of agricultural products, given that very many imports of non-quality products, i.e. products that cannot pass the European Union market. I didn't think these were such difficult questions that it would take another year to refuse the answer. And I would remind, perhaps, the Deputy or Minister of Human Rights, because she was not there, so in her name the deputy responded partially, or I promised to send a written reply to the issue asked in 16.10.2017, which was related to the basic contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Holy See, as well as the Additional Protocol to this Treaty that same year, which was yet ratified in 2007. So I was interested in how far the implementation of this international Treaty came, i.e. the adoption of implementing contracts, as well as the work of mixed committees to be formed for certain areas of implementation. I also referred to article 1. The additional protocol where it is specified precisely that real estate restitution or nationalised goods are to be assumed without adequate compensation. I asked for full information. Months pass, and I think this is not respect for a person who asks a question, but a home where we all sit, one boast and one irresponsibility towards state institutions. If that weren't the case, there wouldn't be more than a comment, I'd ask for a oral comment. Thank you very much, for the writing, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23544	Thank you. Representative Hanka Vajzović, comment. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23545	Thank you, Chairman. I actually had two questions, one answer I won't comment on from the Ministry of Finance, thank you for the answer, the other is addressed to the Federation Roads, and I guess I'd have a little half an hour to comment. In any case, I asked what about the construction of the road, the Stolac-Neum road or, more specifically, Neum-Stolac because for some reason, everything was moving, and the questions were – why have the works not yet started and when will? After my question, they say it seems to be moving with it after all. The second question – how long has this decade-long project really come about? It could be concluded from the answer, for Bog's sake. The third question – when will the Stolac-Neum road finally be finished? They say in four years, and it's about 20 kilometers. And finally, what is the real problem and who is to blame, I asked – who is obstructing this project as important for the state as well as for the Federation, especially for local communities? They say no one's obstructing, and that's exactly what it's all about. I'll try to take a few parts out of the answer briefly. It is said in response that it is a complex and expensive project, which simply can hardly be true, nor price, and in particular it is not about the complex path that exists, it should be edited. He says they've been doing various activities for years, and they don't say which. That's how many 30 or 40 years these activities are spent, and here, we've never been within 30 miles of them. It is said to be referred to the procedure of approval of the project, approval of credit obligations with international institutions, and the loan is obviously recently approved, somewhere in 2014, so here it is in 2018, something is constantly complicated. The completion of the work on this part, one part of the stock for 13 million, that's the part that needs to change some sort of layer, 13 million, instead of extending the path, because it's been in operation for a long time. It remains unclear why, let's just say, for me as a layman, it didn't start with one lot of Stoc, where it could be an asphalt base, where people would work, why the neglect of that part, and it would go faster. They're talking about the means of expropriation, so you can't believe when one of them says it's been over for a long time, which is logical for so many years, and they say there's some kind of expropriation going on again, and then they say that complete documentation has been prepared over the past five, six kilometers. And he says, in one place, the artists were selected, and then that's the only part of star Neum-Kishevo-Neum-Kiševo-Broćanac and he says, negotiations on the contract are under way and contracts are being prepared for the signing. When we read that, then we can really be encouraged, if that's not how we're gonna worry. And of course, deadlines, promises, three months is, no, now, in any case, the planned period of implementation of this project is four years, four years, and from 2018 to 2020. The former minister, the previous minister from the previous term, said we would have a great time, in 2017 we will be able to reach the sea. And they all swear, it's amazing with this, don't ask the neumljan, or the Stočan, swear to care for the state, for the people, for the only city at sea, for the population in Neum and Stoc, this, of which nothing so many years, and then say it's not an obstruction. I still think it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23546	Thank you. Representative Damir Bećirović, comment. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23547	I would comment after we see that the Federal Finance Minister, Mrs Miličević, is sending some answers, and I would ask her to send an answer to us after we have reached one conclusion as the House, as the House of Representatives, on my proposal, and as far as old foreign savings are concerned, and the deadline has already expired, so I would ask for an emergency to be sent and to be provided with an answer to that question. 24 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23548	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, comment. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23549	I thank the chairman. Here, how did you get to know me I got an answer to my supplemental question from the Board of Directors of BHRT. Namely, my initial question was about media reports, and copies were submitted in addition to the fact that Mrs. Medić Pejka, who was elected director of BHRT in May 2017 as BH Radio 1 on her social media profiles, pointed out the photos on which she wrote "a gift to friends from Kosmet“, which showed pictures of Radovan Karadžić, Draže Mihajlović and Ratko Mladić, as well as a photo that says "if you are silent today about Bratunac, tomorrow does not talk about Srebrenica", I asked the question – was it a member of the Board of Directors of BHRT, Mr. Mufid Memija, who, on the proposal of the SDA College, SDS and HDZ, and in particular Mr. Džaferović's insistence, was appointed as BHRT's Management Board, did he know about these photos of BHRT's votes that she named BH vote? For the first time since the Board of Directors of BHRT, I have received the answer that the appointment has been made in accordance with the law. That wasn't the answer to my question, I asked an additional parliamentary question and I got the same answer, so it's the same, copied one. Well, I guess the purpose of the additional parliamentary question is to get an answer that's different from the one you've expressed dissatisfaction. And I insist that I am not satisfied with this answer, and I will continue to ask questions until I get a concrete answer to my specific question, and I will insist that the College performs its duties and insists that the Board of Directors of BHRT deliver an answer to the question, not that they provide information that has not been asked to the parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23550	Thank you. With this, we exhausted point two, comments on the answers received. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. A request by representative Saša Magazinović to consider before the law on the completion of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, issue: 01 -02-1-494/18, of 14.02.2018. The legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion on 16022018, establishing that the draft law is in line with Article 105 of the Treaty. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH Institutions. I'm opening a debate on the procedure of this law. Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go, counsel. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23552	I thank the chairman. Here, at the very beginning, I would like to thank the legislative and legal sector for helping to bring the document into line with all the rules. It is a lower degree of complexity law in terms of coverage and thus meets the criteria for an emergency procedure to be considered. The essence of the law itself is that those who damage or destroy the national monuments of Bosnia and Herzegovina are adequately punished. I asked and, behold, we were delivered to the benches, the Interim List of National Monuments of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm sorry that this is a document, I think, from two thousand and some, but that's what we found on the website of an institution that should be dealing with the protection of national monuments, but this is also enough that when we talk about protecting national monuments and punishing those who, by their actions, are damaging them, destroying them or in any other way doing what is not allowed, you know what this is about. Here on the list of national monuments of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the majority of major, significant religious objects, mosques, churches, cathedrals. So when you know we're voting for this law, know that it's also about protecting your facilities. In addition, the city's core of a number of cities are on the National Monuments List. When we vote on this Act know that this is how we protect the Lord's Street in Banja Luka and the narrow center, Bashcharshi, who is on that list and everything else, here's a list of 800 monuments. Why is this important to go into emergency procedures? In addition to being a very simple law, it is important to finally resolve this issue because daily we are witnessing, in different ways, the collapse of national monuments and the desecration of the national monuments of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm going to give a banana example, but I don't think it's so banal when it comes to the picturesque display of such legal norms, in England recently, up to a few years ago, they were in a negative sense known hooligans. It couldn't have happened that some of the games went through without a significant incident. Today, when you watch the games of British clubs, you will see that there is no protective fence between theater and terrain, that people sit, watch the game, and no one thinks to enter the field. When you ask the question why is that, then you get the answer that the amendments made to the law that one who commits such a crime immediately gets two years in prison. And now everybody's watching the game, nobody's running in the field. I think by adopting a law like this we'll prevent anyone from throwing a bottle at a mosque, a stone at a church or a cathedral, from damaging the Patizan cemetery just because it doesn't belong ideologically, or any other national monument from the List of Over, I think this list is closed with number 776, and I think today it's over 800. I believe that in this room there are people who would ask themselves some of these monuments on the list wouldn't be on that list. But I believe, too, that in this room there are people who, in any way, are tied to at least one of these monuments and that will be the reason why they will support this Law. I believe that we, as Parliament, are able to do this step and to protect all 800 monuments in this way, and here, if we need to go through the debate, if we adopt an emergency procedure, and even if we develop a debate here in this direction, we can talk about each of them, whether they are in Banja Luka, Bihaća, Bilja, Bosnian Gradišca, Brcko, Bužima, Gradac, Foci, Vakufu, Mostar, Chitluku, Stoca or wherever. That is why it is important to look before we make known what national monuments we want to protect by this Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23553	Thank you. Staša Košarac's representative, the debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23554	Thank you, Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome all my colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would share the dilemmas with my colleagues when it comes to the list of national monuments delivered to Bosnia and Herzegovina for one simple reason, precisely because the Fus note there is somewhere that it was adopted by the Commission in 2000, and it has been almost 17, 18 years, and I think we should have a more up-to-date document that indicates what the commissions have been assessing all these years. For this reason, and respecting the need to protect the national values of all the peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think we should consider the urgency of this procedure in a way that we should leave time to the proposing and competent bodies of the Parliamentary Assembly to obtain an updated list of national monuments of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm not running away from having to say that when it comes to national monuments that each of us has ambition precisely that such a phenomenon, a destructive phenomenon, the appearance of hooliganism in this country is sanctioned in the strictest way and I think we all need and we can agree on that. Of course, one more, for this reason, I would like to appeal to the applicant among other things, given that, in the context of the application for the adoption of this Act, I would like to say, inadequate entity sanctioning policies, I would suggest that, on the basis of this debate and this relationship to the urgency of the procedure, to get enough time for communication and with the entity authorities to try to find the most meaningful ways of a solution, and not to promote solutions that are only at the level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, without seeking discussion, discussion and dialogue with the entity authorities in order to treat it in one uniform way, and the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, are treated in the best possible way, or the Criminal Law of the Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23555	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23556	So I wasn't obliged at all to leave the Interim List of National Monuments and this Law could go without it. I asked him to print himself clean to gain insight into what this Law is all about. I am also sorry that there is no document that is more up-to-date at the national monuments' station, but I believe that this document is also more than enough to create a picture in the head of those who will vote, or will not vote, on what the law refers to. In the light of the law, an explanation has been given, which is why it goes to the BiH Criminal Law. We have already spoken to aneks vi of the opšti Framework Agreement for Peace that the establishment of a Commission to preserve the national monuments of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been envisaged, and so far there have been adequate sanctions in the Criminal Law of BiH that have not been so rigorous. I accept that we're talking about whether this is too strict, I don't think it is. If some people hadn't pulled my hand brake, I might have written this even more rigorously, but it is what it is. I accept that we are talking, and we can talk about the impeccability of the List through the parliamentary question of the institution that holds this List on its website, but I don't think it's one of the essential issues. I think if there's a good intention, we can adopt this law, this one. If there's any intention of getting through the procedural corridors of this Law and losing it somewhere, I'm not behind it, and in that sense I can't support the initiatives in that direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23557	Thank you very much. The word has the chairman of the House, Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23558	Thank you very much. Well, here, I fully understand, although the debate on the essence of the law is not open, I've actually just reported in this procedure. I think that in some way, there's no such thing, I think, in this room and beyond who wouldn't condemn any attack, either on national monuments, or on a cemetery, or on an identity, etc. Many things should be sanctioned in some way and arranged in this Bosnia and Herzegovina, perhaps in another way, but I think that, just before, colleague Staša Košarac was just talking about the procedure, and I also think that this issue is not just so simple if we want to do so, because we must not ignore the fact of the jurisdiction of the courts. When we talk here about national monuments, look, will the BiH Court of Justice, for example, now conduct a procedure for attacking a church in a village? So, what I'm saying is, this situation really needs to be legal, I mean, first of all, from the point of view of real security, so I'd just like to suggest to an esteemed colleague that we don't go with an emergency procedure. I would suggest one conclusion, since this is a serious issue and I will support it in any case in terms of essence, but to get the opinion of the competent entity ministries, of course, of course the BiH Ministry of Justice and this, I say, team, will probably do so, which is also in charge of monitoring the Penal Code, for the implementation of, in fact, criminal legislation at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, here, in that sense, I hope that all of us will exist, but I think we should leave the regular procedure, so let's see how and how it works because this isn't as simple as it says. This is, in the sense of a crime, and there is also what relates to jurisdiction and the conduct of courts, so let's not let us MPs, in some way with an age of intent, put ourselves in a position to do something that isn't good, that we didn't succeed. And, here, while it is already, and I'm going to put some comment on this list that we've got, I've looked closely, in fact, so whether it's final or not, when it's adopted and so on, here under point 347 says – Livno, mali Gubar, it's not Guber, it's just so much, it's stuck to me because I know what a branch church is, and yet it doesn't stand such a mistake, it just makes a stenogram and this list that we got. Thank you very much. Representative Nikola Lovrinovič, correction of the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23559	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I refer to you and Mr. Magazinović, as the promoter of this material, or point. I, too, am inclined to what you said, Mr. Košarac and You, to return this to a regular procedure, or remain in a regular procedure. So, it's okay that Mr. Magazinović suggested this, namely it's not just what you were talking about court jurisdiction and, I don't know, tomorrow some kind of criminal procedure, but it's about how you get to the status of a national monument. So I know some of this stuff and let's say that a lot of things, for example. in Travnik, where I come from, the question of how this status of a national monument was ever obtained, you introduce criminal measures which, according to you, are not rigorous, by 28 some, you give to some courts, and then you will be in a position to actually protect something else through this Law, not national monuments, but to protect religious objects, I don't know, international relations and anything else. It may be this place in some other law, but I'm not going into it, so I'm going to support it fit in the procedure because, npt. I will also refer to some of the allegations here in the List that we received, although colleague Magazinović said that this was not his intention, for example. The first inaccuracy when it comes to Travnik you have the guidance of the medieval fortress, you have the Old Town down there, and it's the same facility, then you have the quote of Jesus ’ gymnastics, and it's about the Great Archdiocese gymnastics in Travnik. So then you have, then, down the ancient basilica and the Basilica of Turba in the same place, it's about the same facility, it's the remains of the archaeological lateantic or early Christian basilica in Turbet. So, therefore, it is not relevant this List, I agree, it is not relevant at all for this topic today, but it is important that we open this story at some other places and levels, to see how this status of a national monument is at all. You believe that there are, therefore, objects here and, I don't enter into anything individually, which may not deserve to be on this list, and then using this Law, it can turn it into something else entirely, if we introduce these crimes. Well, here, I suggest we also support this conclusion, of course, and stay in the regular procedure, so let's see what we get from these correspondences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23560	Thank you. Representative, colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23561	Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers. I think that this one very short and very clear change achieves a lot in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think it can have an important impact on the stabilisation of all opportunities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We still have the crime of damaging other people's things today, and that's not the problem. Here is the property of protection of the national monument, the List, neither was it final in 2000 nor is it final today, nor will it be final, neither I know when. It represents a blanket compared to the norm prescribed or which, if we adopt this Law, will be prescribed by amendments to the Criminal Law. I think we need this law, that it's useful and that we need to accept the emergency procedure and the law itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23562	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. We should now declare the urgency of the procedure of this Law. Please state whether or not the proposal for a law supplementing BiH's criminal law is being considered by an urgent legislative procedure? Of the 37 present – 15 for, 12 against, abstentions 10. There is a general majority, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. We don't have colleagues, we can't go to the second round, we don't agree so we're postponing this statement for the next session. Moving to point four, 29 Ad. 4. A request by MPs: Mirsad Mešić, Saša Magazinović and Denis Bećirović to discuss the draft law amending us of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Law under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, No. 01-02-1-507/18, of 15.02.2018. The legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion on 16022018, establishing that the draft law is in line with Article 105 of the Treaty. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, and that the bill follows the text of the BiH Election Law, which was adopted before the entry into force of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in BiH Institutions. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23564	I thank the chairman. Unlike the previous Law, we talked informally and I think everyone understands what this is all about. So, we, this House, and the House of Peoples, have increased the internal censorship from earlier 5% to 10% for local elections, 20% for general. A large number of people in the public absolutely do not have the fact that there is this internal censorship at all and do not know that the fact that some candidates will have more votes than the other does not necessarily mean that they can move on the list. I think there was one perhaps more precise analysis when this Law was amended and that Parliament, or those who supported excessively from inside its censorship from 5% to 20% and practically closed the list that way. An increase in censorship from 5 to 10% could be seen by those who compared it and eventually voted that the political party running the list wants in a certain way to influence who will be the people elected to the representative bodies. However, it is also possible for voters' preferential votes to also draw up a list in a way that determines those who will enter parliament. And that's some reconciliation between political parties, the will of political parties and the will of voters. This variant we currently have with 20% is, according to the analyses we've been doing, exclusive or almost, excluding the will of political parties. And preferential voices, especially at lower levels, in this case in cantons, are much less worth it, or they can't say, but they're hardly worth it because the situation is that this internal threshold of 20% is mainly crossed by list holders and possibly in the incident situations even by someone who doesn't affect the composition of the legislative bodies. There are several situations that really show why this threshold should be reduced. In the 313, I will not speak to candidates and political parties, unlike the previous elections if, if it were a 5% threshold, that 20% of the candidates with 8,700 votes would not enter parliament would enter the 3,400. In election only 201 candidates with 1,300 votes would enter, and the one with 5,700 would not. One of the most recent examples is election unit 203, where the candidate with 11,000 votes would remain outside parliament, and in parliament he would be a 5,000-seat candidate. I think, therefore, that it is an urgent matter, since we are covered by different proposals of the Electoral Law, and I think that one question at a time we should solve, and we would also make it easier for these political parties, to be fully open, to form electoral lists, because today with such an electoral threshold of people knowing that they can't be chosen more difficult to decide and to accept the candidacy. I think it's clear both urgency and essence, and I hope this law has support. And there were those who say, let's put this to zero. Here, all right, let's go, but we know that 30 political parties want to have a certain effect on voter formation and that's not realistic. And so we don't go with unrealistic suggestions, this is something that I guess most people are acceptable, and I think it might be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23565	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23566	Here, perhaps in the last sentence, something was said by colleague Magazinović, one of the promoters. So, I think the essence of this debate, in my opinion, is okay, with what if we already want to be extremely open, honest, we're talking about giving everyone the same chance, and we're a political project that basically wants to build relations in the next period in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I suggest this goes into regular procedure and we cancel this whole threshold. So we don't have to play here, 20% 10, 5, etc., let's end it completely. The political parties itself, by affecting the schedule on the candidate lists, have one kind of opportunity more than others, so I think that's quite enough. So my proposal is, and the independent bloc's proposal is that this censorship is completely abolished, that it be 0%, that this goes into regular procedure and that through regular procedure, given that fellow Magazinović has mentioned some numbers somewhere, you have the complete illogicality that this one has entered with this many votes, and this one is not, therefore, that the subject of the choice method and the way in which the compensatory mandates are defined is also changed in some way. And now you have a situation where people with 1,000 or 2,000 votes sit in Parliament, that some others with 15,000 don't sit. So, and it opens up another kind of, as it is called, needs and discussions to advance that too because I think we can also make a society of better and equal opportunities, and a better and fairer society in Bosnia and Herzegovina. When we talk about wanting to give people that right, then I think we should really do it in a way that we don't have any kind of restraint, except to enable people in Bosnia and Herzegovina to believe in their representatives. I, what I want to say for the end, today, under one of these points of the agenda will be this issue about electronic voting and how to count votes through scanners, or a different way of ensuring transparency and a fair electoral process. I personally think that the focus we all need in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be that when we talk about amendments to the Election Law, because if we want to see changes, the fundamental changes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we really need to encourage people to the extent that we tell them that no one here, from these institutions or any other, will cheat on them, that these people will provide these equal chances, equal opportunities, equal access, and that what the will of ordinary man will really be and will at the end, or that it will actually be the result that will be recognised in these benches from the lowest municipal level, to this level here in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So, for a principle like this, I am, but I suggest that this goes into a regular procedure and we end this whole censorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23567	Thank you. Advocacy Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23568	The Honorable Chairman. I respect the views of previous colleagues, but I must say one position that is quite clear. So we haven't had experience following the application of amendments to this Law in the General Elections, that's one question. Secondly, I have absolute analysis for the selection of direct, therefore, for the allocation of direct mandates to the Parliamentary House of Representatives and of 30 direct mandates, if the existing Law only applies three would not pass into the Parlametary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. So everyone else has more than 20%. Furthermore, for the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, I am talking, therefore, about direct mandates, only four MPs would not pass if the existing law were applied, of 20%, and five or six, depending on how it is seen because of the national representation, the representatives of the constituent peoples in the Federation Parliament's House of Representatives. So, I respect the esteemed colleague Saša Magazinović, but this is an eclectic example, but we cannot, uh, change the law to satisfy a smaller number. It may be less significant, or less percentage, in that sense represented in the cantonal congregations. And another question, this change in this percentage of preferential votes makes sense if, within one political entity, a single candidate is voted, that the threshold is 10 or 5% lower, in which case we have had a more quite certain situation of fair and fair elections. So this is a question of further motivation of internal tensions within political parties, a reduction of this censorship, rather than a battle for the votes of each individual individually on the list. So that's mine, and I respect these attitudes, but I think that, that's my opinion when it comes to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23569	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23570	Dear chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests. Well, it's hard here to separate the debate from the procedure, not to touch the essence, and that's why I respect the way that my colleagues talk. But we are in office for the fourth year and ends the mandate, every change of election laws five months before the election, and even technological improvements will leave the citizens with exactly the opposite effect of what their colleagues expect. Where were we for four years? Did we not know about these lacks of electoral laws? I respect, therefore, all the initiatives that come, I'm afraid we're talking about this without anything happening. And that's why I have, so I suggest one party so it doesn't go, so the other one doesn't go, so the third round doesn't go, which means we're aware of that challenge, too, what public opinion will think of us. For four years we have been in office, well paid, and we end the amendments to the electoral legislation three or four months before the elections. I'm sorry, I'm not serious. Here, I just wanted to warn you about that part, not getting into the essence of the need, and even these technological innovations we could end up in the first year of office, provide financial resources,...the electoral commission that it can apply. Who can also make these innovations of electoral legislation say that it is central..., therefore, we will open the doubt needlessly, here is just that thought, and let the next assembly of Parliament think about the arrangement of these relations Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23571	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23572	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Well, here's a few sentences to maybe add to what Mr. Šepić was talking about. The priority of the election cycle is the regularity of the election, and if we do it through the Electoral Law to make certain changes more regular then we will achieve the task, all of this later can. Why am I saying this? For the simple reason that we must first, and this is the move or this proposal related to the electronic vote already opens that possibility, is that we technically resolve the electoral process in a way that is chosen by voters, and not by the counters, I mean that we often said... and all after that, we can talk about what this law is about, which is the subject of Mr. Magazinović, or Mr. Prodanović's very interesting initiative, which, here, I say, can continue this legislative project to put into some regular procedure, so let's talk about these innovations. But, believe me, we'll do the most when the election process is at stake if we do this regularity, uh, raise it to a higher level and that electronic vote gives some hope that this process can be regulated and I would first end this story, first see if it actually has support here in Parliament, and then we can do these other technical things later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23573	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23574	I thank the chairman. Here, I am listening to Mr. Šepić and Mr. Sokolović now with claims that their proposal for a law introduces an electronic vote and that is, therefore, absolutely false, that is not true. And, look, I'm asking you, if your bill is passed, will we have an electronic vote in October's election? I'm telling you we won't because your bill doesn't introduce it at all. And we're listening from the Constitutional Legal Commission last week, where the third member of your club, Mr Ahmetović, said that your bill introduces an electronic vote, and I'm telling you again – that's not true. Your bill only has one, half sentence
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23575	I apologize, counselor, you know that we are at an emergency hearing and don't let us talk about the essentials and the electronic law, it's absolutely not even a matter of this amendment to the law, so please stick to the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23576	Chairman, I'm in business now. So, the Rules of Procedure clearly say, I ask that this, your two colleagues know this provision of the Rules of Procedure, that if the MP wants to correct the wrong assumption, that he can get a word when he asks. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23577	Well, you got your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23578	And then let me finish. We've got the wrong quote, I'm correcting it. Mr. Sokolović and Mr. Šepić are the ones who entered the essence. When they entered the essence, they said the wrong assumption and I'm trying to correct it. Talk to the secretary, you know I'm right.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23579	I wouldn't consult with anyone, I'm Mr. Arnaut running a session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23580	No one.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23581	Thank you. Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote, but please, all MPs, follow the Rules of Procedure and the agenda. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23582	Of course the chairman. So, I invite my colleague Arnaut to take a stenogram of his presentation at the Constitutional Commission session when we first mentioned this. What he replicated to his colleague Džaferović when we spoke about what our proposal really meant. It opens the possibility of an electronic vote in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a technical way. What this will look like afterwards are things that can be defined by the Central Election Commission and can define other members, other amendments, or other members of the Law. One way is what we have in the parliamentary procedure, which is likely to be the subject of the debate that both SDP colleagues and some other parties have prepared, but what essentially in Bosnia and Herzegovina right now we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina can only vote through ballots. Our amendment of the law opens up the possibility of doing it electronically, I don't know what else a fellow Arnaut can be there, that, vague.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23583	Please, counselor, it's not on the agenda of this session. Representative Hazim Rančić, hearing. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23584	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23585	And the discussion of the procedure, I repeat again.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23586	So there's no dilemma about what I'm going to say in advance, if I'm going to support the procedure and the law, we're going to see how we vote. However, they are simply not accurate about the reasons for the law being passed and in the oral debate, and they are also written in the light of the Law as a reason for the adoption of this Law. In that part, a respected colleague, Prodanović, said in a good part, and at some point when we were working on the Electoral Law and we were deciding on a proposal for a level of censorship we had an analysis of the Central Election Commission, there was a huge number of us there, and this analysis from the CEC confirmed that a huge number of council members in all municipal and city councils were already passing on the basis of censorships of more than 10%. A huge number, meaning more MPs in cantonal, entity, Brčko Distrik and the state parliament pass on the number of votes higher than the 20% censorship. Yes, there are exceptions that do not pass, there are cases like this, examples of which were spoken by fellow promoters, Magazinović, but they are not standard, rule or majority. So, most of us are as informed by the Central Election Commission. So, the situation in practice is different, the law we haven't even checked and we're making conclusions, but no matter what, so that someone doesn't tell a different story I said, because I'm making the opposite arguments, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to say my position, I'm going to support the procedure and the law. We are fighting for fair and fair elections, the simplest – that elections reflect the will of citizens. That anyone who goes from council to presidency...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23587	Please stick to the debate on the urgency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23588	Thank you. That anyone who passes should be the will of the citizens, not the will of any party president, or the party authorities, or the bearer of the list. It is not the same position in any page when someone gets that it is the bearer of the list, that it has media performances, that it has billboards, that it has access to election meetings, that it speaks to them, that it is operated by party machinery and that votes are thus collected. Only if in an ideal sense would we all be in the same level of starting from council to the Presidency of the State could we talk about fair and fair elections. As soon as someone has a seal, and the presidents all know it, starting with the branches, and to the highest level, there is a favoring of certain persons and unfortunately in practice, and I am also drawing conclusions from a huge number of procedures for the implementation of the responsibility of members of the electoral committees, which usually ends with small fines, parties, election committees, municipal election commissions dictate election processes. Municipal election commissions that...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23589	I warn you once again, MP, that you will follow the debate on the urgency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23590	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So I want the elections to be fair and fair and reflect the will of the citizens, not through the correspondence of votes. I'll support the procedure and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23591	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go, counsel. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23592	I apologize to the chairman, but I'd like to have a little laugh at my colleagues' previous exposure. Yes, it's acceptable...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23593	If it wasn't sad, it might be funny.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23594	Yeah, that's not sad. So, as we've driven, we're going to end the parties, but we're going to bring down the one-party system because we don't need the parties in the elections. Somehow we do the Law all to be against what the parties do, they're participants in the election process. So, I'll just say that, not that I'm not going to support a hasty procedure, but I'm not going to support any amendments to the electoral law that does not contain changes to the laws relating to the Constitutional Court's decisions. So, these technical repairs, as some have called them, can also be directed to the Central Election Commission so that it evenly tries to suggest something seriously, as Mr Špirić said, because dealing with this at a time when we are ahead of the elections is really unnecessary unless, perhaps, if the Central Election Commission offers us an offer, so colleagues may take advantage of it. Because a few questions are being asked here, so whether or not some colleagues who have been taking advantage of the big parties here have gone through them to enter the Parliamentary Assembly, so there are preferences and what the provision says, means they have abused themselves and some of them have even said that they...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23595	Please, counselor, we're talking about urgency. When we open a debate about the Pre-Dog of the Law, then you're talking about election law.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23596	What would a colleague say, thank you. All right, I'm stopping the discussion, so I won't. It is possible to go to the elections on your own, so you don't have to be within some big party, let this be back to you to the Central Election Commission or at least to the regular procedure, and essentially, I won't support any of this, not one solution in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23597	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here's to the steps.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23598	I want to briefly replicate to my colleagues Prodanović and Rančić in a way that makes arguments that are important to, as an argument for an emergency procedure. A kolega of Prodanović, it seems to me that he has agreed to be the bearer of the list and his argument is about to look that way. Not true, it is not true that the election results for the Republika Srpska National Assembly are such that they all cross 20%. Election unit 303 Banja Luka, carrier Igor Radojičić, the only one who crossed 20% of anyone else did, which would... 36
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23599	I warn you, MP, correct the wrong assumption regarding correcting the wrong quote. We're discussing the urgency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23600	Yeah, a colleague's that...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23601	I know you understand that very well. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23602	My colleague listed it as an argument against an emergency procedure, and I'm just trying to correct the wrong assumption. So my quote is the following, election unit 303 Igor rado jicic crossed 20%, no one else did. According to you, co-worker Prodanović, Lihović Gordana, with 3,400 votes, would enter the National Assembly, not Amidžić Srđan with 8,700, nor Vuković Čedo with 5,700. Comrade Rančić, you're right that most people cross 10% in the cantonal assembly, which is what I say, so I agree with you, but the point is that they don't cross 20%. In the Canton Assembly where you come from, candidate Zukić with 11.067 votes under this law would not enter the assembly even though at the threshold of 10%... from 20th he came to the sixth place and the candidate would enter with 5,000 votes instead of him with more than twice as many. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, we agree, the candidates don't cross 10, the candidates go 10%, but they don't cross 20. As for this zero, so there's no threshold at all, I sign it and I support it, but I think this proposal is the best way not to make a change at all, but to stay 20% because obviously we don't have a majority for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23603	Thank you. Before I give my word to the following, I warn you of respecting the agenda, the article 77 which says – a representative or other participant can only talk about the issue being discussed in accordance with the established agenda. If the President warns him of the agenda, if he does not follow the agenda afterwards, the President of the House shall deny him the right to speak. I did not do it for you and for the House, but you forced me to do it, and I am forced to do it. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23604	I thank the chairman. This is really necessary, given that you are constantly denying the right to correct the wrong allegation. Before the article you quoted, there is a Article 76(2) that says - the MP may request a word to correct, and now the key part, in his opinion, and not in your opinion, is to blame a statement that may be the cause of the misunderstanding or which is seeking an explanation. So every time someone says something about this, this speaker or here, and some other MP, in his or her opinion, thinks it requires an explanation or could be the reason for the misunderstanding, has the right to get the word for two minutes no matter what is on the agenda. So these are two completely separate topics. And this has never happened before, but you are constantly introducing this practice and I am now contesting this practice and 37 ask that my warning of a violation of yours, on your part of Article 76(2) enter the minutes of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23605	Now, I find that you've broken the rules of business, you can laugh all you want, my correction and my warning never applies to the correction of the wrong quote, I haven't denied it to anyone, but I warn everyone that, first of all, through the debate, this is about the agenda, we observe the agenda. I warned two, three MPs here who, after warning, continued to do the same, and then, through the corrections of the wrong quote, things happen again where they wander away, where this provision is being misused. So, I've never abused, nor will I abuse a business provision that applies to the correction of the wrong assumption, because it should be referred to what it refers to and the wrong indication of what it refers to. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23606	I am really asking you to explain to me how I can violate the rules of procedure when I have called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have submitted to the complaint no longer than 3 minutes and identified a clear provision of the Rules of Procedure which I consider to have been violated. So, what did I break the Rules of Procedure? You are now introducing another new practice, that no business intervention can be held here, and then this Parliament is indeed headed in one direction that it has never gone in. And I'm now asking that this business intervention be included in the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23607	I never said, but I'm saying, you're misusing business regulations in context because you're misreading my grades and my corrections. In that sense, you have an article 76. – the representative is obliged to specify the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which have been injured, after which the President of the House will decide on the justification of the objection in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think at least you have a clear Rules of Procedure here. Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23608	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Magazinović did not correct any of my guilty allegations in his correction. My discussion was based on the facts obtained by the Central Election Commission when working in the Working Group on making amendments and additions to the Election Law, which ten of our colleagues and from one and another home had hand in hand during work in the working group. Two, if he doesn't believe it, and he has more colleagues to have that data, and they are also being called by a colleague of Prodanović, he can ask for those data from the Central Election Commission. Under three, and I can help him if he wants, because I have that material at the club. Under four, our difference in seeing this Law, this procedure is that a respected colleague on a micro plan and finding exceptions bases the proposal and explains the Law, and I am trying to fully consider the situation throughout the space, in all parliaments and draw conclusions from it. No matter what, I will support both the procedure and the law, and I think that's enough colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23609	Thank you. Advocacy Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23610	I want to say to my esteemed colleague Magazinović that no argument has been made that would deny my allegations. I have here data from all direct mandates for every level of government for general elections. So I also speak for the National Assembly, a total of four non-distributed, four mandates that had less than 20% of the votes won. It's unnecessary to manipulate these names now, so I have if I want to. And secondly, one important thing, much less the possibility of someone carrying the list if he is a member of the General Board in one political party, such as myself, than if he is one of the chairmans of the General Board in another political party in which Mr Magazinović is in. Therefore, it is a complete manipulation of this, even when we talk about political action, I do not use these arguments, nor a way of adopting a law that would be in any sense in my favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23611	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. I suggest we vote on an emergency procedure request. Of the 36 present – for 15, against 12, abstentions 9. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Because in the second round of voting, we can't go because we agree to leave this for the next session. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Declaration by the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the report before the draft law on the amendment of the election law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Salko Sokolović, Senad Šepić and Sadik Ahmetović, issue: 01-02-1-2400/17, of 09.10.2017. The bill was adopted in its first reading at the 54th House session, held on 14 and 15 December 2017, when the Central Election Commission of BiH was asked to submit an opinion on the bill by second reading. The Central Election Commission delivered Opinion 26.01.2018. On 29 January 2018, the Constitutional Commission requested an extension of the time limit for the submission of the report due to the exclusion of the applicant. At its 62nd session, held on 30.01.2018, the College of the House of Representatives approved the extension of the deadline until the next session of the Committee. On 19.02.2018, the Constitutional Commission again requested the extension of the time limit for the submission of the report to 30 days, i.e. until the next meeting of the Committee, after which this item was recast in accordance with Article 120(6) of the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. 39 Representative Senad Šepić izvoljeti.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23613	predsjedavajući, I'd just like to take the opportunity to invite the people of the Central Election Commission to do this as soon as possible. We got one Opinion, I wouldn't be talking about it right now, but it's important that this procedurally this time ends and we get an urgent answer, so we could have it at our first next session without waiting 30 days. So this is an important thing, and this question needs to be solved for us, and then after that, we're going to be able to figure out all of these other, uh, additions, changes, corrections, suggestions, then we can base them on one of these healthy bases. So this is my appeal to the Central Election Commission not to wait 30 days, but to be, therefore, within as short a time as possible so that by the first next session of the House of Representatives we can have that opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23614	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Persons Reporting Corruption in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Aleksandra Pandurević, Borjana Krišto and Mirsad Isaković, Law No: 01-02-1-2687/17, of 15.11.2017. (second reading) The draft law was adopted in the first reading at the 53rd session of the House, held on 25 October, 29 November and 14 December 2017. The relevant Constitutional Commission submitted the Report 19.02.2018. The commission passed the Five Amendment Bill. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the Communication Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-2759/17, of 22.12.2017. (second reading), shortened procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23619	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. So, the principle, the idea and purpose of this law is that the best candidates, the best ones that appear in the procedure that they best be accepted. Now at this point, therefore, you have a case that the list of successful candidates can take whoever he thinks he should, so regardless of the result of the commission's appointment, or the procedure he's conducted. Our approach in this first step is to oblige the head of the institution to have an obligation to receive the best candidate ranked on the list. So, in the next process, we will, therefore, react broaderly in the sense that we propose a way that we should change this technical selection of procedures ourselves, that is, to maintain these competitions, but what is the intensity of this Law is to make it impossible for the executives, whoever they are, so that they have the right to, that after the procedure they carry out, they take from the list of who they think they need, and that they ignore the position, or I would say, the procedure that has been done and the way that the best candidate is ranked, so first on the list. In that sense, I propose that today we reject this negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission and thus continue this parliamentary procedure. These technical things 41 that I've been saying about how we think we need to change when it comes to the formation of commissions, way, transparency, etc., are things that we can fix in the amendment phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23620	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23621	I thank the chairman. First, I would not agree that this law allows the best to be chosen, but rather this Law allows the one given by the Director of the State Service Agency to be chosen, whom he estimates to be the best. We'll best choose, you know, when we have another way of forming a commission, when one man doesn't set up three members of the panel on the list of experts, and then you see that these three members are constantly spinning, we only have three experts in this country, maybe six, and they're changing them. So only when, there's a key, come on, why didn't your colleague propose another way of choosing a commission, put everything in one, in the hands of one man, in the hands of the Director of the State Service Agency. To be sure, number one will always be on the list that he says, don't lie to yourself in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23622	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, rectification of the wrong allegation. You have the word, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23623	Well, I can't believe what my colleague Pandurevic is saying, that we're gonna give it to the director of the State Agency. So, the State Agency, if it is independent of politics, should form a committee that will stab the best. I can't believe that you, I can't believe what you're saying. Therefore, this proposal prevents you from bringing a card now to the state institutions of the SDS and from being admitted, or the SDA that were against, against the Commission, that is the essence of this Law. And what we have proposed when it comes to the departure of young people from Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think this law should be in a set of laws that need to be changed to stop it. Well, you can do whatever you want, I know you have that kind of interest, but let's be realistic, just a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23624	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23625	I am sorry that my esteemed colleague Ahmetović did not consult his current party colleague, Mr Fuad Kasumović. I remember perfectly well when Mr. Fuad Kasumović came out with, there was some competition, came out with a list of people who would be admitted to that contest, in advance. How did he know? Well, it wasn't the Council of Ministers who set it up, it was set up by the State Service Agency. It's the director who's setting up her bags. You put all of this into a man's hands, change the way you choose a commission, and that's the right way, and maybe you're close to the director now, I don't know, so it suits you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23626	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, you have the word, the correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23627	Well, I understand what Aleksandar is talking about, and I think we're on the same track. Now that we're not touching anything, here's when we don't accept these suggestions, it can also happen, Aleksandra. To be honest, I don't even know who the Director of the State Service is right now, especially I can't have someone, what's his name, a relationship. What is the intensity of this Law is really, therefore, that this logic in which you will restore the faith of people to come out, to run, to fight, to learn, to prepare something and to fight to be the best, because that is the only way they will be accepted, that is the idea of our Law. Now at this point, it's not like that. And that it is necessary to ensure that through election commissions and the way it is done greater instruments are ensured, so transparency and sublime, as I would say, eliminating some abuses inside, that's another question that we have said right now, we accept it at the beginning. Here, and in that sense we will react to it amendmentically, but the essence of what needs to be changed in the beginning is simply to return to people, as I said earlier, the faith that they should be good, able to do right, and that it will, in fact, be the way they will be received, and not something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23628	Thank you. Representative Hanka Vajzović, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23629	Thank you, Chairman. Do not slow down the good intentions of my colleague Šepić, I absolutely join what Aleksandra Pandurević said. So, counterpart Šepić practically focused on what's called a list of successful, to prevent manipulations that happen on the list of successful ones, so being selected someone in a place I don't know where instead of someone who was the best, it would be worth doing what Aleksandra was talking about, the problem is commissions and the problem is procedure. On the other hand, it is about the Law that was passed in 2002, in the meantime, it seems to me, 14 amendments and additions. In the meantime, an unofficial consolidated text was made and I think it would be high time or search this Law, so you can also comply with the Unique Rules. And that would be a good requirement, therefore the need, and on the other hand, you have in this, in such unofficial text purified, says this - the integral text is used only for internal use and cannot be called upon at the time of official use. We have such a law that we already have, which would be the way to change, and that it practically brings great troubles and in situations, we know that they are common, when civil servants press charges, when we have such problems from a working-law relationship, they can't do that to such a purified text, this provision says that with that purified, which is placed on the page. So it would be a good question, perhaps the right and director of the ADS – why hasn't it been put in the process of such a refined text, that it should be official? And also that, Bog forbid, these changes, which Aleksandra spoke of, are in motion. I think they're more important than, by the way, 43 would, of course, be that list of successful ones, as she's now called, and then someone gets the right to place the one from the list of successful places 15 instead of the one who was really the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23630	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. And now before we move to item 10 I would like to propose a pooling of discussions on points 10 to 19 of the agenda, including item 19, as it is a 10 report from the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the financial audit of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016, which we have actually postponed at last session of the House. Please make it clear that we are uniting the debate at points 10 to 19, including point 19. Of the 36 present – for 18, against 3, abstentions 15. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that we have united the debate on points 10 through 19, including point 19. Ad. Ten. - Ad. 19. Reports by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Audit of Institutions for 2016 - Directorates for the Co-ordination of BiH Police Authorities - Agency for Identification, Records and Data Exchange of BiH - State Investigation and Protection Agency - BiH Border Police - BiH Ministry of Defence - BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs - BiH's Prosecutors - BiH's Office for indirect resistance to BiH's life - the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH At the 55th session of the House, held on 21 December 2017, 17 and 31 January 2018, we postponed the debate on these points with the conclusion that it is necessary for the meeting to ensure the presence of authorised representatives of these 10 institutions. I would like to remind you that we also adopted the Joint Opinion of the Committee on Finance and the budget with the conclusions contained in it. The Directorate for the Coordination of BiH Police Authorities, with the aim of implementing the conclusions adopted on the 2016 Financial Audit Reports from the 55th session held on 15.02.2018, submitted a list of activities and measures taken by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions for 2016. I'm opening a debate on these agenda points. A colleague, Deputy Šefik Džaferović, debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23632	Honored chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I kind of hesitated to see if anyone else would pick up the phone, so I checked in at the last minute. I think that this united debate today over these few courses of the agenda should pave the way for a new practice in considering audit reports. So, we're not here to create any problem, to take anyone's head off, to criticize anyone, we simply want to see what it is that we need to do in this country to create a system that will work without negative audit reports, and right now to be clear, that is, complete, that is the purpose of this debate. And that's why I'm proposing that the general auditor come here for a pay phone to tell each of these institutions where the problem is. We have people present here in the hall, let them say what is done, that Parliament knows and we will have the right state, we will know what is going on and what is to be done in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the goal is to create a system that will have as little as possible, preferably without negative audit reports at all. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23633	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23634	Honored chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Well, we don't often get to talk about the most important audit reports, and always the worst ones, we talk about at special sessions. If we add that compared to 2015, we have six institutions more with a reserve opinion that is why we should imagine where all this is going and what this Parliamentary Assembly as a very good associate with the audit can fix that the situation is starting to change. There's nothing here to say especially in front of the institutions, they've already said everything they had to say in the auditor's report and that's what the review has shown. So, the basic thing is that the 2016 reserve opinion received 10 institutions a year, meaning four in 2015. The most important thing is that these 10 institutions, they have a budget of 610 million marks, and last time we heard, in the last session, that those who had a positive opinion were only 32, this is an incomparable amount with small budgets and there is no problem with public procurement as one of the key problems. Of these 610 million, it should be noted that 2016 is the first year when the revision examines audit reports on the basis, it gives an opinion on financial reports, but at the same time gives an opinion on compliance. We have seen that institutions have learned quite well how to work how to display data, part of it is some small financial discipline, repairing that discipline, but it is more so that many of the institutions have found very high-quality people who are now working on these jobs and know how properly to book it. But what shows a troubled, very problematic relationship is, that's, that's, that's an opinion on coherence. What does the opinion on compliance mean? This means whether the institution operates in accordance with the laws and other regulations that treat its work for which it is competent. That's what's wrong with us. So, why is it bad? Of the 10 institutions for seven, it has been found that the reports are true and fair, it is said of financial reports, of the 10 institutions only one has no objections to the revision of compliance with laws and regulations, only one. So, they all work past the law and beyond the rules that have been laid down for these institutions. Out of 10, only one has no public procurement problem, means disrespect for the procedure. Almost none, I just think the prosecution is the only institution that hasn't gotten attention. The key is not two things and I think 45 if Parliament would like to deal with all these problems that are happening with the poor grades of institutions on their work, it should deal with two things. The first is to carry out the recommendations of the audit. I'll tell you a few things only, that the recommendation of the revision, is like this – in progress, means for all 10 institutions, what they did in 2016 is only 35, so, the recommendations of the revision are realised, 54 are ongoing, 71 are not realised, and in 2016 10 institutions received new 207 recommendations. When you add all of that up, that's close to 300. What are these circumstances that will enable 300 audit remarks to be fulfilled in due course? There's no way, and there's no such thing as will, and we've seen it countless times before. So, it's the first thing that audits are prescribed by institutions that don't respect. If that audit report, that their reports are negative, I'm sure the percentage of execution would be higher, this makes institutions seem like a golden environment and needs to get into that golden environment and stay on it. Another key problem, I said, is public procurement. Therefore, only one of the institutions has no recorded problem related to public procurement. What does that problem mean? The value of public procurement at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in the last 3.5 years is 435 million marks. So 15% of the annual budget is spent on public procurement every year. The audit found that the failures related to public procurement in the financial audit were one of the most common reasons for the opinion with the reserve. Therefore, public procurement is almost based on the rules of opinion with a reserve and revision every year repeats, not only in the audit report, but only in obtaining an impact review that says what needs to be done to start changing and states what is the problem in public procurement – weaknesses in planning, lack of adequate market research, delay in launching the procurement process, weakness of tender documentation, lack of... and activities to improve the process. And when you have all this in mind, and you know that about 90% of the procedures are not completed within the deadlines foreseen in the public procurement plans, when you know that the scheduled deadlines, please just this, that the scheduled deadlines break between 30 and 485 days, about 46% of the continuous purchases that are late 40% of the time from what they were scheduled for in the supply plan, then you know where we are and the revision clearly gives both the recommendation and the solution to this problem. We must launch one of the kinds of responsibility, we do not seek political or disciplinary responsibility, and especially not criminal responsibility. For a state of public procurement, someone has to answer. And why is that? Because this is the biggest problem of corruption, wherever public procurement procedures are wrong, the problem of corruption has certainly come to terms and we cannot talk about at all what values it is and how the funds are poured into the pockets of those who in this unscrupulous way run public procurement. So, if Parliament insists that things be brought to an end, it will insist that each of these institutions is particularly responsible for failing to implement the recommendations of the revision and for failing to comply with the public procurement arrangements. I think we have a lot of work to do on this plan and each of the MPs can contribute. This discussion will show if we're ready for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23635	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correcting the wrong allegations, these are technical matters, so this is your first correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23636	I thank the chairman. 46 I must correct the wrong assumption that the situation is worse than before. That's not true, just reviewing uses a different methodology and all the years that go by, let's say... There was a single audit they had a positive assessment. [[Disable microphone]] Now that we have a conformity review they have an opinion with the reserve and imagine, for something they're not guilty of, they don't bring in the act, they don't bring in the Border Police, the Police Body Coordination Directorate that act. I have here, we have on the Commission for Finance memos from SIPA Director Mirko Lujić, who wrote to the respected Minister then, Mr Špirić, so Mr. SiPA's director, Mr. Goran Zubac, who wrote again, and begged to bring the rule to Mr. Špirić, and of all things..., the Council of Ministers did not adopt that rule, so now we have five memos from the director of SIPA, I don't know what a man should do, I think that he hangs himself here in front of the building, he wrote five times and asked and asked for a rule to be passed, and here he finally seems to me, right? So that's settled, and so we can't blame them, that's why they get an opinion with the compliance reserve. Also, the remarks that, let's say, in the case of police agencies refer to public procurement. I would even say something that was stated there as an observation as commendable, so I can't believe that the objection to public procurement, let's just say, in the Border Police, is that the condition for the purchase of a vehicle is to spend less than five liters of fuel. So do we know how far their cars go, how much the limit is, and I guess it's commendable that people are looking to spend as little as possible. Or to indicate as an observation what this trunk is looking for. Well, I mean, I really don't know if auditors have in mind the specificity of these agencies. I guess they put some equipment in those bags, put some S.I.P.A. evidence, drive something. What, he's gonna buy a car without a trunk? So everyone who buys some specialized vehicles must also take care of the needs of the agency for which those vehicles are bought. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23637	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23638	Because of respect for others and for myself, I don't want to comment on those statements I hear, but I have to say something I missed in the first part. The entire, almost entire security sector, the Ministry of Security, the SIPA, the Border Police, the Police Body Coordination Directorate are now on the list of the worst institutions, so the institutions they have, received an opinion...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23639	Representative, please, may I warn you, did I realize that you said you were not replicating anyone? Are you...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23640	Well, I didn't, I don't want to, but the reason is for...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23641	You've reported through the correction of the wrong quote, so I'm just asking you to stick to the business provisions. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23642	So, please don't interrupt me in the future, here are the institutions of the judiciary, here are the institutions of the judiciary and the institutions of security. Two things, I don't care when, but they haven't been solved and we've been repeating it for years. Is that what the institutions had to put pressure on the Council of Ministers, I don't care why they didn't do it. So the payment of the police allowance, why it wasn't settled, so that's... the question of the rules. Why hasn't the rulebook been passed? Who will explain to me now that institutions have not, some have brought, some have not, why there is no synchronisation on that, that they have not asked that question at the Council of Ministers. The second question is even more serious, the Law on the Coordination of Police Authorities and Police Support agencies in Article 24 speaks about the responsibility of the Police Support Agency, which provides...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23643	Please, colleagues, I'm warning you, please refer to the quote you're correcting, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23644	Well, you won't let me talk. I'm asking you to give me...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23645	Well, I have to warn you, I'm bound to warn you about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23646	So I'm talking about these truths that are being told here.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23647	So say, refer to the allegations, you just said you weren't correct, I understood, so I'm warning you one more time, refer to whose quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23648	haći you let me finish this? Will you let me finish?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23649	Please, please, it is not possible to hold a session in these circumstances, let us all follow the Rules of Procedure. When you're in a position to lead, then keep your word, but please respect yourself for this House, you don't have to do it for me. Refer to whose allegations you're correcting.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23650	So this is amazing, you'd have to concentrate a little code, on holding a session, I really don't have a word for this...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23651	Please, I'm warning you, it still doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23652	You have nothing to warn me... 48
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23653	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23654	Thank you. In consultation with the entire club, I'm looking for a half-hour break, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23655	At the request of Agent Damir Arnaut, on behalf of the Club of the SBB, I am giving a half-hour break. We have a quorum, we continue with the session. Here we ask Agent Damir Arnaut to explain the reasons for the request for a break. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23657	On behalf of the club were the necessary consultations for further session work, I think we're done and the session can begin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23658	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23659	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Here, I think this is, that these are the important points of the agenda and we should talk a little bit more closely about what we have as a report, and we got from the Office or Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. When you speak or speak on this subject, then we cannot be opposition, nor must we speak the truth based on these true facts, which we have when it comes to reports, bring certain judgments. I want to remind myself and the MPs here, is it, colleagues and colleagues that in this report we also have a financial report and a report on compliance, and if, or if you have read these reports carefully then we can see that the financial reports of all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina that have been audited by the Revision Office are positive and that is practice. If we go back and find out whether or not we remember when the audits started to make a significant progress in the work of the institutions. But here a couple of institutions have opinions with a reserve and a distraction precisely in the part called coherence, and that's the new part, is that, which we now have in these reports. 49 What is important here, according to me, is mentioned after various facts are presented. Certain institutions, come on condition, are attacking, are in fact asked by the Office for Audit to give a negative opinion. It is interesting to mention the audited institutions – the Ministry of Security and these security agencies that work as part of the overall security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in some ways the Ministry of Security is their superior. Why do we have them here today for consideration? Well, for the simple reason that, uh, someone else hasn't done their job or that they haven't respected the office's recommendations for reviewing for five years. In particular, when it comes to the Ministry of Security and the security agencies, we have an assessment based on an opinion with the reserve specifically because there is no regulated police supplement. In any case, in my opinion, this is not a problem that was to be solved by the Ministry of Security or the Security Agency, they insisted that the problem be resolved. This is the overwhelming problem not of this Council of Ministers, but of the Council of Ministers in Continuity since 2008 when the Law on Salaries and Efforts was adopted in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, when, under this Act, the call for Article 19(3) was to establish a sublaw on the systemisation from which, on a proposal from the Ministry, could, with a decision taken by the Council of Ministers, the Director of a certain Security Agency be able to regulate the position of a police add-on to each of the employees. We know that we had these two agencies, it's the Border Police and the Agency for Investigation and Protection at full capacity, then the Agency for Co-ordination of Police Authorities was formed, so because it wasn't in this, in the Law on Salaries and Compensation in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it was waiting for it to be installed and that we have this problem. It was a continuity here of 10 years. I think we've solved this problem now, but he's created a situation where both the Ministry of Security and the security agencies have received an opinion with the reserve. I think it's fair to recognize it and not condemn those who are not responsible in this process, so that's how it is, and we would certainly have this smaller number of institutions to discuss today. The second thing, which is, that, the systemic problem for all institutions, and even for the ones we're talking about today, is this problem of public procurement. On the parliamentary issue here today, I said that at the last session, we had one piece of information on the timing of the procurement procedure. It simply seems to me that no one has talked about it, and here we are today ready to criticise all the institutions in this direction that they have received these assessments because of their failures when it comes to the public procurement system. I think it is also one of the problems that needs to be identified in some way by the Council of Ministers, because this process should be monitored, set up a system and monitoring and reporting, and here I said, try to consider also the possibility of increasing responsibility and establishing a system of sanctioning those who have not responded in the public procurement process. It has been established, here I am not going individually about these institutions, that in most cases these public procurements are beginning to be realised very late, so because it is a delay, and the need to function, certain contracts are being made, annexes with the existing supplier, it is all against the law, and then this space is being opened, eg, possible corrupt methods, crime, etc. Therefore, not taking responsibility from those who in the public procurement process have, and in the sense that they form commissions, carry out these public procurements, this system of monitoring, reporting, or warnings by the authorities, which in this case, in my opinion, the Council of Ministers is lacking, and in many cases, in these failures, many cases have also been warned through its reports by not only the institutions, but has asked us here in Parliament to task the Council of Ministers to sort of specify these things. When it comes to procurement, it is certain that there are gaps and systemic natures related to the Public Procurement Act itself. And we, too, through the adoption of the Assembly Report based on what we have identified through the analysis of the reports we have received from the Office of Audit, can assign the Council of Ministers to make certain amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act in the next period of 50. So in that sense, for the very part of the vote, I will draw up a certain conclusion and try to, through what has been recognised as a systemic mistake, try to put the Council of Ministers in charge of these things, which are their obligations, those in the next period and sanctioning them. Here, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23660	Thank you. Here, since we've got a few more minutes, here's what we're gonna do, we're gonna try to give another representative, and then we're gonna take a break. Representative Nikola Špirić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23661	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, representatives of institutions present here today for, therefore, this Review Report with the reserve and recommendations. First I will say a few words that people feel here that they are in their Parliament and that the debates should go into tones to look for solutions without looking for the guilty, because the system should evolve, and all those who think they can lead this country by looking at the mirror are wrong. So, absolutely wrong, because still a man would be in the shape of a human-shaped monkey if he had access as a colleague of the SDS. So, I just want to warn, therefore, and a difficult authority that is not able to look ahead, but watch what the authorities in front of it have been doing and who spends the entire mandate criminalizing people's various anonymouss,..., etc. I will not stick to that logic and today I will talk about the audit reports and ask my colleagues to understand this debate with the best desire to make evolution. I must say that the review has done its report professionally and today is not a debate with the revision, but to see what this council of the Parliamentary Assembly can do to improve the situation in front of us. It is impossible to return time from 20 years ago and it is impossible to say someone was wrong in the last term, and that is why we are also sinful today, not a debate on the audit report. And, here, I think that the auditors in their report expressed two opinions, an opinion relating to the accounting accuracy of financial reports and an opinion on the compliance of business with the regulations, and that was the only thing they could do. But we, what Parliament has done badly, are the practice so far, which has been good, that where the opinion with the reserve and the recommendations is first the Finance and Budget Commission carries out a public hearing, so that they see that there is no need to repeat the debate here. I don't know why we haven't done it now, what we're in such a hurry and why we don't want to read the report, and we want to discuss it. And that, I don't know, would be whether, therefore, a public hearing if there were hearings about the report, so I don't have, I don't have that report. But what we need to see here in particular now is why it is so, what is not good, that almost all agencies, including the Ministry of Security, have opinions, police agencies, opinions with a reserve and recommendations. And now we need to see how, how to... and encourage people to make the next report better. And I see here a special task of this Parliamentary Assembly. We had the conclusions of one home, the conclusions of another home, the conclusions of the Council of Ministers, a million conclusions, but of those conclusions there was no evolution, so now we need to see what we can do, what we can do. So, generally looking at the list of audited institutions is 10 with reserves and recommendations, there are police agencies, the Ministry of Security, judicial institutions, etc. And we see that the Office for, or this Audit Service, it sometimes turns into a political dictionary where it wants to indicate that it has a violation of the law. So we now need to see where the violations of 51 laws occur and what is controversial in the Public Procurement Act. Maybe there's something wrong with the Public Procurement Act. And the task... Parliament is to call people and say – people where the law does not give... you can work. Now, that would be a public hearing system for me. I think there's a problem, objectively there's a problem. But now I'm going to draw attention to what's the task of all of us, and we're not looking at it. Therefore, the revision suggests that the particular problem is that it has never operated a system of joint procurement for police agencies, i.e. police agencies, did not allow the Police Support Agency to carry out its mandate relating to the implementation of the combined procurement. Here is the role of Parliament, why is it not put into office by the Agency which was founded more than 10 years ago? Is there any joint procurement going through that agency? That's where the political assessment goes, that's where crime and corruption tends, and it doesn't have to be. Why don't we cancel this agency if no one needs it? So it's not against Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's against Bosnia and Herzegovina. What's the police support agency for? I'd like to, why the other agencies don't allow it to work, and then we hear from crime agencies, corruption, etc. If a man were maligned, he'd have to ask why this is? Because everyone likes to tender looks there, or not incompatible equipment, and why wouldn't that agency have a joint procurement plan for 2018 to freely state how much equipment, special, specific equipment, how much does it cost and that goes through a joint agency? She's with that goal and form. And that is why I will propose a conclusion here on this – that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly requires the Council of Ministers to ensure the functioning of a common procurement system for police agencies, i.e. that police agencies allow the Agency for Police Support to carry out its mandate concerning the implementation of united procurements. I think it'll be easier for all the police agencies when they do it, because it won't be unnecessary once they're sued, they won't deal with it, they'll do operational work, not shopping and selling. The second thing I want to suggest is, in this expressed opinion with the reserve and with the recommendations is first the Ministry of Security and here it was not directly meant to say that the violation of the Public Procurement Act, although when we read the reasoning of the revision it is a negative opinion, it is not... it is not... spoken, respected and that the revision wants to evolve the system, to indicate, etc. But we have here, let's say, when it comes to the Ministry of Security, so the unrealised recommendations of 2015, which is why I'm talking about evolution, it's not a proposal for sublegal acts to resolve the rights to a police supplement, there are no conditions for the establishment and development of a system of financial management and control, there are no closures of activities related to the amendment of the Internal Organization Regulation in the section relating to internal audit, there are no completed activities related to the establishment of an organisational structure according to already existing decisions of the Council of Ministers, no policies and plans on human resources management have been adopted, are not, are not, are not, are not and are not, have not yet not listed. The question arises – why is that? But that I would not be here, in order not to be lenient about what is not, and it should be, here is indicated, so I quote the Office for Audit, where it is said that, in order not to make an arbitrary statement, the violation of the Law on Public Procurement, so that the ICT infrastructure upgrade of the Operational and Communication Centre 122 – public procurement procedure, says the revision, equipment and means in the form of rights, within the framework of the Project of the establishment of the Operational and Communication Centre of BiH 112, was implemented through the negotiation procedure without the publication of the notice, an explanation that the protection of the exclusive rights of the former supplier of the Konkor kord system there is no option for the choice of an alternative supplier and that the conditions laid down in Article 21(2) of the Public Procurement Act are met accordingly. And here the revision continues to say – the value of the contract concluded is 1,245.357 KM with VAT, we see in the technical specification that about 43% of the value of the contract is related to the delivery of different equipment, phones, computers, laptop, tablets, printers, video surveillance, etc., 38 to the provision of service services, delivery, installation, implementation, integration, project management, etc. and 19% only on applicative software. And here the review rightly asks why the tender wasn't broken to the lotes, so what's about the system, the continuation of software... and that 52 here we have competition because there would be savings. Sometimes it can be justified, here to put myself in the role of the ministry, with no time left to waste on time, to do so, etc., but here it rightly indicates a violation of the law. Now, even if I don't keep listing these negativitys that really need to be corrected, I suggest again, because it's hard to ask that the institutions in charge of each other to read the audit reports, especially if the reports are not highlighted in a negative opinion. But since no one wants to deal with it except in anonymouss, this left-hand side has covered the right with anonymous reports, so that we don't deal with the position of the current government, so I can understand that it's part of the policy, but I think an audit report with a reserve and a distraction of public procurement gaps should be forwarded to the Office for the Review of Appeals, which is required to file criminal charges for responsible persons in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in cases of violations of the Public Procurement Act, so for all. And if any luck that service would do it, she would, she's legally bound to do it. And that's why we want to strengthen this conclusion, call the Service to where there is, if there are violations of the law that she's doing her part of the job, if we're going with misapplications to institutions, then we're spending back on people's budget money. So without a personal sanction no one will say I should have an absolutely positive audit report. We also have a police body coordination agency and I think this From Parliament's point of view, he deserves attention. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I am asking you for just one moment, where it is said, to quote the revision again – if you take a closer look at point 6 of the audit report, we show serious concerns, on the one hand, concerns about the professional and responsible work of the list committees and management that accepts such a pop, and on the other hand, even more serious concerns about the fact that the Agency is equipped with weapons and police equipment, means of communication, etc., and we are not sure that this equipment, including those that are being spent in accounting policies, is indeed in the Agency. can find somewhere on the black market. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So we need to determine exactly the real and accounting state. If we go over this, it's gonna happen that the Agency is just going to be clapping political grades, people are going to make it up. So it has to be an accurate report whether the actual and accounting situation is harmonised, whether it's a data entry error or some other kind of error that can be shown, but it wouldn't be good to have something that was equipment and what was spent showing up on the market, only then we're in trouble. So these are the things we need to think about. And, here, I'll, I've suggested these two conclusions, I'm sorry, ten minutes is a little bit for ten audit reports, but we accepted it at the beginning of the session and both me and the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23662	Thank you. At this point, we're giving a break an hour for lunch. So this is where I'll see you at 3:10. We have a quorum, and I'm asking you to proceed with the session. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23664	Thank you, Madam Chairman. 53 Given that audit reports are on the agenda and one part of the segment of the agencies we should be here as responsible people, people called legislators watching audit reports through a review of a set of laws that treat the overall work of agencies. Because if we don't look at it that way, we'll always look at what they're doing in the review that can insinuate or implicate something that's negative, even though when this good reading isn't negative, it's because it's an unregulated legal space, and it starts with the basic one, it's the Public Procurement Act. I can't be surprised that someone listed such data when it came to driving, that's what my colleague Pandurević mentioned. Namely, how will you describe if you describe the vehicle you need if you don't want its characteristics, 4 meters, 1100 cubic meters, consumption so much, volume, volume of trunk so large, number of seats so large, transfer to all four or transfer only to two, and so on, you didn't describe anyone's vehicle. Here, my vehicle can now be described this way, and I could offer it like this, or yours, and yours or anyone. I understand that it's like, so then it's described by a curve like this, a hood like that, a motor set radially or axially, and then a drawing of a supplier, but it's not here. There are as many examples as you want, such examples are also what are called spare parts. I'm lucky or unhappy to live in the environment of three embassies, and that's why I have a lot of trouble, it's the Kinez, it's the Saudijac, and it's Qatar, next to each other. And these guys who work there and then how they whine because they don't have spare parts for vehicles, because by tender, they say the characteristics of the parts, and they drive the vehicle, it doesn't matter if it's a shame, and then they offer it to Hyundai the spare part that, of course, the code can't but it's cheaper, but it can't be bought, you don't... and then the one complains, so they can't get the equipment. Now, nobody's gonna see that they can't complete the process. And then he says what they'd call direct bargaining. Well, it's always doubtful that someone put something in someone's pocket in a direct contract, but they won't see that it's impossible to complete the procedure without it, that it's impossible. And those prices are easy... on the market, that's not a problem at all. We're putting into a very indescribable situation what we're supposed to represent, and it represents in all normal countries, we say that we're a normal country that has a flaw, you know, like a sheep with a voice flaw, we have a flaw like a country, we appreciate what the country is, at least we appreciate the structures that make this country safe in all segments. So when you need an escort, they're just escorting people from these agencies, and they're protecting you, when you need protection, they're protecting you, when you need security for the gatherings, they're protecting you, and so on. We forgot about it, but because when it comes to the Court, the D.A.'s office and tell about the changes to the law, etc., so that they become realistically efficient here, we keep our mouth shut, because it's obvious that it suits some people very well, so we're going to be conducting what's going to happen, and according to the audit reports, they're going to call for a hearing if they're told and that these people have been dragging them around pointlessly for years. And in the end, just tell me where one case is ended and that, according to the audit reports, there was an irregularity or ultimately a crime. I haven't read it yet, and I've read about these, here's a fourth year, audit reports so many things that, by what's written, we should be at all levels here, not just talking about the state level, about the state level, but at all levels of public enterprises, through the ministries, over, over, I don't know, the service, the agency, that we have at least 20 of those objects like this future state prison, because from what we've read there, what we've read so far, that Bog loves and shelters, in which way they're all done, but there's real ones, meaning not like the vehicle, but also real abuses of budgets. Just tell me that they are not abuses – use it, and then, later, by the will of your majority, bring the budget rebalancing, so it all comes back as if it happened half a year ago or a year ago. These are things I've never seen anyone do. We obviously have the intention of destruction, obstruction, not real, real support and real creation of the foundation that young people, which we obviously don't hear or don't want to hear, don't bark at all of us and want to mess us up, and 54 is clearly preparing to sweep us all away. I want them to succeed because it's time for all those who bring this country down through everything and through reports like this to be removed from the political scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23665	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23666	I thank the chairman. Unlike some time before when we had negative audit reports here, we can find that the situation is much better than it was back then. Mrs. Majkić, there's nothing funny about this. The audit law clearly states that negative audit reports go to the BiH Prosecutor's Office after automation. On this basis, we recall the BiH Prosecutor's Office opened the case... four years ago, based on an audit report. Unfortunately, we still don't know that subject's epilogue. So I will refer to this first conclusion by my fellow Špirić where he calls for... where there are gaps in public procurement to be sent to the Office to consider complaints. I don't think there's an institution in this country that's sacred cow and infallible. I will remind my colleagues - all of us here have received one letter in due time signed by the former chief prosecutor, Mr. Goran Salihović, and in which he informs us that a criminal case has been brought against a member of the Board of Appeals. The man is still a member of the Board of Appeals today, it is about some indications and that the damage has been done by several million marks, two or three million marks. Do you think a man like that has more credibility than, I don't know, anyone here? I think we should also deal with the kancelarija of Appeals, because I know that here at the Ministry of Defence, when we had a public hearing, it turned out that the Office had annulled some public procurement, and then it turned out that those who complained to the Office of Appeals couldn't deliver that equipment afterwards, and the Department of Defence has a very serious problem because of the decisions of the Office for Appeals. We have a problem with the Public Procurement Act here. I read the comments of the auditors who, I must say, are pure insinuations, says – the offer in the tender of the one who has been selected is 100 marks less than the price envisaged by the tender. Well, we, I guess everyone in this country knows three bidders get together and deal, so 90% of the big tenders in this country are pre-arranged, get together, whether they're construction works, here..., gather three companies and tell you give you an offer this tender is yours, the next is mine,... So that doesn't mean that someone in the institutions where those objections are being made that they've been misusing, no, they've put out a tender. If the car's three cars have arranged each other's schedules and that's it, we all know it's done. Furthermore, we know that a set of police laws was passed in 2008. The Serbian Democratic Party did not vote for them, and perhaps of all those sitting here was the only one against the set of laws. I'm not going to go into whether your laws are good or bad, but they're contradictory. So we have this conclusion that we're doing joint procurement for police agencies and that's what the Police Support Agency is doing. So one of the goals when she was made was that. But then we have other laws that say that these directors sitting here on the left are in charge of their agencies to make purchases and they're responsible. Does that mean that they should, means any one of them should sign something that someone else did and that's why he's criminally answering tomorrow. So, we need to change the law so we can tell all the police agencies that the Police Support Agency is doing, to get it out of the SIPA Act, the Border Police Act, we've solved the problem. So, I won't look back at these cars and anything else that was mentioned, quite rightly, says the border police are looking for, I don't know, a four-point van drive. Well, my people often go 55 over Romania when you can't get through, pick up 12 people on shifts, and not tell them what it's like to take the border police van to the Sceptan field in January winter conditions, so whether people need it to get killed or to get them a normal drive so they can cross. So, it seems to me that the Office of Audits has not very often had an insight into why something really happened, I'm not going to say that in some cases such conditions are not justified, but there are specialised vehicles, there are specific needs of the police agencies that they really need. If you're talking about the volume of the trunk, and the vehicles of the SIPA are going to look into it, they're carrying some evidence, their officers are carrying guns, now they need to put it in some trunk, what, to buy some Paul so they can't put any of it in, or the border police, too, it's about police agencies. What worries me here is that some agencies go deaf year after year about recommendations. One such recommendation is to the Agency for Identification Documents to consider the price of rent paid, leased, a fully justified recommendation from the auditor. Imagine, please, the average price they pay is 23, depending on the building, up to 33 marks per square, and in Agrem, which is considered the most modern business centre in Banja Luka, the price of buying a square meter is 20 marks. I don't see that the Agency has made efforts to reconsider that price, why not and move, why they have to be there. But when someone mentions that we're not looking at the mirror, we need to look in the mirror because the problem with the accommodation of this agency is still unresolved. Why is he unsolved? Because someone once thought to make a plan that this agency needs 30,000 square feet of business space, and please use 2,000 today. So why are we buying those 28? It's a project-based, planning documentation that predicts it. And of course this Council of Ministers has acted responsibly and put aside the previous decision. To what to throw, let's say we're solving the problem of all the joint institutions in Banja Luka and here's 30,000 squares, everyone can... but to one agency please. Let's not talk about this agency and today we have a problem with public procurement about passports. I won't say again, they may be guilty too, but I'm not sure it's also the responsibility of the Board of Appeals. I repeat that in the Board of Appeal we have people against whom we have not been informed that the investigation has been suspended, and we have been informed that an investigation is being conducted against them, in the case of Siniša Dodik, here I will also say in which case. So, the recommendations of course should be implemented, financial discipline should be improved, but what is the essence of all these audit recommendations is that we obviously have a problem with a certain law and that it is necessary to harmonise certain laws in order to..., in order to work. Let's coordinate, and here's a call to the Council of Ministers, here's the Minister of Security, let's coordinate all these laws, and the Law on the Police Support Agency with the SIPA Act, the border police, everyone, as someone here, is charged with something they're not responsible for. No, someone here said they needed more work, effort to get a rule of police supplement. Well, on our commission we received all and one memo, Mr. Mirko Lujić sent two memos, Mr. Goran Zubac sent six letters, Mr. Perica Stanić sent me nine letters, so only that they started threatening to strike hunger here in front of the institutions not to adopt it. So, I don't see, they're not the ones who bring the acts, they're all responsible, they've acted responsibly, here I know and Director Bilić(?) He's asked me several times if I can help and influence this act to be passed. So I don't see that responsibility as I don't see the responsibility of Minister Crnadko in Zakono on foreign affairs, so we couldn't agree on that law this many years. Minister Crnadak is working on this Act, but this Law is not only his responsibility, this Law is the responsibility of all of us here, it is a matter of political will in this country whether or not we want this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23667	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Mensura Beganović. Here you go, excuse me, correcting Mrs Dušanka Majkić's wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23668	There's a lot of untruth here... told, but I'll just say a few. Agency IDDEEA, it is a relatively modest observation of the audit, the basis for an opinion with the reserve is the realization of a project building of the headquarters of the Agency which is not re-evaluated by planned dynamics, I think for 10 years it has been waiting for this building to start construction. Now as far as the size of the space is concerned, as we know, the space planned by a designer named Edim Nesimi, who was the recent director of this agency, was adopted by the Council of Ministers. It is planned on a gross surface of 9,611 m2, but the net surface is 8,800. We could hear all kinds of stories, from the minister of security who talked about 15-20 thousand to some column she was talking about, here's what you just said, tens of thousands, so amazing things. No Niko's going to read the thing but how projected it is and why this building isn't actually going to be built. It's a key question that people bring up lies. It is enough to read the audit report and read the insistence of the audit that construction of the building will begin because the building permit that has been paid will be lost, the space that has been obtained will be lost. Someone cares about changing the place of construction, in the year of the election it means a lot of things. There's another thing that's important that no one mentions about the Foreign Ministry, what the audit found is alarming, perhaps most alarming of all that we've heard so far, says – the basis for an opinion with the reserve is the list of funds and... the actual situation in the main book, so the revision is not able to confirm the exact financial reports in the part of the demand for liabilities and fixed funds in the Ministry. Can you imagine? can't confirm actual reports within the foreign ministry and nobody's paying attention to that. [[the speaker is warned on time]] ♪ Shefick ♪
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23669	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23670	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. Well, it's obvious that we, maybe I have the wrong... obviously we're not ready to discuss the audit report in a competent way, is always politics Wednesday. People have made a huge effort and told us – you have a report, please state what Parliament's competences are. We cannot change it as a report but as Parliament we can give a dop rinos to advance the system. Under the law of the Office of Appeals is the only one who can do something, so no one, I am not,... nor have I accused anyone, she is the only one Parliament can say – please..., people say there is nothing,... okay, but to just encourage that responsibility for performing public office. The second thing, the Police Support Agency, is in line with the law to run joint procurement. That doesn't diminish the agency director's responsibility to tell them what they need, in which they are. But if the unique purchase is not equal to the price for 1,000 pieces, and for two pieces, and for 100 pieces, but the supply of weapons, different equipment, etc. So, the point when we were working on it was to run a united procurement through the Police Support Agency, without reducing anyone's responsibility. And I don't know why the Agency wouldn't do that. Eh, that's where 57 political grades are already coming in. But, please, the point is that we as Parliament do what we can. And I am therefore, respecting all institutions to do every part of the work, if we doubt the Board of Appeals, make a proposal to change, so I guess it's in the intelligence. If we were to analyze how many MPs there are now, where, what, how, would we have a council. Look, people, we can't charge everyone in this country on a flat-rate basis, they're all criminals, and we're all the best to sit at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23671	Thank you. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23672	I thank the chairman. Some obviously have short memories. If we talk about last year's audit reports, we need to remember those earlier reports, so we need to remember the audit report of the Agency for Identification Documents for 2012, '13, '14, '15. And the Council of Ministers' decision, you know. It is netačan that it is the first, a new project was created by the former director of the Agency for Identification Documents, following the Council of Ministers' intervention. The original project and decision of the previous Council of Ministers is 30,000 m2, ask your esteemed colleague Špirić he must remember, the value of the project 22,530,000 marks. The Council of Ministers quite justifiably said that this was extremely unsupervised, extremely unnecessary, and ordered the project to be audited, to reduce the square of the building. There is no movement there, Mrs. Majkić, so long as you know that the seat of the Agency for Identification Documents is defined by law, that the Agency's headquarters can be moved elsewhere only if the law changes, and such a change of law, I guess all of us Srbin from Republika Srpska are at least agreed that we will never accept such a change of law.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23673	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mensura Beganović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23674	I thank the chairman. I'm really glad that, here, we have the opportunity to discuss these findings in more detail with the audit reports, but I'm not going to deal with more than one institution that we've been given the opportunity to talk about audit reports, I'm just going to look back at the Directorate for indirect taxation. So, unrealised recommendations are from 2015, so I'm going to mention that some of these unrealised recommendations really shouldn't have been an address at the Directorate for indirect taxation, but rather to whoever was supposed to do it. To read, not all activities for the application of the Electronic Signature Act have been realised as a prerequisite for the functioning of the MCTS system. Therefore, the Audit Office should bear in mind that this is not an obligation of the Directorate for indirect taxation, but of those ministries and the Council of Ministers who need to adopt these laws and other sublaws in order to implement the Electronic Signature Act. In the context of this and the recommendation, whose realisation is in progress, which says it is the same, therefore the implementation of the MCTS system should allow the electronic submission of VAT applications whose cost of postal services to send VAT applications will be significantly reduced. So the same story, same 58 laws, same reason. I can't help but object that the Audit Office put these two remarks on Upavu for indirect taxation as something that is their problem that they really can't solve on their own. And now what they can do on their own and what I resent when it comes to unrealised recommendations from 2015. One of the important issues is the question of the revision of the collection and distribution of funds from the single account of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, which has not been discussed by the Management Board. We already have several initiatives from Tuzla Canton, from the Zenic-Doboj canton that are dissatisfied with distribution, the distribution criteria. So I think it's high time that this is seriously discussed, so it's either going to remain the same criteria for distribution or it's going to change and put into some real frames. But in 2015 you have this recommendation that has not been realised, today it is 2018. Then, in the same set of unrealised recommendations, you have an objection or request to consider and to solve differently a huge number of transfers of employees to the Directorate for Direct Taxation, so that 455 transfers were made in 2016. I mean, why, I can't figure out the reasons even though we, even though I'm a member of the Commission on Exports and Customs, Foreign Trade and Customs, have had the opportunity to listen to some of the reports by the representatives of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, and I don't remember what they cited as a reason for a huge number of transfers that, here and here are also seen by the Office of Audit. In the same set of unrealised recommendations of 2015 there is also compensation for members of the Management Board who do not comply with the legal provisions, and also in a more detailed description of that part, that, that they were much larger, higher, greater compensations to the members of the Management Board than those adopted by the Law in 11 months 2015. But here you have suspended the payment of these fees to members of the Management Board in March 2016 and are asked whether this payment is done in accordance with the applicable law. One of the remarks that also came to me for an eye, and as far as it's concerned, I've discussed one other time, and the decision on the resolution of the issue, or whether the regulation of the issue of seizing the property, the funds seized, is only a problem here from the vehicle taken, and in the finding of the Audit Office, it is said that it is recommended that the Administration continue its activities towards the competent institutions in order to address the problem of the hijacked vehicles. So it's about the decision of one that needs to be made in order for smaller vehicles to have which old, fail, lose value, to have less costs to store those vehicles, they can now only end up in old iron, they can no longer take care of each other, at least that's what they look like, because traffic regulations for such vehicles are becoming more stricter and stricter, even with us. So I can't understand that making such a decision is so complicated that you can't make a decision from 2015 to today how to solve it. Here I'm going to take the opportunity to say something else about taking away the other goods that have, may be the subject of destruction or, say, the subject of humanitarianism, to be divided into humanitarian purposes. And we have discussed that decision several times with representatives of the Directorate for Direct Taxation on our Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, and then it is said to be working on that decision. I thought it was a rule, that it was something that was a sublegal act so it takes more time, more people, more institutions and factors that decide and that they agree on the criteria for resolving these procedures, the procedure for, the process of taking away property m. taj part in this audit report is gone, there's absolutely nothing, or I didn't find anything, but as far as I'm aware, that decision has not been made. So, in the end, I will no longer detail this report, the audit report, I support the proposal for conclusions that are here on the table, and it is actually about what to do with, what to do, what to do about institutions, or management, the administration of institutions that in these 59 findings consider not to have solved the recommendations made in previous years, to repeat from year to year, or have not given satisfactory results. These are suggestions made by fellow Sokolović and I think that the gentleman, and fellow Špirić, also made something similar, so I think that these proposals make sense to discuss seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23675	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Isaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23676	I thank the chairman. Well, I have no intention of dealing with this audit report for the simple reason that every year we look at these audit reports, about 150 of them, this one, and what review, financial audit, which is an impact review. So here the situation is quite clear, we are constantly discussing it and we have no effect on these conclusions. What I want to point out, therefore, is the work of reviewing these agencies and what really impresses me, unlike some previous reports, these reports are much more content and quality and have a completely different approach. Why am I saying this? Because I am an auditor myself, so I have a special aspect in this regard, and I want to point out that they need to be given quite solid working conditions, so material and technical conditions that would probably make the results much better. But what's interesting here is that, therefore, we have had audits, financial audits, impact audits and, of course, a new revision of the realizations already made, i.e. the observations made by those observations, and that would be said in the European Union for quality review. So that third revision that was just missing here is slowly being introduced into the procedure, and that's the quality that needs to be considered in particular. What's new about that? So the revision introduced one approach where it made a consolidated report on the realization of the conclusions. What's that? All 1,500 so far have been audited, or, that remark or suggestion of revision, they have emulated 25 conclusions that are a common denominator for all institutions. So we have non-stop repetition, let's say, problems in public procurement, problems in systemization, problems in cash registers, problems in the list of assets, etc., etc. So they've all been verified in this consolidated report that he's also had, we've had a chance to see and we've also discussed it on the Finance and Budget Commission. What else is that, therefore, is the fact that the conclusions are, therefore, observed from another aspect, whether they are, are in conformity with the legal rules. So we had the financial part and the other part of that conclusion to see if, uh, they were in line with the legal regulations. This was also about various ministries, but those ministries were not responsible for these remarks in their remarks. We're going to give examples, and let's just say, here, which was discussed when it came to the Council of Ministers in which we said, is that, that there is no law on foreign affairs, that the revision found that there was this conclusion, that is, that comment, but that there is no compliance with the law, that is, there is no law on external affairs, and it is not simply their problem. But they also have some other problems that are very pronounced. For example, these systematicizations, cash registers, journals, work contracts, etc., etc., therefore, what is really problematic. And what is very important here is that the audit is not an investigative authority, so we cannot expect from the revision that it is sending to the prosecution and that, but is obliged to send its reports to this Parliament and the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers, as an executive body, is required to carry out, i.e. to consider observations and to implement their implementation. In that sense, I think it is most responsible for implementing these conclusions. Why do I say that? Well, until the last two years of 60, the Council of Ministers had not even received these reports, had not considered or considered them, and had only taken note of them, of any conclusions, or of the implementation of these conclusions were not on the agenda, nor were they in charge of doing so. This time this is well done, in my opinion, to discuss in Parliament 10 institutions that have a negative opinion and to see how these conclusions will be realized This is what I think is very important and we need to carry out, so let's see what happens to this. Here, thank you, so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23677	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23678	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. The wrong allegation is, not on a colleague now, but on a colleague earlier, and it is actually a suggestion of the conclusion of fellow Špirić. Namely, the proposal for a conclusion No 1. says – an audit report with a reserve and a focus on public procurement gaps to be forwarded to the Office for the Review of Appeals which is required to submit misapplications for responsible persons in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in cases of violations of the Public Procurement Act. This law does not know, therefore, the law, by law and by the obligation of the Board of Appeals, that it cannot file a criminal complaint because of these errors which are mentioned here, and that is the conclusion that does not make any sense. I'm saying this because it doesn't happen to us to adopt a conclusion that practically means nothing, and we're going to come out here with the conviction that we've made something. So, and if you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman, to say two, three sentences, so I can delete my name on the left, if I may, I'll frame myself here at this time. In fact, we are acting, firstly I welcome that Parliament has decided to deal with this, I am one of those who voted that we are discussing this here today, but we also cannot act as though we have audit reports ahead of us for the first time. We've had audit reports in front of us for years, and we've treated them like this for the first time, and so far they've been, and so far we've adopted conclusions, and so far they've been largely unimplemented by the institutions to which they've been going. Today, the impression here in Parliament is that they are both against audit reports, that they are one for respecting the law, and the other for not respecting the law, which is absolutely pointless. So we're all here to make the corrections and remarks that the auditors have made, no matter who the government is, who the opposition is, I guess that's how much we can agree on this issue and there's no need to create this other kind of atmosphere. In the end, the goal of all of us is to get institutions that work under the law, the goal of all of us is to make public procurement legal. I'm still gonna have to keep going when this comes to the left. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23679	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23680	Mr. Chairman, it is only a guilty allegation that the infringement provision of the Public Procurement Act applies because they oblige the Office to consider complaints to impose fines for a violation under official duty. In particular, Article 116(2) clearly states the infringements, in paragraph (3) of the same Article, the amount of fines from 300 to 3,000 marks for the responsible person in the contractual body, i.e. the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in our case, is prescribed. I was saying that there is a possibility of punishment, of budgetary punishment of institutions, but these are again budget funds, this is personal responsibility, this is what Parliament needs to encourage, not thinking that people are guilty. The Board of Appeals will pass and say no, but... just to make us responsible in Parliament and to put that office in motion. Here, I just think that according to a member of the law, it stands, if someone hasn't read it, let them gain insight into the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23681	Thank you. Mrs. Hanka Vajzović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23682	Thank you, Chairman. Here, we've heard a lot of things in the debate so far, the auditors have said about 2016, we've singled out these 10 agencies that we're discussing and we've heard that this is the first time that we've put the agenda in this way, that this is how we discuss those who were called in the audit report that they didn't work well. I'm not just sure what we have out of it except for the satisfaction of this, or what we're going to have besides satisfaction, here's to saying that, what's on my soul, what we've seen and what we're additional, especially if the audit report has certain points of focus mostly on public procurement. There's a lot left that could be a problem, and nothing's covered. I'm just going to take a quick look at this whole material, and it's all for 2016, and it was a long time ago, and now it's 2018, we're talking about a big delay. So I've singled out a question from the Ministry of Security where auditors say the weaknesses of the internal control system are in the process of using official vehicles and in the process of staff engagement based on an act contract, and we find out in one sentence. Of course, it would be very interesting to talk about a moratorium of employment and junk, and taught by experience from earlier mandates, it would be interesting to see how many people are on the contract of action and how in the meantime employed in this ministry or some other, because I've singled this out because here I am somehow, I say especially given the experience of the previous term, you know there's a counselor, and then when the end of the term of office, then simply you get the rank staff from the status of advisors into the status of an expert saint, so they stay as civil servants. I've also dealt with the Border Police, there's a lot to comment on, says the shortages are in the process of purchasing official vehicles. My kolegica Pandurević said it was justified, probably if there is an excuse then it should be, but what was planned with the budget, as far as it was set out for the purchase, and then the question remains, not only for the Director of the Border Police, but also for some others, to get the director a special vehicle, which means, whether it goes on the ground, it's not, that's what the media wrote about. But here's what's worth paying attention to. According to some information, on the other hand, maybe 40 vehicles are in use for 24 hours, who, how, why? At work, from work, from weekends, there's a lot of stuff and again I say it's not just the border police. 62 I've singled out public procurement here, they're mostly talked about, public procurements that are really enormous, which is logical there are a lot of employees, but you know when you see the number that 40 grand is about to be given for ties, 40 grand just for socks, etc., there's a lot of people and it's gonna be okay. But on the other hand we have a problem in public data, 30 km per cop, an increased b swarm of migrants, etc., missing a lot, not filled by systemization, etc. And here stands 16 framework agreements 3.5 million, large figures, 37 public procurement contracts 4 million and change, and then 389 purchases through a direct agreement, etc. What about this when we read all this, what's next, that's the point I answered. And finally, instead of this planned million and two hundred on the rolling stock one million and four hundred, etc., the question remains, as a long-term question, and as a problem, when someone gets a negative opinion or opinion with a reservation from the Audit Office and gets some recommendations, what happens afterwards. That's what we're breaking up today and what we're going to get out of it. So our question remains – does it have to be, especially if we've separated this point of the agenda, does it always have to be that the wolf eats the donkey? We expect this session, if it's the first time, that some results will still be different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23683	Thank you. Mr. Damir Bećirović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23684	Well, I will, here, try as quickly as possible, because we have discussed this at the Finance and Budget Commission and just to remind myself that we have reached a conclusion on the Finance and Budget Committee which negative audit reports refer to work in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and that the BiH Prosecutor's Office is checking whether there are any allegations of illegality in that section. What falls first for me, I have to ask what I'm asking and I'm curious, since we've been given a chance, here, to see the representatives of the institutions that have been processed by these audit reports, the question mentioned in the BiH Prosecutor's Office Report, and this is about the Impact Group for the fight against trafficking in human beings. The audit report itself says that the task force against trafficking in human beings was established, in the Decision itself, in Article 11 and the Decision said that the group would stop working once it became functionally SIPA. So we know ourselves that SIPA has been working for a long time, and we have a situation where people who are members of that group, the Impact Group, are receiving a quarterly level of 1,000 KM for the chairman of that group and 900, I think, KM for the members of that group. I wonder if this Strike Group, here to tell me if it's still operational, because we have a decision, it's contradictory to itself, so it says in the Decision that it will disband itself, and it's about a period of about 14 years for which people sitting there illegally or past the Decision receive certain fees. In my opinion, that's the use of budget funds, so I'd like to hear the answer to that question, and here's when we have options, is there a task force, is there any fee to be paid from the formation of the SIPA and beyond, so that's one of the very important issues? What we also heard was a question of public procurement and there are very important official vehicles, as far as we hear about purchases, so I would suggest one conclusion – that the Ministry of Finance delivers a table picture of public procurement of state institutions that have official vehicles for the subject of purchase. The information should contain the amount of contracts signed, the name of the legal person who is the signator of the contract with the state institution and that information should cover the period from 2000 to 2018. 63 That way, I think we'll get a better view of the situation, and see if there are any companies that appear, whether there are certain links between then-leaders, current leaders, state-owned institutions that have signed contracts with the contractual authorities. I think that is the conclusion that all colleagues and colleagues, MPs, MPs and who will bring some lighting, let's say in this section regarding official vehicles that are always interesting. And I'd also like to hear the answer, here, regarding the Strike Group and payment of fees from 2004 to today.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23685	Thank you. Mr. Staša Košarac, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23686	Thank you. I would like to welcome once again my colleagues and colleagues, your directors of police agencies, your ministers. It is true that the SNSD and Mr Špirić's Club of MPs have been able to take part in a special session, and then we agreed to be the first to come next, find audit reports for these 10 institutions. It was our position and what should be pointed out and said that all MPs of the House of Representatives, perhaps one or two, were against or abstained or not in the O.R. This speaks of Parliament's commitment to discuss this matter in a two-way way and on the basis of facts, not how we of the SNSD are used to treating us in a flat, hysterical way or I don't know how. After all, we have come to the conclusion that the directors, ministers, will be able to agree with the representatives of the Central Audit Service, which this very structure and this majority have chosen and to see what the problem is. Different translations and poor defenses make you more, I would say, in the public of the worse image. We do not have the ambition to conduct polemics on the basis of the flat-rate evaluations here, but rather to take this position that, on the basis of the arguments made by the two sides, Parliament makes its own decision, or its conclusions in accordance with the positive legal rules. This was the intensity of the SNSD and the House of Representatives' Club, no other translation. You're witnessing that you're not on the list of positive reports, but the reserve reports, again the wrong translations are putting you in a position to say that your reports are positive, they're not. But let me, I have the right to state a political position on certain agencies and ministries that have been created in an unconstitutional way by decisions of high representatives, interventions, etc., and that is our political position. Our political position is that a review of such decisions and such institutions should be carried out. That might be the time, we're fighting for the time to come. But we want to say, on the basis of the arguments, all of us here together what is the problem, if the least child who goes to school reads what agencies and institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina have an opinion with the reserve, it will logically conclude that there is also a problem with the implementation of the positive legal rules of the agencies in charge of implementing the law. And that's why we asked to react, to ask for this to be discussed here in the House of Representatives, that the House of Representatives, based on what it hears from you, hears from the Chief Audit Service, draws certain conclusions. It wasn't you that in a casual way, we quoted in public what the Office of Audit has written for us, which this majority has chosen, we only quoted what was written and asked for debate in the House of Representatives. Here by who knows which way some of them recycle, based on hysteria, flat-rate grades, some of the affairs, and it's a constant deal with the people of the SNSD. Let everyone, my people, answer for everything he's done contrary to the law, we don't have that problem, but don't let people draw targets, and that's what they do for three and a half years, without arguments, facts, etc. We are careful here, and we know many things that happen around passports and going to Paris and Vienna, who is the head of the cabinet and where the IDDEEA came from, we know, but we are not going to be able to bring up 64 pausals until we have facts and let the investigative authorities and competent institutions do so, but don't every time, it's mentioned now, so we can't talk about the credibility of one institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina based on one case, in the context of another zak pot, which is proposed, that this restrictive measure goes through the KRZ. So if that individual has broken the law, if the competent institutions determine it, let him answer, but it can't affect the credibility of the KRB because he's not one, he's not one man. So, frankly, I want to talk about these things, completely open. Please, what the SNSD tried through the conclusion proposal is to treat the legal rules to see what the solution is, not to speak casually, not to do it in a political way. If the Public Procurement Act is a problem, let's see what is the way to change the Public Procurement Act, but how to sanction a public enterprise, a public institution, a company in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we have that, by order of the Main Service of Audit, we have that institutions that need to monitor and implement positive legal regulations violate those laws and have a problem with the audit service. That's the point, and that's our political attitude. It's the easiest thing for us to talk politically, to say that there's also corruption here, that, to lean on some media inscriptions, etc., but it offends us when based on arguments, the fact that the service you've chosen is quoting and saying that someone else honors us in a flat, hysterical way continues to take account of and the need to deal with anyone from another political option. We do not experience any level of government, whether it is entityal, whether at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a model of dealings with political indivisibles and we want to say it, we have no fear of saying it, and we do not have to agree politically, we do not have to think the same thing, but don't ask that this is how we deal with people who think differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23687	Thank you. Mr. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23688	Dear colleague Košarac, when you speak, then you should say who, namely everyone we spoke, we feel like you're saying we're defending someone. We're not defending anyone, and we have no intention of defending anyone, we're talking about reality and reality in the report here. Secondly, you're talking about something that's been brought unconstitutional, which shows your basic ignorance of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Namely, those who have, as you say, imposed an official in accordance with and worked in accordance with the Dayton Peace Agreement and in accordance with the powers conferred on them by the Dayton Peace Agreement. The fact that we are not able to do something ourselves is our problem, then we are doing it unconstitutionally, and those who did it are in line with the Dayton Peace Agreement or how we are used to say with the Constitution of BiH. So we start avoiding something that isn't, because when we talk, it's not in line with the Dayton Peace Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23689	Thank you very much. Mr. Borislav Bojić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23690	Thank you. Correction of the false allegations of a distinguished colleague of Staša Košarac. I'll be very brief and very precise. I haven't heard anything from the debate about cases called audit reports, all of this was a story that wasn't directly related to the audit, you've all, you know, talked about other than the audit reports, you haven't. Next, we're not defending anyone, we're absolutely not defending anyone, even if you know anything, so you're not the ones who've talked about the audit reports this way, but the Parliamentary Assembly, as I recall, is a little who opposed that this is the way the debate is being held. This kind of debate for the reserve reports is first being held in the Parliamentary Assembly and from here should be the conclusion that we will all support, because I am fully convinced that this question is important to you, it is so important for every individual sitting in this Parliamentary Assembly, whether he is a positional or opposition MP. Of course I'm not going to deal with things now that you think I'm going to do, and that's what you have to do with auditors. I just want to say about what counterpart Novaković said about the first conclusion of fellow Špirić. See if it is possible, therefore, to sanction, this agency that deals with the decision-making issues can only proceed with the proceedings, while the proceedings are ongoing, in the process, when the procedure is completed it has completed the work, the public procurement, has completed the job, that is, the point of the procurement commission, or the agency that deals with these affairs, or the service. So that's what's possible, so this one of yours... This second conclusion when it comes to uniting purchases, etc., please this is a legal question defined and there is no dispute and I see nothing in your epochal conclusion that you are proposing that revolutionaryly change the situation in the main audit area, I can't see that, so I didn't recognize anything that you were saying. directly on one of the audit reports containing some content which, in your opinion, should be apostrophyd among other things, you have already said something that has not really been related to the audit reports themselves. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23691	Thank you. Mr. Salko Sokolović, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23692	Thank you, Your Honor. Oh, here, Mr. Košarac, I feel a little called since I've discussed it before and I've just talked about police reports. Look, here I am holding in my hand a report from the Agency for Investigation and Protection, where it says – the basis for an opinion with a reserve of payment of an allowance on the salary of police officers was carried out in 2016 as in earlier years. What does that mean? What we just said, so it's not the Agency's responsibility for what she did, it's someone else's fault in the chain, and we said there was no sublegal act, that it was the Council of Ministers, etc. But here, what if the Agency hadn't done it? There'd be a lawsuit, and we'd have an even more expensive process, right? They'd pay off and pay off the lawsuit process that would be conducted at that point. So, the Agency had to do it and they weren't responsible, the Council of Ministers is responsible because it did not adopt a sublegal act to complete the procedure. As far as these public procurements are concerned, that's what's going on, and I'm not going to go in there for no responsibility, but it's a distraction. So that's probably one minor offense. 66 As far as the public procurement process is concerned, Mr Špirić, you say that the process, what you're saying, is the situation when the public procurement process is over and when the job is assigned and the appeal comes, and I understand it. But here we are talking about issues of responsibility in the process of delaying public procurement and non-starting of public procurement, already existing, some wild annexes continue to contract with the old supplier. Now, that situation, this situation needs now through the audit report to take over and start an investigation. [[the speaker is warned on time]] But the D.A. did the same thing, and that's the problem. So, I want to be objective and correct that that responsibility that doesn't exist on institutions that I don't show as, we're showing it as a responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23693	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23694	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'll continue, I'll actually try to go on where I left off, but before I just repeat one thing I said and at the beginning of this discussion, and it's that I didn't realize this debate this way and I didn't realize the purpose of this debate as it is here today... I realized that this debate wanted us to come to a solution, that the revision found out where the problems were and that we, what happened for the first time, didn't exactly trust our committee who proposed the conclusions, but we thought that we could do more than the commission as Parliament and that today we would propose some conclusions which together with the Commission's conclusions will solve the problem. That's how I realized it, and that's why I supported this being found here. What's tragic, if we look at who's on this list, then it's tragic that we expect from the prosecution that's on this list, or from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council that's on this list, we expect that the report that we're going to send to the D.A.'s office, not us, but the commission, or the audit, that they're going to do something about it. It's a little bit, in my opinion, uh, unusual that we now expect this prosecution to solve with those institutions of others what is the same problem with them and what they haven't solved with themselves. But I hope that something changes, too, so in some future period, we're going to experience some changes. I didn't really realize that there are two sides here, one that attacks the findings from the audit report and the other that defends, I realized that all of us here want to say that what it says isn't good and that year after year, the report repeats itself in the report and that it took over part of the responsibility why we failed to fix the situation. That's how I understand it, and that's why I supported this to be found on the agenda, and that's what it turns out is that actually the seat determines the view, so now one of them attacks, and the other one has to defend what the auditor wrote there. To us, the key question is how to find a solution. Of course, there are different solutions in practice, somewhere the solution is to replace the main auditor, we and this practice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, take down the main auditor, and we have no more problems. We will certainly not apply that solution here, so we will continue to look here for a solution to how what has been repeated in the audit reports for years will cease to be repeated. I realized that the people of these institutions were in front of our commission, I don't know if they were all, I guess, that they explained what they didn't explain to us today, I don't know if we asked them to explain it, and if they needed to explain it, because everything that's written in the audit report there, and for years it's written, and not just with these, but with other institutions. And that's why I didn't think that today was the need to talk about targets, processes that run the service, because someone's afraid of it, if everything is pure is God, so if it's all clean and with these institutions I don't see why they would be afraid, or if something isn't clean, why don't we all do it together with them and with a review maximum of not being 67 years old. Here, I realized it so, and I'm sorry that now that I look at all these conclusions that we have, we're not on the trail of what we wanted, which is that through this today, through this debate today, we come to a solution. I fear that the solutions that we are proposing today are the same ones that have been repeated for years, which have resulted in nothing, or repeated mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23695	Thank you. Mrs. Hanka Vajzović, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23696	Thank you very much. It's not common for a man to replicate himself, to correct his earlier quote, but here, if you'll allow me to use it, I don't have any big options here. So, if I didn't understand, I was talking about the border police a little while ago, how I got out of those 10 reports to just one, and I'm going to say something that I've been having in the debate, and here, I kind of missed it, I forgot. So we have a problem, it seems important, we have a problem with legal abuse of position, it's internal acts. And here he may have mentioned a few things, but it seems very important to me, they're covered by leadership, that internally, there's a space left for internal, so there are laws, normatives, but there seems to be no obligation for internal acts to fully comply with those laws. Then who will resent it if so, who will resent it, including auditors, directors of agencies, who, for example, will drive expensive, allegedly specialized courses, who will blame them for perhaps spending tens of thousands of marks on work lunches or dinners. We have had such an av one report here, even so many times and it has been repeated in the same two or three catering facilities, perhaps more in the home area than in the Agency's headquarters, that it would work, when that is the case, to ask if they have any conditions for working and holding meetings at the workplace. You should review it, maybe, but you probably have the values you're looking at, here's the public procurement or what, it should be such and many other issues to deal with, it would make sense. But that's why I think a debate like this can really contribute to a better one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23697	Thank you. Mr. Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23698	Dear colleague Momčilo Novaković. Therefore, the law should provide for the procedure of possible recalling or replacing the Chief Audit Service, that is absolutely certain. What is also the fact that we have been having discussions about these important topics all day, and for years one of the important issues has been repeated, and what is, for years, so, the opinions on the audit reports are either with a distraction or with a reserve, or before it has been in some and negative, but I think the essence of this debate would be a purpose if we put the General Service Act on the agenda and legally foresees, therefore, more significant levels of sanctioning and liability for persons who do not implement the Law on the Main Service of Audit, or who violate the Law in the audit reports. In this regard, it makes sense to think about the fact that, when the Audit Service is considering the report, that is, the real report on the work of a particular institution and the insight, it is possible that 68 criminal acts will then be interrupted and at the same time referred to the Prosecutor's Office and the competent institutions that will initiate the responsibility. Without such a way of responsibility, without the responsibility of responsible persons in institutions, we will continue to have the irrational spending of budget funds, so the funds of citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In that sense, more serious sanctions should be considered, either because..., so internal procedures, sanctioning responsible persons in these institutions, shifts or other ways. Without it, we will not make more significant progress in Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of the rational spending of the budget of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23699	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23700	Well, I've got to tell my colleague that I didn't say at any point that the auditor was removed from the law, I didn't say, I'm just, we know why he was removed. So there are two types of possible shifts, either to replace the responsible persons or to replace the auditor. Some people decide to change their auditors, and they suggest a shift of responsible persons here, but I was hasty to say that there are different methods. And by the time I heard from the SBB colleagues, the conclusion would be acceptable to me if these plans and programmes instead of the House of Representatives were to be submitted to the Council of Ministers, because I think the reopening of the debate on these issues with the exit plans in the House of Representatives would be unnecessary for me. So either the Council of Ministers or our commission, so that our Finance Commission will consider these plans, if, of course, it suits you. If we do not respond to the conclusions we will define, it is not disputed, but we do seem to reopen this debate at the House of Representatives is unnecessary. That's why I'm saying it, and whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23701	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23702	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I wanted to stay away from the discussion on this topic because we have findings that are what they are and should do something about them, but all of this debate and especially... these 10 points, here in some way, offered me to discuss and one of the experiences I had in Banja Luka at a conference he organised, I think, the VSTV and other judicial institutions, where I've heard so much interesting, so I want to share these impressions with you. I think it was just Mr. Genjac from the MPs, and I'm sorry that some, and you weren't, I don't know if you were invited, I'm building on it now, but it was very educational and very convenient to hear what was being said there and especially on the subject because the topic and it was corruption, approximately, that I'm not speaking the exact title right now, but the topic was corruption and how to fight it. 69 Namely, in some data there were very interesting things, e.g. In one panel I participated in, the data was presented, so graphically, how many objects were launched, and how processed in corruption and organised crime. I got the impression as an advocate that the higher issue of this state was organised crime than corruption, at least according to the statistics I had on that panel where it was carried out. Moreover, it is also said there about the fact that the concept of corruption is not defined to the end. So, I've gotten the impression that the gentlemen of the judiciary, whether they're prosecutors, whether they're judges, it's not clear to the end what is actually considered corruption and when it becomes a crime. So, there are some concerns, at least that's how I've experienced it, I'm building myself if I haven't had a good time. In addition, a question was raised, for example. the effectiveness and all that we bring to the public, and also here in Parliament, of these flat-rate reviews that some colleagues have spoken. I've been on this subject a few times and I've been talking, and worse on a panel, I've been saying something about it, that sometimes it threatens my country, that society or agencies, or our behavior, put us in a position of the police state. You know, very often, the data are provided, including here in Parliament, and then you're looking for agencies or institutions that deal with it, to satisfy me or someone else in order to get some results. It seems to me that this is always not good and that it is a great danger for these institutions to turn into something called flat-rate behavior or work under pressure. On the other hand, when it comes to the work of the audit and the audit reports, there was enough, a lot of that topic was said there and it seems to me that he was overcoming the problem, so whoever was required to report certain things to the prosecution or to initiate proceedings. As far as I'm concerned, I'm rebuilding myself. He's got a colleague from the Justice Department. I'm not that kind of profession that I don't mind, I'm an example. I understood that by them the revision was not sufficiently capacitated and that the prosecution's reports, which are thousands of pages or thousands or two pages, had to again... that they might have initiated proceedings, that they weren't capacitated to recognize it all. Furthermore, whether everything that the review presents in its reports and gives as a recommendation or a warning of a criminal offence. So it's not all a crime, it's a recommendation that requires more effective action, not that everything is a crime immediately. So someone would have to determine that. That's why prosecutors were looking for a solution to get to that point in the process, so, in front of the authorities for, say, an obvious crime or an alleged crime. So, who's the one who's running this process, that's how I've experienced it, so I'm finally going to suggest some conclusions on what I've heard today and then, and whether they're just, therefore, enough of the prosecution's reports. They were saying, in fact, that in the state, it is every law enforcement officer who is obliged to initiate the procedure if he has observed a crime, especially one who is acting in certain responsibilities. In this context, therefore, there is no exception to the Office for Audits but not all of us are excluded, nor is the Director of the Agency, or particularly the person responsible where certain attention is drawn, if there is any indication that a criminal offence has been committed. Now, is anyone capable of assessing whether a crime has been committed? In fact, they're talking about that at some point, maybe when the review notices the situation that has the elements of the crime would include the prosecution. Just how? So it's not regulated enough by law. Therefore, very interesting things are said there, I can't convince everything I'm not from that profession either, I didn't remember everything, so for that reason, I'm going to suggest two conclusions that seem to me that we might be able to move things forward, as Mr. Novaković said, apart from those conclusions that we've gotten here in dozens, we're going to see how you're going to treat it. So, I would suggest for example. Conclusion: 1. It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to implement, in cooperation with the BiH Prosecutor's Office for Auditing BiH institutions, the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions within 60 days of the parliamentary procedure, the necessary amendments and additions to the Law, which would more fully regulate the issues of possible criminal acts contained in the report submitted by the BiH Institutions Audit Office. 70 it was one. The second conclusion would be: 2. Institutions that receive a positive opinion from the BiH Institutions' Office of Audit are obliged to analyse the findings of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office and, in the event of an alleged crime, to file criminal charges with the BiH Prosecutor's Office. So we're particularly talking about these 10 right here today. It seems to me that if these three institutions were to sit down, discuss and analyse the Law, they might propose some measures in which more effective approaches would be made, especially through reports from the Office for Auditing, Meaning and Public Procurement, Corruption, Crime, etc., in order to find some process that would improve this process and lead to some solutions in relation to the situation we have so far. I hope you might find some solution in these conclusions I suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23703	Thank you. Debate, MP Borislav Bojić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23704	I say hello again. I need to say a few sentences about this kind of debate and welcome this kind of debate in the Parliamentary Assembly in general with regard to the audit reports. First of all, I would like to commend the Chief Audit Service for doing in a professional sense a certain report on which a clear, open, transparent, public debate on audit reports is being conducted. I believe that the satisfaction for all those who have received a positive report is that they have received a positive report and we as parliamentarians have made a selection and said these are the institutions that have received a positive report. This does not mean that now those who have received the reserve report should say that there are no certain things that are good, there are certain things that are bad, etc. Well, we can't say, we're talking here, among other things, like spending the means of representation, and I'm looking at, say, when it comes to, for example. The SIPA that has the possibility of spending 50% of its resources has not spent on the team, so we cannot criticise that institution for such a relationship. I'm just saying one example. The following is not the role of the Auditing Chief Office, nor is it the role of the Audit Service. I think we've reached our goal because we've opened a debate and discussion. From here, the executive authorities, the Prosecutor's Office and all others who have received the reserve report will have an obligation to carry out certain things that they should do as competent institutions in accordance with the law. I think this is quite enough what we did today, someone commended, someone defended something. We have no reason to defend any institution, nor do these people here who have a backup report need to defend something from something and someone. If there are crimes, you know exactly who is processing everything that is guilty and how a criminal procedure is conducted. Maybe we should see if the Main Audit Service has enough capacity, if it needs any more space, any human potential, any professional people, to be empowered to continue its work. I assure you that this way of work makes sure that these institutions that we are talking about today will certainly make sure that they get a positive report next time, which is the result of today's debate. The result of today's debate will be that when these people come to their institutions to say – let's see what the problem was, which is why I found myself on the list there to have a review of the Chief Audit Service with certain remarks. Each of these people is serious about the head of that institution, they're going to bring their officers to the morning report and say, " Gentlemen, let's see what 71 of the problem is, have we made some kind of failure or haven't, to take measures that he can take out of his jurisdiction to take." That doesn't mean the investigative authorities won't do their job. So, in my opinion, I think this is good and it's better than when we're cumulatively discussing all the reports so we don't tell anyone that someone did their job well. There are people here who do their job well, and very rarely in this House we say to anyone who has done anything right, we are mostly prone to criticism. I think there are jobs that were good, there are those that do their job well. I want to say that the Central Audit Service has done a good job and to hear and to ask you representatives of the Central Audit Service – whether you need an additional transport, whether the law needs to be changed, whether there are interferences in the conduct of your affairs, what are obstacles to you making your reports even more quality. To get that kind of information, not just the one we had the way it was presented here. To all those who have received certain reserves in these reports, I recommend that they act in accordance with the law in their institutions, in the end it is their obligation, to remove all that is seen as a lack. And I believe that in this way, I believe that the Parliamentary Assembly will retain practice to single out those who have had a positive report from those who have had a report with a reserve and in a certain way that will draw attention and the need for this issue to be discussed in public. I expect, of course, that all our conclusions are in accordance with the law, not to make some of the conclusions that are objectively not implemented. It seems to me that our Finance Commission has made good conclusions and I appreciate the efforts of each of the MPs who tried to observe in their own way, namely, this, how he has his own vision or some of the political parties but it would be good to have the conclusions that are implemented, which we can objectively as Parliament ask to be implemented in terms of the realization of all that is necessary, and to improve the situation in terms of both public procurement and in general the work of the Audit Service. This may be an unusual approach to what we had the chance to hear now. And once again I say no one here defends us, nor do we need to defend anyone for the failure they made. And once again, thank you to the Audit Service, which has made it possible, above all, and especially good are those audit reports that have been doing impact audits, that is something that is certain, on which to further potentiate. It seems to me that the impact review is even more important than this revision that we have here now, because the impact review shows that actually state money can be made available in a far better way. I call on you to make the most of the impact audits and they will, for sure, contribute to a better use of state money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23705	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23706	Well, long ago, not a single item of the agenda or agenda in this Parlement has caused this wide debate, so I would say, broadly and by number, except for the excises, the broad and the number of people who discussed, MPs, and even wider in terms of the topic we discussed. We should look very closely at these agenda points to say that what we talked about here was within those agenda points. But well, when it's majority opinion that this is, this debate is on these agenda points, which are good reviews, and I'll agree. And 72 then as the chairman of the Committee on Finance and Budget say a few words about the procedure, about what we were doing at the last session of the House of Representatives and what we are doing today. I will remind you, at the last session, that is, at the 55th session, it has formally passed but we worked those agenda points at the last session, first we had the Annual Audit report on the main findings and recommendations for 2016. This is one document that sublimed everything regarding the revision in 23-4 of some chapters, basic recommendations or fundamentals, and we adopted three conclusions. Parliament adopted those conclusions proposed by the Committee on Finance and Budgets. Then we had the agenda item Report of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the financial audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions for 2016. And here, unlike the last few years, we pulled out these ten points of today's agenda and we only discussed 63 audit reports. But in doing so, through the discussion of these three, 63 audit reports, in fact, the debate, it seems to me, has not been anything, we adopted the zbirni opinion of the Committee on Finance and the budget with the conclusions contained in it. It's about 10 conclusions, and we've adopted the aprioras and what we're discussing here today, because in those 10 conclusions, seven conclusions refer to these 10 institutions that we're discussing today. With good will and good will, therefore, we have adopted certain conclusions which we did not discuss. These conclusions are found in the 55th session of the House of Representatives, and we would do well to remind them, because what is the fact that part of these conclusions overlaps with the conclusions that we have, some of the conclusions that we have received here today, and some of these conclusions are in conflict with some of the conclusions that we have received here today. And in order not to make a mess out of conclusions, it would be good to at least make sure that we read this in some way, so we can create a view and an opinion of the conclusions that we've got here today. In those seven, 10 conclusions seven directly refer to these institutions whose principals are mostly here today. There are some activities that they had to do, long ago they had to run and probably run. Some of these things that we have defined here would have to breed feedback from these institutions towards this House and according to the Office for Audit and the Committee for Finance and Budget. I almost thought it was smarter, and that was the last time I suggested that we discuss these 10 audit reports somewhat later on on the basis of feedback from these institutions. But here, I will agree with all of you that we have discussed today, that it is good that we have discussed them more comprehensively, wider and longer than ever, or at least as much as I have followed in these last few years, and that this and in this way, to say, that we have brought these people here all day to listen to us, to motivate them that next year's audit reports are as real as they are, when we know about those recommendations and the problems that are systematic... how much more quality they are in their powers and not be the subject of our debate, but they are within the general debate which is somewhat shorter, somewhat more relaxed. So, here, I suggest, I only reported after this... debate to warn about what we've already done and what we're doing today and that when we, uh, analyze new conclusions, we vote on them, that we have in mind and what we've already adopted here.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23707	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23708	I want to say once again that the Office of Audit or the Office of Audit is one of the bright points of Bosnian Herzegovina's reality and that is how we should observe them. And my replica is, here, to my friend Prodanović in terms of, uh, that we can't from the Office of Audit, Lazare, make the prosecution and the court, we already have the Prosecutor's Office and the Court. The audit office will become relevant at the moment, since it is not yet, when one day the national authority comes and when we have an independent prosecutor's office and a judiciary. The national government in the sense that the political leader, when they report to the political leader, was delayed by the director of the institution with public procurement, he starts his shift. It's the national government. When that happens to us then we'll also use what the Audit Office is presenting to us through its work, whether it's positive or negative for us to see it. And the other thing, there's a lot missing for review, but what I know for sure is an adequate space. And if I were to ask myself in this country, the largest building in Bosnia and Herzegovina would be the Office of Audit, so when all those who depend on it come along and look at it, they remember that they need to work by law and do what it says, what the laws in this country require, and they lack a little more independence. I think we'll give it to them through parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23709	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23710	I thank the chairman. I didn't even mean to report it, but I can't take the impression of my colleagues and colleagues who have been discussing the subject that we've achieved what we wanted by excluding these reports with the reserve and putting them in today's order as special reports, so I, here I personally wonder, I don't really know what we wanted with this and what's the difference except that we're directors and directors and prosecutors and VSTV, representatives of the VSTVs got out of their offices and brought them to this White Hall today to spend a day with us, to apologize, to see where we are, because we're essentially nothing to change, and all the conclusions that today, or suggestions, are adopted, it doesn't change anything at all. I am closest to what Mr. Novaković presented in his discussion, i.e. that we, and this may also be in the context of what Mr. Lovrinović proposes, are working together with the tužilaštvo's Office to amend and supplement the Law on Ravision or the like, with the tužilaštvo's Office which is also the subject of this Report, or opinions with the Reserve, so the question is, that's one of the vicious chains in which we enter, and the truth for the will of almost all or mainly all directors, the directors are the political appointed, elected person elected by the ruling coalition, which he sets out. And I will remind Mr. Bojić, who says that we have achieved the goal and that next year, surely every director, director, representative of the agency will make sure that the report is different than it is, we are discussing the 2016 report today, which means that in 2017, the report that we are going to discuss, not who knows who will be sitting here in 2019, is likely to be closer to this 2016 than this, to these conclusions of 2018, because they are probably in their practice, because people are just today brought to the White Hall to spend the day with us, they will probably not be able to change anything. That this is so, that nothing is fundamentally going to change, and that we have, here, also had a debate on the report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, so we have had one thematic special session on the situation in the judiciary and we have, like, aged something and changed, to show that we are actually cooperative and we want to change some of the conditions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and adopt some conclusions that remain a dead letter on paper. And when we adopted, when we didn't actually adopt this report of the famous VSTV because we waited a long time for Mr. Tegeltija to come back 74 from the safari, come down from the elephant and return to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and until he decided to show up in the White Hall for a long time we waited, and finally when Mr. Tegeltija showed up in the White Hall and when the most legislative body adopted the conclusion that he finally did, he did publicly and transparently available reports on the work of judges and prosecutors, the gentleman here listened elegantly, returned to his office and boom, sent us an email saying, "Who are you, what report?" You, the court, the executive, the judicial authority, bye-bye, that's not in line with this, with what you have, and you won't have what you want. And now the question arises – why do judges and prosecutors address us when they need to be equally ranked on fees, separate lives, transportation this, transport that, secretary, I don't know, lights, escorts, then address the Parliamentary Assembly and says we are not equal judicial, executive and judicial authority. And when we're looking, since it's known about each of us blood cells when we've called, whether we've been silent, whether we're silenced or whether we're, I don't know, this and that, for judges and prosecutors, we don't need to know anything because they're like untouchable. And as long as that's how it is when we have a person who runs any agency, any institution that tells us – who is you, nothing's going to change absolutely here and I think this was done like this to me today, because without these reports we wouldn't have a agenda. What we could have, we could have finished this by an hour, if some new practice had been introduced that we were discussing nothing, because nothing here is fundamentally going to change. The directors, directors, prosecutors will return to their offices, say – there we were, having a nice lunch, spending the day, there are some conclusions there, in 2019, of course some new kids will sit, everything stays the way they do. And as long as Bosnia and Herzegovina is not in these benches, regardless of the political and party commitment, the people who really want to deal with the reforms and the gentlemen who gave positive reviews to the Audit Office, I'm also giving positive assessments but if the essence of today's debate was that we're asking the Office for Audit whether you need some self-port, so we could have a nice drink with the representatives of the Audit Office and tell them – my people how much further we can help you, and not here for six hours we're discussing something that will eventually be a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23711	Thank you. Advocacy Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegation. You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23712	He's referring to my esteemed colleague, Salko Sokolović. I did not think, therefore, that the Chief Audit Service should forward, namely to call on the Court or the Prosecutor's Office, I said that, that it would make sense to think about changing, amending the Law on Audition in the context of strengthening measures, so to strengthen responsible persons' responsibility for possible failures, including possible criminal offences, and when the Main Audit Service comes across such material. It is not unknown that there are similar laws in neighbouring countries, that it interrupts, that the competent institutions then take over, and then the institutions are audited. It would significantly enhance the degree of responsibility. Normally that's a question to think about here. And at the same time, I want to say that, dear colleague Kožul is excellent, I mean, I have to say that in recent years it has been a significant strength and the Chief Audit Service and the Commission for Finance and the Budget of both Houses of Parliament and I very much respect these conclusions that have been made, in this sense I think it would not be a good idea for us to speak individually at this session today about all the conclusions, but for the House to decide that all the conclusions are being returned to the competent commission to formulate the unique conclusions that we would adopt in the next session of the House of Representatives. So much and thank you. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23713	Thank you. Borislav Bojić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23714	Well, to my dear colleague Maji, let me just say, well, you see, it wouldn't be appropriate for us all to have coffee with the Audit Service, if we had a 40-something coffee to increase their pressure, then we probably wouldn't be able to do our job, maybe it's better here in Parliament to say how we should improve the situation. However, I do think, fellow Members, that following these reserve reports, action plans will be carried out in each of these institutions with a regular number one remark, a way of implementing and removing that remark. And as parliamentarians, we have the right and the exercise of parliamentary oversight, so we will call on these representatives of the executive authorities, so that we may ask them, have you gentlemen made action plans? It is, to see what they look like, if there is an perpetrator, how it will be done. So, distinguished colleagues, with all due respect, don't take this the wrong way, but I think it's still effective what we're doing today, and I'm convinced that the executive authorities are going to do action plans, because it is ultimately their obligation to make an action plan and to act on that action plan, to address the shortcomings identified by the Chief Audit Service. So, I still think that, uh, I can and, of course, I don't mind having coffee but it would be really... that all the representatives of the executive authorities and us 40 drink coffee with the Main Audit Service, some just drink tea, probably you didn't, you were thinking about a date with them, you probably meant that. I don't want to increase their pressure, I think there's been a lot of pressure on them by these institutions to do as positive a report as possible, there's probably a variety of correspondence, arrangements, don't write me a report like this, or this, so I need to commend those who pointed to failures, and of course I insist when it comes to the executive authorities to make good action plans and to make progress after those action plans in the spending of public funds.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23715	Thank you. Representative Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23716	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, the false allegation applies, or perhaps more replicas, to fellow Maji Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, to the conclusion that this discussion has not achieved its goal today. I think that's what Mr. Novaković said in his presentation, to ask the question of what is the purpose of this discussion today. I would like to say, perhaps, at the end of the entire debate, that this is exactly the kind of discussion and debate that has taken place thanks to Mr Špirić and the SNSD Club's proposal, that the reserve reports, which may be at the edge of the negative reports, are being held a special debate in this House. I'll tell you that from experience, in previous years, when they were on the agenda of 80 and 100 audit reports, there were sessions when the question of whether there was even a quorum in the O.R. to talk about it. So there was absolutely no difference between positive and negative reports, and now, here, a distinction has already been made between that and this is the contribution of the SNSD as an opposition party in this Parliament. What happens next is not the responsibility of the opposition but of the position. This Parliament as a legislative body 76 can draw any conclusion that will be considered meaningful and that will achieve an even greater goal than this discussion today. But, of course, the question arises – what can this Parliament do, to say on the assumption that there is some congregational majority that exists when all of these people are also set up in the agencies that are being talked about today, so what can the congregation majority do if they have to propose some, let me say, more progressive conclusions in the direction of further action when we have audit reports where their staffs are and the audit reports are questionable? So, what can the SDS set, what can the proposal give for further action today when it has the Ministry of Security, has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has the SIPA, all where the audit reports are completely questionable? Not to mention the D.A.'s Office, which, perhaps, should be reached today by some conclusion from this House for further action and action when the prosecution is on this list. So, it's the absurdity of the current government in the previous period, and of course they may be partly right and those who say nothing will happen, but it happened to the very fact that today we singled out those who didn't fully comply with the law. Unlike those, of course, who were positive and therefore disagreed with that finding that nothing was done. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23717	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23718	It is possible for colleagues Marković that it is a positive one, whether, the SNSD shift, that you finally worked as a club, came, fortunately Mr. Džaferović does not preside, so now you come to the meetings. But why wasn't it in previous periods? Well, because you were the government, and your directors, directors, and I don't know the deputies or anything, so you didn't want to deal with the audit reports and the reviews of those reserve reports. Now you're the opposition, and now you're, of course, suggesting, when you're here, of course, and you want to discuss it. You say you don't know, or you doubt if there will be a majority, if, you said, there is a majority in these parliamentary benches. I, my colleague Marković, think if there isn't a majority that you as SNSD, like the Club, will jump in to support, as well as excises, that this majority that's here is nocturnal, to jump in and be like you were on a set of excise laws. Mr. Bojić, if you're married in your discussion, that you'll spend three minutes or two minutes as much as you've had, to talk about my coffee and coffee and tea and pressure proposals, I can tell you that I know that you're drinking coffee with many managers, so you could, since you've asked today whether you need any sports or help, absolutely even as chairman of the Joint Commission for Human Rights. I, too, Mr. Bojić, support the talk here, but what you've put out as if it were the main one, in fact, the shift of this whole thing is to open up the discussion and to give, to ask if some of them need a subport if that's all after a six-hour discussion, all we've achieved, then I really don't have any words. But you've been in these benches a lot longer, so you probably know that's how demagogy goes. What I still want to ask you is that you say that there will be some conclusions, suggestions, there will be action plans, we have a famous Reform Agenda, we have an Action Plan, which I don't even know where it came from, didn't move from a dead end, but here I want to ask you, we adopted in the last session as the most legislative body conclusion that we ask the VSTV to provide us with some data. VSTV is nice to pick up and say bye-bye. And now you're trying to convince me that, I'm not saying that all people are like that and all the leaders, that we're going to be looking for an action plan. WSTV and what they're planning to do and that he'll say 77 nicely – wow, thank you for asking me that, now I'm going to deliver you some action plan. [[the speaker is warned on time]] As I see that this dependent prosecution and the judiciary will be independent, I mean, it really can, it's a story for little kids, you can't convince me of 34 years old, maybe the kids before bed can, just I doubt it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23719	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković has a third one, so you do not have the right to make amends. Representative Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23720	I would only correct the false allegations of my colleague Marković, um, when it comes to the conclusions of the prosecution, I just remind us that we had a special session on the situation in the judiciary and that we referred about thirty conclusions of various and issues to the Prosecutor's Office and the VSTV of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but we never got an answer to those questions. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23721	Thank you. Representative Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23722	First, my colleague Bećirović, since it's shorter. So, it's true what you said, but precisely for these reasons, SNSD has been giving no support to the D.A.'s report recently, for the prosecution, their report on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, among other reasons, and while others are supporting and supporting it, today they take the right to speak to themselves that the prosecution should have done this or that, and they supported their reports and voted in favour of the budget item relating to the prosecution itself. As for your, uh, your replica, colleague Majo, my intention was not at all to confront you, nor to have any need to, but I want to tell you one thing, that even today's discussion was held in this House thanks to the SNSD, and the SNSD is a constructive opposition in this House. And not just for excises, we gave support for both the budget and some other things we thought was constructive to support no matter what we were the opposition. And of course, the position gives us the right to draw attention to other things, but I will say again, the further handling and resolution of this situation about these problematic audit reports is not opposition, but in position, which I think is clear to all of us in this room.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23723	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23724	Let me remind my colleague Marković, when he was the VSTV report, you weren't in this room at all because Mr Džaferović chaired it, so you didn't vote at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23725	Thank you. I don't see any more reports at this point. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. So with this, we've exhausted the debate from points 10 through 19. Moving to point 20, Ad. 20. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the pre-determined conclusion of the Independent Block Club, which reads: "The House of Representatives calls on the BiH Council of Ministers to meet the bottom with the competent entity institutions to check how much the retail margins of the BiH oil and oil distributors per 1 litre of fuel so that they can be legally restricted and all to be transferred to their ret and eased by the announced crowd for BiH citizens," issue: 01-02-1-2340/17, of 02.02.2018. The House College, acting as a committee, failed to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion. The consent report you received. There is no debate on this agenda point. Moving to point 21, Ad. 21. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parlame of the National Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017, issue: 05/1-50-19-273/18, dated 25.01.2018, and Working Plan of the Independent Committee of the Parlame of the Croatian National Assembly as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2018, issue: 05/1-50-13- 26-39-12/17, of 21.12.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23729	I don't have any special discussion, I really want to be on the basis of what's been going on all these years, in the hope that this cooperation will continue and that in the same way with a decent and good job, I want to congratulate him, because he's already been elected to the House of Peoples, as I hear it. So I believe this is a good thing and we're going to have a hard time finding a military commissioner like this in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23730	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Isaković, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23731	On behalf of the SBB Club, a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23732	I'm taking a 15-minute break at the SBB's cover-up. Can we keep going? Representative Hanka Vajzović, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23734	Thank you, Chairman. I'll be very brief. I didn't want to miss the opportunity, Mrs. Majkić commended the work of her colleague Šiljegović, so here's to not miss the opportunity and say, a unique opportunity, to fully agree. There would be much more to add about the work Šiljegović colleagues, I support in any case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23735	Hala. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23736	Thank you. I think it is necessary to point out that every club of MPs has the right to propose a candidate for a military commissioner and the fact that I don't think we have, that no one has used that right, that 80 of us have one proposal enough in itself to talk about the reputation Mr. Šiljegović enjoys and what we all think about his work. Also as a member of the Commission, the Joint Commission on Human Rights, which discusses the reports of the military commissioner, and as someone who attends all the sessions and the Commission and who has had the opportunity to look at these reports, give suggestions and talk to Mr Šiljegović at these Commission sessions, they can also confirm this from that aspect. I particularly consider it important, and we heard some of these things today, so this relationship to the legislative body, and I think Mr. Šiljegović and his Office, the work of the Gov Office, is exactly what kind of personification should be towards, according to both one and the other home. And even in some of my legislative activities when I needed information from Mr. Šiljegović on certain issues, or from his Office, I received them within a really record-breaking period, I think the next day or after two days and in a way that absolutely did not need to ask for additional information. So the SBB Club will definitely support this, but I think it is necessary to highlight these things, since unfortunately, we do not often have the opportunity to meet with such an approach to work and such an approach to the highest legislative authority in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23737	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasla-Vražalica-Devil, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23738	I support what my colleague Arnaut said, especially as a member of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, but also a member of the Commission on Gender Equality, where I had the opportunity in this mandate to meet a person who self-initiatedly sought out representatives and MPs and offered various solutions on gender equality issues and human rights issues in the domain of defence and security, but also on other issues. Since I am not a member of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, where Mr. Šiljegović is more attached to the Commission than to other committees, he is one of the examples that has made sure in this institution to reach each of us in any commission and to make himself available, introduce us to his work, because if you are not a member of the committee in which the gentleman participates you do not have a very good opportunity to get acquainted with his work. I want to praise him in this way and his entire team who has been at our disposal at all times and this kind of self-initiative attempt to establish coordination with MPs and MPs is certainly something that we should work on both other offices and institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23739	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23740	We haven't heard this many nice words, I can't remember, so for a start to realize that man is still alive, and then to realize that someone who...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23741	He's embarrassed, don't. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23742	All of us, whether, as a diagonal SNSD, so SBB, then DF, and SDP, and SDA also support, so whoever brings us together, we can call it an integral factor in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And, here, Mr. Šiljegović proves that some things are possible and that it is possible that, apart from the record, we agree on something else and achieve a consensus in this room, is it? There's so much, and we're going to support it, we didn't plan it, but here's if everyone supports it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23743	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 23. Ad. 23. Information on the eligibility of the decision on height, manner and procedure for the exercise of the right to compensation for transportation to work and transport from work adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers at the 111st session, held on 24.08.2017. – Proposer of the point: Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vagalica, number: 01-50-1-434-1/18, from 20.02.2018. This is the point we put in today's agenda of the material you've got. I'm opening a debate. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23745	I thank the chairman. Since I have delegated this item to the agenda and thank all those who voted to make this a part of the agenda. Therefore, the decision adopted by the Council of Ministers at its 111th session led to an unfair position of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in addition, as the most legislative body, we do not have the information which was managed by the Council of Ministers when it adopted this Decision, which factors were all taken into consideration in order to make this billing table, mileage of the distance of residence from the place of work and so on. So I'm going to try, since I have a short time, five minutes, to mathematically show what's written here, so that my colleagues and colleagues who haven't had a chance to get to know each other, that through the discussion we may come to some common conclusion that we would delegate to the Council of Ministers. They've established in their accounting methodology fees, I'm just asking my colleague, I can't...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23746	Please colleagues...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23747	Therefore, the calculation methodology on the amount of the transport fee to work and the job has two sides, one is the calculation of the daily fee and one is the calculation of the weekly fee. In this regard, the question arises how has this Council of Ministers reached a fictitious, cumulative provision for a daily fee to be charged up to 80 km, and 80 km from these weekly fees? What that means is 82 when you change the picture and, of course, they have established the maximum fixed fee limit of 300 KM, it would, for example, now mean that when you repaint this table and you take a calculation, someone whose place of work is more than 48 km away from the place of residence would be discriminated because of this model and because of the established ceiling of 300 KM it will not receive a real-use fee. So he spends more because he comes to work every day, but he's, he'll only get 300 KM. And the question is, who's going to make up for that sum he's crossing over 300 km? Article 3 (1) of the Decision, you set up 80 km, and you did not state in your explanation how you came that the weekly fee is up to 80 km. A person who works in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and travels 81 km to work and from work every day, that person gets less than a person who, for example, gets the same as a person who travels 60 km, or from the place of residence to the place of work 60 km. People, for example, police officers who work shifts and live 80 plus kilometers away from the place of work, their daily cost at their m calculated on the job and from work is 32 KM per day. If this person works shifts and has 15 shifts per month, his cost, the real cost is 470 KM. The upper limit is 300 that is paid out of this Decision, it spends 470 KM and questions whether this Decision wanted some people who, by the Constitution, are guaranteed that we need from all parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina to have people in jobs in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether, what was wanted to achieve, whether some who are remote from institutions are more absolutely required to give up their jobs because they cannot finance themselves. Also, the decision you made at the time did not enter into force at the time of the Excise Act and the question of justification arises, i.e. how much further they have now increased, increased the costs of persons travelling 80 plus km from the place of residence to the place of work. So, I would like the Minister of Finance, whom I have already addressed as a representative and the answer to the parliamentary question to the colleagues and colleagues in this act, to explain to me in what way they have come to this, do you, as a Council of Ministers, consider that there has been discrimination within Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions on the basis of this accounting? On the other hand, it is clear to me that we, as the most legislative body, have adopted an amendment to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina where public transport has been deleted. I personally believe that we, as the most legislative body here, have made a mistake, a catastrophic mistake because in this way in the cities where we live every day and see this pollution, we encourage people to use their cars, further polluting the environment, thus eliminating the public transport provisions and abolishing that public transport map. What does that mean? This means that people, we have introduced other discrimination, because we have some people who absolutely don't drive, they never passed a driver's exam and they don't drive, so the question is, in this table of yours that you've done here, someone, let's say, code from this institution, if he works in this institution and lives 2 km away from this institution, you pay him to get to work and get out of work 1.35 KM. Here's what I'm asking you - where does this person for a 1.35 KM buy a map of tram, trolleybus, get gas to come and go? So where is this math and where is this justification? I really hope that through this discussion we will come to some conclusion, because what is also attached to you in the materials is the position of the Ombudsman's institution, which I have been waiting for, here as a representative, for four long months, to send six ERs. What's that saying to me as agents? It tells me, i.e. it confirms the politicisation of the Ombudsman's institution for human rights, because they could not agree as a three-member composition on how to balance between us who are asking questions and those who have made this decision, and they have come to someone, let's say, a compromise solution where they propose what they propose in their recommendations, it is an amendment, that they approach the amendments to the law, and that they have not found discrimination because nowhere in Europe or 83 of the Council of Europe, the European Commission has not been confirmed that sometimes it is somewhere, i.e. the place of residence is considered discrimination. If it wasn't a subject anywhere it doesn't have to mean that the place of residence can't be discrimination, let's say what we have that someone doesn't drive a car, but is forced now to somehow, not use public transportation but to sit behind a wheel and drive, that it's not discrimination. And I really don't know, it's not clear to me by reading this, sitting with some people who understand what the Council of Ministers did, or the Ministry of Finance, that no one understands on what basis and what model this methodology of reckoning took place, so I hope the Minister of Education(?) to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23748	Thank you. Representative Hanka Vajzović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23749	Thank you, Chairman. If I understand correctly, my colleague Maja has overlooked another provision, it is again some kind of discrimination. Those who live, talk about city transport, who live 2 km away, and these air lines because the measure is taken in that way, they don't even have the right to transport, then the question is again of some health condition of someone's and who can, so here if you want and that's right here in this room, can you put on high heels and that 2 km of air lines that can be a lot more when it's trampled down the road, so they don't even have the right to any transportation fee, for that city transport. Well, here's the addition to what Maja was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23750	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23751	Thank you very much. First, I think this question can be seen twice. It can be seen from the point of view of relations with civil servants, tenants and MPs. We have a situation that fellow MPs are also in this Decision. And that's why sometimes it bothers me when someone says the most legislative body. Look, we are the most legislative body whose status issues determine the Council of Ministers by decision, we are the most legislative body to whom everyone, from a moment on, has not been able to provide information under the law that we have adopted. And it is not the Council of Ministers' responsibility, we are responsible here because our amendments to the law in the previous term have lost the independence most of the parliaments in Europe. We don't have that independence, and it's up to us. We should not be surprised, therefore, that the Council of Ministers will address our status issues with its decisions and in the future. And that's why I'm looking at this initiative with two aspects. One aspect is this part that my colleague Maja was talking about. Now, we can analyze whether anyone can go from 1.35, can't, whether it's okay to 30, over 30, to 80, over 80, etc., etc., where, of course, the Council of Ministers, 84, has arguments, which is why he suggested such a decision, which doesn't mean that we wouldn't find better arguments for a different decision. And that should be the result of this debate, some different and better decision, or decision that won't be discriminatory. This second aspect that we will probably not be dealing with today, and not just today, but in the future we will not be dealing with, and that is Parliament's financial independence and influence, means Parliament on this one, and not only this one, but also a number of other issues which unfortunately Parliament has left behind, and also to the Council of Ministers, above all, the Council of Ministers. I have advocated before, and today I am in favour of Parliament's top-secret fine political independence, because if it is possible that in the judiciary and in some others any story of finance is seen as a blow to the independence of that institution and the independence of that institution, as it is possible that this is not considered a blow to Parliament's independence. We are the only ones who have to be or are independent at all costs and under every condition. I didn't answer, of course, to complain, but only to realize that this debate today would make sense if it went two ways. One of whom is spoken by my colleague Maja and the other about whom I've just spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23752	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23753	This can happen to Mr Novaković in two directions, but in what I have proposed today, I have at least talked about parliamentarians and parliamentarians. So I absolutely didn't get into any of the reckonings. Why didn't I? I asked myself, for example, why the Council of Ministers in the first place, perhaps the minister would know the answer to that, and it took an analysis of the place of residence – the place of work. What does that mean for us MPs and MPs who come from other places? That means you have a paid separate life and you have paid apartments. And now you get because you have an additional right to this map, this week's ticket to go visit the family and return, and maybe four days already stay in Sarajevo where you work. And now the question arises: why was it not a place of residence and a place of work? So, you have all your status rights regarding a separate life and a paid apartment, but you're going to get this card or a ticket bill like we do living and working here. So that's one question to think about. On the other hand, Mr. Novaković, if we take the police officers I mentioned and live 80 km plus away from the place of work – the place of residence, they say, which are below, so seven acts under an independent inspector, they do not, by law, have no right to separate lives. And imagine now 80 plus, it can be 120 kilometers, that cop is driving in his shifts there and there, but he'll only get 300 KM. So, we as Parliamentarians and parliamentarians absolutely have nothing to complain about and what to consider when we talk about this, but people who are employed in institutions, some will say no, it's good that they work at all. I don't agree with that finding, yeah, there's a lot of unemployed people. Also, people who work in institutions should not now be made of them, so to speak, to poverty, to take away what is legally theirs, because according to the Constitution, every employee has the right to compensation for the costs of work and work. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23754	Thank you. 85 Now, we have a number of corrections to the wrong quote, so I don't know if we should finish these corrections, the minister has already asked, maybe he would help us in these discussions, if you agree that, here, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23755	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone in the O.R., and I hope to work well. Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you and I will only tell the facts and the way things are, and it is perfectly normal for you to suggest and decide. So, the first fact that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly passed the Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions that deleted the provision on mandatory application of the rules that transport costs are calculated for the use of public transport. It's the first fact, and it was 2015. The earlier model of accounting for this amendment was based on confirmation of the prices of authorised carriers and showed a number of shortcomings in practice, led to a number of problems, litigation of court disputes, permanent requests for opinions and interpretation of the provisions of the decision and other problems. The third fact is that the Office for the Audit of Institutions has repeatedly made recommendations in its consolidated report and has instructed that action be speeded up on the adoption of a new sublegal act, making sure that the new decision overcomes all observed deviations and ensures compliance with the principles of rational use of public funds, quotes. I guess it's a mistake to be in this room, so, uh, as Minister of Finance today, I've had a lot of these conversations about some things that absolutely to me as Minister of Finance, but I'm going to stick to this topic. This Decision is not an act of the Ministry of Finance but of a simple, unanimous decision adopted on the Council of Ministers and this model provides for the fees in question to be based on the amount of daily, or weekly fees towards the length of travel of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The amount of daily or weekly fees shall be determined on the basis of the distance of the place of employment from the place of employment, taking into account the number of kilometres from the place of work to the place of residence determined by the shortest traffic communication on the route of each employee. The amount of daily or weekly fees according to the length of travel of staff in institutions has been established in collaboration with professional services, primarily the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH. In proposing the Decision, to say the same, because it is often said that this was done without any consultations, opinions, and that this is a table, opinions have been drawn up from the Office for Law, the Office for Budget of the Ministry of Finance and the Independent Union of Employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Independent Union of State, Police Officers and Employees of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, the judicial authority and the public institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In his opinion, the independent trade union requested that a single criterion be applied when calculating the fee in question, regardless of the place of residence of the employee. Namely, in the original proposal that went, there was a provision for a city transport fee in Sarajevo, the Syndicate made observations and requested equal treatment for all employees because state institutions are not only located in Sarajevo, but also Tuzla, Banja Luka, Mostar, etc. The Council of Ministers respected the suggestion equally to everyone, conceptd the concept of a charge for transportation. The Ombudsmans for the protection of human rights have acted on the opposition of the Independent Union and have questioned the maximum compensation for transportation of 300 marks in their recommendation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The law which provides for a transport fee for the following principle. An employee of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions shall be entitled to compensation for the costs of transport to and from work unless the institutions have organised transport. Furthermore, what is important, the Ombudsman's opinion says there is no violation of the Law on Dent Early Discrimination. This topic has given rise to a lot of public attention, probably on this and buying all the possible points. This decision that was adopted showed what the table was saying, a savings of 750,000 marks, and the table was 86 I think, because you keep talking about the table and as insecure, the table is a contribution to the Decision and to all those opinions given in the adoption of this Decision. I repeat the decision was reached unanimously at the Council of Ministers, and the table is what should be done when anything is adopted, and it... shows how much who has the right to do what. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23756	Thank you, Minister. Representative Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23757	Well, to me, the form of correction is the only possibility that I can say that it's completely meaningless for us to discuss here the decision we don't have. I am enough, mathematically special, written that I know things from that decision. I can hear what else is going to be said about this in these 10 minutes, 15 minutes, but it's completely inappropriate and immaterially debated this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23758	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23759	I thank the chairman. These things that Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil said sounded very, very revolutionary, but I remember the debate about this Bill on 27th September 2015, Mr. Bevanda was there at the time, I have a very good memory, and now I've refreshed him and the results are as follows, and I remember the debate because we from the SBB pointed to danger, especially the emergency procedure. And then 27 MPs voted for an emergency procedure in this House, including 4 from the DF, Mr Komšić was not there. And this bill, I remind you, has once again made this possible, what Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-Devil is talking about, and Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-Devil voted for an emergency procedure. When it comes to the Proposal for Law 34 MPs in this House of Representatives, they voted in favour of the Bill proposal, including 4 from the DF Club, including Mrs Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, Mr Komšić was not the only one present. The abstentions on the proposal were none, and the abstentions on the bill were four, and you're going to hit those four were all four of the SBB Club. So, when we pointed out almost three years ago, first, that this shouldn't go into an emergency procedure, because if there's something that wants to be fixed, then it needs to be done through a regular procedure, then through the amendment phase, because we had some ideas about the amendment on how to make savings but not to damage civil servants, etc. They didn't listen to us including whether, all of these 27, including Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil and the bill. And that's why, at least, that revolted tone, you go back to the period of 27.09.2015. Used. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23760	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23761	First, I congratulate my colleague Arnaut because he, in addition to the legal section and the knowledge of the Rules of Procedure about the work of the House of Representatives, knows when to be revered, when not. That's one thing. The other thing, Mr. Arnaut, is whether I'm being revolved, does that sound like your thing to you, so I'm absolutely not well-revolved, and on the other hand, if you've listened to me carefully, and I see that you haven't, I've told you before the minister will talk to you – it's true that we, and I personally think, have made a disastrous mistake by adopting an amendment to the Law of Salaries and Rewards in the institutions. If I said so, I'm sorry, Mr Arnaut, I don't think I'm dealing with how you voted, so let me say in that discussion - but you know there's a SBB club that's already thought about it in advance, so I don't remember that you're at the time, and there's no record of it. And to remind you, I took exactly how we all voted at the 17th session, what it says, you were, and refrained from being SNSD and against you, against an emergency procedure. And it's all true, Mr. Arnaut, to yourself finely attach it to your annals when you write memoirs or what I know, but what we adopted and kicked out public transport as something that was written in the Law is absolutely not like me, maybe it's because you're Nostradamus in this room, maybe it gave you signs of what that decision would say later that your Minister of Transport and Communications adopted it, so to me as representatives back then it was not clear. People settle in the Ministry, what the minister is saying is unanimously adopted, it's true the Minister, only the Ministry of Finance has sent it, your team has been sitting and building and sending it to the Council of Ministers, and it's logical that the Council of Ministers adopts it unanimously when everyone has their own private, or official cars, you're using absolutely, and you have no idea what they are, what excises or what they're going to cause this a fee of 300 marks. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23762	Thank you. Representative Mensura Beganović, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23763	I thank the chairman. I will not deal with either the amount of compensation, nor the table given as a contribution to the decision on height, manner and procedure of exercising the right to compensation, I will just remind myself that all MPs and all delegates from both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly are also, almost all, civil servants and that this same decision applies to both MPs and delegates. I'm just going to say that the way and procedure of exercising rights is something that is, I don't know if you're aware of it, very incorrectly defined. Therefore, in order to achieve an agent or representative, either a delegate or a delegate, the right to refund the costs of arrival and to go to work, and the workplace is this Parliamentary Assembly, must bring a certified statement under criminal responsibility, certified by notaries or municipal authorities, to travel daily from place of residence to place of work and back. Such a decision, such a statement I can't make, nor will I ever make it, I don't think I can make it to the others who need it. Maybe those who are not 80 miles away have no problem so they haven't thought about it at all, but that is, the way and the course of the exercise of rights is very radically defined when this part is at issue. And I, on this Decision which you have given to the Commission for Administrative Affairs of the Parliamentary Assembly, have proposed to change it at least when it comes to MPs and delegates who have no obligation to come to work every day in this area, but have obligations as representatives and MPs and delegates both outside and outside Sarajevo, and in their place of work, at their electoral base, etc., etc., to continue not to problem it, it is a more well-known thing. So, I think that here we are equating the position of state officials of MPs and delegates, not entering 88 of that financial independence of the homes of one and the other,... colleague Novaković spoke, but I am talking about the unfair position of representatives and delegates within one and another Mr. Home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23764	Thank you very much. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23765	I'll just try to make things concrete and still try my colleague Bevanda to start thinking about doing something else. Namely, right here while I'm talking, I didn't fill out those papers, and I'm not taking it, so I didn't fill anything out, hand it over. Although, and now if this means the following -- to get here, I have to use two transports, there's no possibility of one at all, means specifically the sides above the Chinese embassy, these dangerous ones, and I'm looking at the camp. I have to get on the bus, get on the bus down to Kosevska Street, get out there, get on the tram, get on Maria's court, and so I can come back too, I have no other way. I've got a big reason why I can't go uphill, if you don't know him and I'm telling him in public... it's some of my health problems. It's four tram tickets or bus tickets. When I take it, Mr. Bevanda isn't yours to hear this, so I don't take it for a ride right away I said, so I didn't fill in and hand in what I did, but I'm quoting as an example, now, because physically I can't do it, walking up that hill, the air lines from here to my apartment is a mile and 800, but by transportation, so if I take a cab and I measure that route is 4 km and 800, not a kilometer and 800, but 4 km and 800. That's a huge difference. You know, running away from being paid for a monthly ticket, I don't understand why it gave up, a monthly ticket, so she's, I don't know, in Sarajevo 57 marks, 57 marks, so you can buy a monthly ticket and ride on the tram and the buses till she's willing. This distance that Mrs. Gasal is talking about you have permanent bus lines, I don't know, Mostar-Sarajevo, not once a day, but hebet times a day and it's known exactly how much that ticket costs back, tamte-bite. And every place has to do with Sarajevo and every place. I communicated the carriers can be signed monthly, means a contract for monthly tickets, amazingly even Banja Luka and Sarajevo, means a return day, every day if someone wants to drive, literally every day, or to Zenica every day. There's that 80 km, or to the Cavalry of that air line 40 km, it's not a road, it's an airway, or, here, to the Vitez of the Airline so much, there's a bus line. I think we should, because we're going to come here, I'm not saying whether it's right or wrong, but we're really coming into absurd situations, and about what Mrs. Gasal put out in her account, and she put it very precisely and correctly, it's true, we can't talk about it – you know the decision, the law. You have an example of Klinton in Congress American when they asked him why you made the decision, between legal and moral, I chose morally. Now it is moral to find a solution that will be the same for everyone, I am not telling us parliamentarians, but employees who are on the budget, which is from agencies, like this, the police, the services that serve us and so on. I think you should do it, because I don't believe there's going to be those savings as they say, because I know what they're doing, how they do, and what people bring. Believe me, I know, and I hope that I won't be able to show it here, that there will be some change, because then you'll see how much abuse there is. Don't forget that from here the air line to Lukavica is less than 2 km, look at the certificates, less than 2 km, as well as my Koševsky Hill, so look at the certificates you got. Don't forget that, so now I can dial it up, so you'll see what's going on, and they confirm it in municipalities you know the credentials. So it would be necessary to consider, at least consider, to find a moderity that one approach will be for everything, equal, and this per km, 89 especially for those in the city, is inappropriate because, I told you this example, it can't be without two transports, there's no possibility, or taxi, again the same comes to you, or twice as expensive, you can't possibly use your bill to cover travel costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23766	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Isaković, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23767	Thank you very much. I won't be long, I'll be very specific. So, I belong to those who aren't satisfied with this distribution and I'm not receiving anything because I didn't want to fill out a form that says that I plead and I'm confirming to the notary that I come to work every day. So, I don't come to work every day and I couldn't sign something like that and I don't take any compensation. And if I wasn't satisfied, then, it comes from the following fact – my coming under this Regulation from Zenica to here, so 72 km costs 19 marks. Only the toll comes 12 marks, I don't think it's, it doesn't make sense and it's something that's discriminatory. In my entrance, only comparisons of how different there is, in my entrance to the building, so the man in the Federation People's House had 13 sessions in three years, but now let's have a different story, has a separate life, so here in Sarajevo, because it's over 60 km, it's worth going back and forth. And now imagine you come here and you get 7 marks of difference, and someone has a separate life, so a paid apartment and plus four times comes. So that's obvious discrimination in terms of mileage. Why the mileage? They've been assigned up to 60 km. It's down to 80 km here. The pupils are somewhere between 70 and 80 km away and that's what got us. I would like to say that there should be some changes in this field, it doesn't tell me there should be something to pay, but our work in the Parliamentary Assembly is limited and by paying, let's say, these certain commissions, jobs that happen after hours, visits to embassies or meetings that happen in the afternoon, so I can only say that I don't have a bus and I can't come, and what now, I can't come and I can't work. So here I think we really need to change something. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23768	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23769	Thank you. Here's to what my colleague Gasal-Vražalica-Devil said, uh, that someone from the SBB was Nostradamus, away from it. Look at Mr. Đonlagić's discussion, so almost three years ago, and almost identical opinions given by the Ombudsman institution. And we discussed this at the club nearly three years ago, we saw these shortcomings, we pointed to them in the debate at the House, and we voted accordingly, and we voted only against it. And that's where Mr. Đonlagić says – we absolutely do not see an excuse for this document to come, especially not in this way without a commission procedure, where the competent commissions would give an opinion whether it is true that this assessment, as it is said, will not be, that there will be no need for additional funds to apply this law on 90 amendments to the law, whether that is so or not. Therefore, we do not see first and foremost the need and reason for this law to come only this way without a commission procedure, to come to Parliament for debate. It would be more correct if we were already at this session or at the very least if it had been announced that there would be one whole solution at the next session, etc. So when you look at it and look at this opinion of the Ombudsman, I think if you believe in predictions and Nostradamus it's one thing, but what it was then was one constant based on what we're doing here. So let's set ourselves up for every item of the agenda based on these analyses and discussions, and just because it turns out that we're right doesn't mean that any of us are Nostradamus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23770	Thank you. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, debate. You have the word of counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23771	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm not speaking on behalf of my intentions, so I have no intention of introducing any new privileges for MPs, but I would like to remind the MPs, some of the MPs who were in the last meeting of the Administrative Commission. I mean, if a good memory serves me, that Mr. Košarac and Mr. Drago Kalabić, who is no longer here, was not addressed to Mr. Bevanda, the Administrative Commission of both homes and then the Secretary of the Joint Service, so before that, Mr. Ferid Buljubašić was then a secretary, and the Administrative Commission was then made in fact a proposal for changes related to mileage, I think Mr. Košarac remembers it, I don't know, I'm not quite sure, but I remember very well Mr. Kalabić's comment when the issue of reducing, or increasing the mileage, which he said at the time – what did this increase from 60 to 80 km for representatives from Zenica. Mr. Isaković's vis-à-visus must have been someone nasty here. I remember it well, that moment, and I know that it was addressed then, perhaps even to me, probably because I often criticized the purchase of new cars and the reception of new people, because then there was a moratorium on employment, but I remember perfectly well that at the time Mr Bevanda, or the Minister of Finance, was no longer able to agree, I can no longer remember, but I know that the Administrative Commission and then the secretary were quite certain that it was their conclusion, our Parliamentarians. I didn't, of course I didn't sign up, nor did I intend to, but the viscous discussion of Mr. Isaković and what he said. The MPs, not only speaking about the woman, are very often on the occasion that, not only come to the commissions and when they go on the official road they come, therefore, by their own car. Of course, we don't drive cars from Parliament, we have embassy visits, we have visits to various agencies, I'm not sure that the representatives are in the same position, but I say again, I'm not asking for any absolute privilege, but the memory is very good, I remember the excellent session of the Administrative Commission, and thank Bog that I am no longer in that Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23772	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this point. Moving to point 24, 91 Ad. 24. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 14.12.2017, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parlame House of Representatives of the Croatian National Assembly of BiH (“The Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative calling on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to, no later than 30 days from the date of adoption of this initiative in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, to amend and supplement the Constitution of those cantons with the aim of ensuring the constitutional equality of Srbin, as well as to stop the canton, in which it has not been done so far, to specify and ensure constitutional equality of the Bosnian and Serbian languages, and Latin and Cyrillic," number: 01-50-15-54/17, read as follows: 01-50-1-2891/17 The House College has appointed a Constitutional Commission to consider the parliamentary initiative. In 1902, the Commission delivered its opinion. The commission supported the initiative and delivered the House to further procedure. I'm opening a debate. Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23774	I thank the chairman. I want to say a few sentences about this initiative, first of all, to say that there is a Middle Bosnian canton in the initial text and to explain why this is the case. So, when the initiative was created one of the tools was the web presentations of all cantons and in Central Bosnia no web presentation was updated, so the website was later established that Central Bosnia had fulfilled its obligations on this issue. And when I'm done with these two, three sentences, I'm still going to give the final version of this initiative, which I ask you on behalf of the SDP Club to support, where the Middle Bosnian Canton was left out. So first, let's solve this technical issue. As for the initiative, as I said, on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to invite you to support it, this is a sound initiative aimed at equality between people and languages and letters in all, in all areas, in all parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina wine. What is a disgrace to us in the Federation is the inequality of one of the three constituent nations, in addition to remaining unequal and unequal in all parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should support this initiative by fellow Bećirović and thus be classified on the other side of those whose inequality and discrimination is acceptable when it is not about the people from whom they come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23775	Thank you. Staša Košarac's representative, the debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23776	Thank you, Chairman. 92 I think there is no political party from Republika Srpska that does not share the view that definitely the status of Srbin in the Federation should be defined in view of the fact that many cantons in constitutional solutions have seen an unwarranted fact in a longer period of time that Srbin are not a constitutive people. It is true what Mr Magazinović said, that it is a shame of the Federation that the issue was not long ago arranged in the way it was arranged, I would say, in the other corner of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Republika Srpska, where according to the Constitution, a constituent people and Srbin and Bošnjak and Hravati. I understand we're tired, but I don't think we should throw. What I also think and believe is that the promoter of this initiative has a democratic and every other capacity precisely to open this issue in the institutions of the Federation and I think that the SDP and other political structures that are significant in the bodies, of course, as the position of the Federation should open the issue. I'm not sure if this is an initiative if it comes from this place, I'm not sure that cantons will treat this issue properly based on this House's initiative. We remain in the position that we are not satisfied with the status of Srbin in the Federation, that this is an open question, but I also believe that this model, which is offered today, is not the best model and I think this initiative will be completely inconclusive. We do not want to introduce a kind of model that would from this place refer to lower levels of government such demands, we believe, once again, that the real question is the Federal Parliament and I urge you as a propriety that energy and will, which I consider to be sincere, should be directed precisely at the Federal Parliament to talk about these issues and to ask for the involvement of cantonal institutions to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23777	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23778	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, not only am I not sure that this is a place that, in some way, will, therefore, agree or so to say, that in this initiative, the county is thought to change or resolve this question, if there is one, but I'm sure it can only be solved in the county parliaments. So, because the county has a constitution and it's their original jurisdiction that, it can't even, in any way, suggest or command a Federation. I'm not sure, I'm at the Constitutional Commission, they came to the last session I wasn't, I wasn't there, we asked at that first session of the Constitutional Commission, if I'm not mistaken, that the counties to which this relates deliver their opinion on the request of the Constitutional Commission. I do not know if it has been obtained to this session and what opinion it is and I have not seen it in the materials, but if it is already, and I am not sure, on the basis of which all the assumptions the initiative has come to this conclusion that it has not been done, but if this is already so and if, in some way, it will be supported today, then I propose one conclusion – that the counties that are not listed in the initiative to deliver information to the Parliamentary Assembly and the House of Representatives as it has been done with them, within 30 days. So, let's see how those counties that allegedly did this, according to the initiative's proposal, did it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23779	Thank you. 93 Representative Mirsad Mešić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23780	Thank you, ma'am. Well, I'm replicating Mr. Lovrinović, I'm actually a little surprised that he has the impression that something is being taken away from these cantons. Well, of course they're not being taken away, they're actually establishing democratic standards that are normal around the world, so they should be in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well. So, this initiative is not aimed at even the backdrop of who, it is simply looking for ways to resolve the equality of the people and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in all its territory, and especially where there is an ecldential violation of the right to national expression, such as in the cantons listed in this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23781	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23782	kolega Mešiću, I have not said in any sentence that anything is being taken away from these cantons with this initiative, I just said that I do not know why the motioner came to such conclusions. So what is this information that he is ruling, what are these mechanisms, what are these institutions, what are these places, or what did he mean by this initiative? So, I didn't say to be taken away, I'm just not sure that the valid information is available, but okay, he has the right to think about being informed enough, so I suggested the conclusion to see how some other counties that aren't listed here solved it, I didn't say anything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23783	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23784	The Honorable Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives who supported this proposal unanimously. I think that by adopting this proposal, we are sending an important message to the future, and I think that the message of the highest legislative authority, the House of Representatives in this case, is not insignificant at all. All authorities at all levels need to do what is in their power to truly ensure the equality of all citizens and peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I, here, did not mind as an SDP MP, as a Bošnjak, suggesting that our neighbours, in this case in the Federation of BiH entity, be fully equal in all cantons. That part of the work we did in all six cantons, in four cantons it hasn't been done yet. It's not something anyone can boast about. And in that sense, I expect today, or tonight, to unanimously support this proposal. 94 On the question – as we have established, we have checked not only the web pages then, but we have also received the texts of the constitution in these four cantons and found that these constitutions have not yet implemented what should be, and that is the full constitutional equality of these three constituent peoples, and I think we must conclude and implement Decision Sejdiu-Finci, which concerns the question of the others, then the question of language and letters. There's no reason we shouldn't end it. So this proposal refers to the equality of peoples, languages and letters. My opinion, I say it publicly, is that we should attack injustice and inequality in this country wherever we see it, in every place. Today, I was talking about an injustice committed to the Islamic community, which is the only one that has no contract with the state. Why don't we treat it the same way? In countless sessions, I spoke of respecting every nation’s right to language, including the right to Bosnian. At some of the next sessions, I will talk about how to protect, here, and the Croatian people, and we will discuss it. Today we're talking about this, and I expect that we really find both political and human forces to put these things in order. In that sense, I said that at the Constitutional Commission session, I don't think this proposal solves everything, but I am convinced that this is a step forward in a positive direction. When the issue of equality of all citizens and peoples in this country is resolved normably, the second part of the job remains, which is to live in practice. When that will take place in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I guess this mandate and these MPs can contribute to that direction. And I think we should all try, in the environments where we can influence, to fix these things, in the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in that sense, we should also understand this proposal to send a positive message that we are ready to defend not only the interests of the people from which we come, but also our neighbors with whom we live. Such a message needs Bosnia and Herzegovina, needs all people, we need to find these readinesss. It may be unusual that I talk about it five, six months before the elections, when many think differently, but in this country there are elections every year, either pedestal or direct elections, so let's not just look at these things, let's find both human and political courage to step out and fix things in this country by not getting rights from anyone, and by guaranteeing people what they belong to them.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23785	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23786	I have carefully heard here that in one of the next meetings of my colleagues, Bećirović will also take care of the Croatian people. I am pleased, I hope it will be a question of the implementation of the Constitutional Court ruling concerning legitimate representation in homes, and in this building as regards the House of Peoples, as well as in the Presidency. So far you've been on the subject, uh, if you're taking care of it like you've done so far, please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23787	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23788	So, when I talked about the arguments, of course, I refer to Mr. Bećirović to correct his false allegations, perhaps somewhat Mr. Magazinović, because he also presented the initiative, I don't know what, but here's the thing. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23789	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23790	You're team-acting, yes. So, which arguments you handled when you said that in these counties, which you stated in the initiative, there is therefore some discrimination and constitutional inequality and when it comes to language. You didn't say it was an equal Serbian language in the Sarajevo Canton, so here's why I'm waiting for the answer to see this conclusion if it passes. On the other hand, you are wrong that Central Bosnia has fulfilled this, if you are talking about language, because Central Bosnia has a curricula and a programme in Croatian and Bosnian, so there is no Serbian. But you fell for my story on the Constitutional Commission when I told you that we have the vice president of the Serb people's assembly and that we have a minister from the Serbian people's government. So, you haven't checked, you've just been running some of your familiar information or misinformation, so you haven't established your initiative on arguments, and here I haven't got them since this presentation, so I'd like that conclusion to be adopted even to see how the other counties did it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23791	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23792	I came into the situation to choose words when I replicate my fellow Lovrinović, because he somehow on some other business that we do together deserves my sympathy and then just when I start to accept him then he screws up on things like this, but I'm still trying to find words to address him for the reasons of these good things that we do together in some commissions, etc. So I sincerely hope, colleague Lovrinović, that you do not dispute the fact that there are cantons in which all nations are not equal and equal. I sincerely hope that you do not dispute that there is a stop to a canton that lacks a people, a language, a letter. So that's a fact. As it is in Sarajevo, we'll take it together and we'll read it, and I can tell you that my daughter, who goes to elementary school, is learning Cyrillic, which is what children of her age don't do in cantons that we're talking about, for starters, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23793	Are you sure? You're not sure...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23794	There's Cyrillic learning everywhere, but it doesn't matter. Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23795	Thank you very much. First of all, we can look at this initiative from a number of angles If we look at it from the angle of applying the Constitutional Court's decision, and in the way it was applied where it was applied, then it's clear that there's a big difference between the Constitutional Court's decision where it's applied from its purpose, or from that decision, but it's unequivocal that there's a far greater difference where it's not applied at all. The fact is that these constitutions are not in line with the Constitutional Court's decision and it should have been done long ago. And we here as the House of Representatives of this initiative are actually expressing our position that we call upon to do so. I have to say that the attitude we call upon will not oblige anyone, nor will many of the attitudes we have taken here, the calls, etc., have not obliged anyone, and probably if we adopt this initiative nothing will essentially change, but it wants one thing to be pure, which is that this House has called on those who are competent to do so, to do so. And I think we should support it if we look at it this way. Why am I a skeptic that this will have a final epilogue in constitutional changes? First, because the period of 30 days is unrealistic, to change the constitution of some kind within 30 days we know it's not real, look out, it's not realistic or a much longer period of 30 days. And when I vote on this, I won't pay attention to this aspect, which is how much this decision will be respected in this initiative as it says, because I'm sure it won't be respected in 30 days, I'm sure it's impossible to find a two-thirds majority in cantons today to change the constitution, even in this year it's impossible. If we view this as SDP's pre-election story, it's, and it's legitimate, it's a legitimate story, it's consistent with their political views, some will say yes, some isn't, but in any case it's legitimate. The interest of the Serbian people is to be fully equal in the constitutions in all 10 cantons and in both entities, so it is unequivocally our interest. And that's why I think it's worth it, the fact that we support this initiative, and the realisation of the initiative in practice is something quite different, the experience teaches us that it's a much harder and far harder way than the adoption of the initiative itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23796	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Borjana Krišto, the chairman of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23797	Thank you very much. I'd be glad if these weren't initiatives in this way, so I'd see them as something that's someone's political attitude, that there's something to talk about, but we really don't get to what we're after. I don't want to challenge the consistency of any nation in any space. Here we need to separate the fact that there are pans brought by the county, or cantons, that there is a Federation Constitution, in which they are composed, that the Federation as part of Bosnia and Herzegovina was the Federation of Bosniaks and Hrvat and that, as the colleague said, the constitutionality of the people in the whole area of the Serb people should also be as a constituent people in the whole Federation, including cantons. Here this initiative, as counterpart Nikola Lovrinović said, does not distinguish, it does not talk about whether real consistency in terms of decision is implemented in certain ways, here I will not say in all cantons. I can say that in the county from which I come, Srbin are a constituent people. In the canton, Srbin are headed by their Serb-led vice president, who was proposed by legitimate representatives of the Serb people. They have their own representatives, have their three 97 ministers in the government, meaning everything in accordance with the national structure of the population and the list of how the constitution does it. What am I saying? I would really like to not even change the maybe of some constitution, and in some institutions, such as the Federation, it to live in the real sense, even when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of selecting legitimate representatives of constituent peoples, but we cannot achieve it in either way or another way. And I'm still glad that there is, meaning, also the county or cantons that are truly not implemented in a formal legal sense, which is not a change in the constitution, the constitutionality of the people in these areas is being implemented. Regardless of this, the initiative you have led, it is not really something that it will, but it will be said by fellow MPs, which will be binding on any legislative body. So, it is the highest political and legal act of one county, one entity, one state, it is known to be brought, to which procedures, etc., and I would like to believe that the change will come as soon as possible, first and foremost, the Constitution of BiH, according to which it will be arranged as a state of constitutionally equal peoples of Hrvat, Bošnjak, Srbin and other citizens living in it, and then in all other levels of government that its constituents are, starting from entity to county and canton. I also wanted to, but I gave up on the replica, and I also asked you if you think about helping us or defending us, not as representatives of the Croatian people, but all of us, I would like to thank you in advance for that, because representatives of the Croatian people have their representatives and their envoys, I believe that also representatives of the Serbian people, as well as other people who will know how to fight, and we only need to respect each other and thus show our sincere attitudes and the right face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23798	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Mešić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23799	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll look back on Mrs. Chairman's exposure. With one part of her presentation, I agree, especially in the desire for the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the rest of them to be equal and that we should do so. But Mrs. Krišto, you forget about it, and you're troublesome about the political position of the SDP that says it should happen, and as a consequence of such a political attitude, we have this initiative, and you're now having this problem and calling it some kind of political project, and there's no basis for any decision being made in this House. Well, of course political views are also a decision for initiatives, legislation and everything else. So, I invite you to make such beautiful wishes that you have made as an authority in these cantons make an effort to stop you from getting these things that you say happen in practice and that it is not an exception, but actually a rule that has been established by the constitutional obligations of the canton. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23800	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23801	Thank you. So what we're talking about is not political but a civilization issue, and I prefer that we differ on these issues rather than on some day-to-day political issue. Another thing, those who are promoters of European values should certainly support this, because this is also promoting European values where all are equal and equal. The constitutionality must not depend on your or any good will, and therefore the message is that it is necessary to amend the Constitution and that it is written in the Constitution, rather than with someone agreed. I, saving time, and I see that there are many replicas, would just quote BiH Presidency Chairman Dragan Čović, who is commenting on what we are talking about today, much more mature and wiser than in previous discussions, he said – as I think of Hrvat and everything I speak of Hrvat in the same way I think of the Bosniak people in those areas where they are minorities, and I also think of the Serbian people in areas like the Croatians. I don't know what he thinks, but the man very maturely commented on it unlike these discussions of yours. And he says, when are we going to solve this question I don't know but I am for it to be put on the table. So, if you'd reacted like this, it would have been European. And to be clear, this is not an initiative that will force someone when you bring IKEA down, as you promised, that IKEA writes with Cyrillic - no, but that everyone in the Constitution is equal - yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23802	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23803	Well, here's the explanation. One of the colleagues opened this dilemma – from where, why these four. One of the commitments recently adopted when it comes to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina in this new Council of Europe report in Article 12, I think that this is precisely what the colleagues of the SDP used as the occasion, so in some ways they only modified it, but that is the essence, it is said that amendments to the cantonal constitutions are needed to guarantee the status of constitutive peoples, constitutive peoples, Srbin who live there. So, with this brief explanation, I think that this initiative should be accepted and that we should appeal to these cantonal congregations that have the mandate and have the authority to do this and that we do not need to go further around this part to prove ourselves. It is right that all those who say that this question is important and that it should be treated. Now what the technique is, the technique is that we send it out of here to those whose job it is, to make that kind of commitment, to say that it's a commitment that we and as a state took over from the Council of Europe and to end that discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23804	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23805	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. It's a replica to you. I don't know where we are now, which we have sworn to here, I don't know what we're talking about here. If the Constitution or the Dayton Peace Agreement accurately states – the equality of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and citizens, which we are now talking about. He's 99 above all the constitutions in this country, he's above the entity constitution and above the county constitution. The fact that these constitutions are entities, cantons, because there is no county there, does not say in the Dayton Peace Agreement or the Treaty, Canton County, so that no one will immediately rise to give me a replica, which they have brought to me by such constitutions, is proof that the relapse of what we had during the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that we do not again have a replica, aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina, means both, what they were bringing these constitutions, is, as we say, the problem of that time. Let us who want to walk towards the European Union, who want to respect... those who have long ago solved, take a step and show good will that we are willing to respect every personality regardless of ideological, national, religious, racial, full, and however you wish, commitment. And that applies to peoples, nations, national minorities, etc. I'm asking you to let us do this effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23806	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23807	Correction of the wrong allegations to you chair. First of all, I congratulate the SDP on this initiative and it really is a civilization issue. But what you brought out during your discussion is that you said they were satisfied, whether, the constituent nations in Canton 10 and you listed some political positions, so they are politically constitutional. So, you can't talk to the HDZ who for 25 years in Canton 10, so in Livn, you're a predominant government because there's a SNSD chairman and a SDA one on this or in that position, that you've satisfied this consistency that your SDP colleagues are talking about in this initiative. So that's not true. Right, you did it to form power and to match what you've hung up on. However, when you mention the education system, I studied in this Canton 10 and I studied according to the Croatian plan and programme, and then we had to know how much goat in Zagreb gives milk, if there is milk in Sarajevo we should not know anything, nor have we ever learned about the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, we spoke in the original Croatian language, nobody ever mentioned any other language, Bosnian and Serbian, we didn't even learn Cyrillic, we only learned Latin. Did you then introduce a Cyrillic now this is another topic, but the educational system and which the lecturings are chosen and put in place, so that's a fundamental question. If you respect what the SDP is proposing we bring to this absolutely, then, of course, a new, new area is opening up in which it can be acted to really satisfy this consistency of all peoples. You also in your address, in your discussion you say that you support... I think that you, Mrs. Krišto, are going the other way, someone who comes with a bill of elections that you had, and you come from a canton where you didn't make sure that the equality of all citizens and peoples was satisfied, and you're asking for some of your legitimacy to be respected. or equality, that's the other way around. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Then when you show that in the cantons in which you have ruled for 25 years, you are truly giving equality and... to every citizen and to a representative of the people then perhaps there will be hearing what you suggest. [[You're warning the speaker on time.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23808	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23809	I'm not going to make it right, I'm just going to supplement the allegations of my colleagues, Magazinović, and in some ways this is also about what my colleague, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, was saying. The constitution and equality of the people are not just a floscule and a question of one's goodwill, it's a sublime constitutional principle. It is therefore necessary not only to change the constitutions, federal and others, but also to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning them.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23810	Thank you. Advocacy of Diana Zelenika, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23811	Thank you. Oh, here, briefly, I didn't... discuss whether to answer or comment this way. Although I am not a lawyer, I know that defacto and dejour is not the same, and I have long referred to all the palitarian or partial solutions except for the Constitution of BiH, which is in itself discriminatory. It is here, so not just four cantons or county as we say, but the implementation of all of it, or the constitutionality of the people, so if you want both Annex VII and Republika Srpska. We just touched the Federation here, and we're not talking too much about Republika Srpska and the language, etc. For those who say that no constitutionality has been respected in Herzegovic-Neretva County and that no language is taught I will say that my child has also taught Cyrillic and taught Emina from Aleksa Šantić, as I have done. gospođica Prlić should be asked, maybe she wasn't in class when she was learning, when she was in class. As far as European values are concerned, they are taken only partially as they correspond to them, sometimes part of the Reform Agenda is interpreted in a variety of ways, there were speeches, sometimes quite different. I am a fighter for the equality and consistency of all nations but in the space of all Bosnia and Herzegovina, but if you want both defacto and dejour. As for the IKEA he mentioned, the easiest thing to do is to get out of context after a sleepless night of a word, when you want to, in a way, suggest something nice in the environment you live in instead of ratting on a weapon is someone's sin. ... tell you that it's a colleague from OHR, it's her idea, she's gone here, I wish she was there, she's expressed that wish. I told myself I loved being the voice of the people, so I said her wish and respect. Perhaps some would prefer that I mentioned it... for artificial eyelashes and artists, etc., or if they didn't want something nice and for small money to make their surroundings beautiful then they'd invite them to go to endocrinologists, especially if they were women, because they might have excess male sex hormones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23812	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, rectification of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23813	I think from these discussions, there's a situation where smoke bombs are being dropped again to cloud the essence of what we're discussing. So before we end this 101 point agenda very clearly and precisely to say what we're pleading for. We declare whether we are ready to take a political stance here in the House of Representatives and to call on those who have not yet done so to ensure precisely in the constitutions of these four cantons the full equality of all constituent peoples. To do the same when it comes to language equality and letter equality. And that's what we're voting on. I will Zaključić – with principles and principles there is no gambling.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23814	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23815	I thank the chairman. Well, I waited aimly, uh, to say the end of the debate, and I only applied when I saw that there was no one else registered to see if I was right about the noma that I noticed somewhere in the middle, because it's amazing that we're discussing this much of a question that can't have two answers. So the basic question is and the answer can only be one that all should be equal in exercising their rights on every inch of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. And what I saw and what was indicative of me, and I noticed it because of the statement, I think that your SDP vice president Lana Prlić, who said, this one, and I quote -- namely HDZ BiH, in agreement with the SDA, supported the budget only on condition that she no longer mentions the joint criminal enterprise, not to mention more Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian languages. It has been made public but everyone is silent about it, BiH SDP Vice-President Lana Prlić said a few days ago. I thought it was a tense statement, uh, but considering that no one from the SDA reported today I now suddenly believe in this statement by Ms. or Mrs. Prlić. And that's why I waited till the very end not to run into myself. And it was only when it was clear that no one would answer again that I pressed this key, uh, and now I think there's no dilemma here about Mrs. Prlić's statement. And I think we really need to take this seriously right now. And I apologize to my SDP colleagues for those breaks we asked for today, because maybe we should have opened this question earlier in the day, and since it's already open, I think it's gonna take a lot of answers here, because maybe they didn't just agree on the budget. And I hope that Mrs. Prlić, and all those who have some indication of these arrangements, will have something else to say in the coming days. And here I am, back to what Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-Devil said, neither am I Nostradamus but 2 and 2 is 4. And as it was clear to me 2.5 years ago that what Mr. Bevanda suggested was wrong, and then Mr. Đonlagić spoke against that law and we voted against that law, so we now see that 2+2 is equal to 4. Doesn't mean someone nostradamus is just because he knows, uh, coloring some basic stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23816	Thank you very much. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, debate. You have the word, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23817	Thank you. 102 Well, you know, I'm really embarrassed that a single elemental question like this provokes or causes such collarized attitudes and that there are a lot of insinuations here, and even a lot of cynicism and inadmissible discussions about this issue that simply falls into the order of the elemental democratic issues. But when we see the relationship and the high education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when we see that the law that I have proposed is the Law on the Amendment of the Law on Higher Education, when we see what the care is, under quotes, about young people, when we see what it is like to care about young people not having a chance to learn what they need to learn, which is a complete destruction of the higher education system on stage, and I'm sure that even at these lower levels nothing is better, I'm actually not surprised at the kind of debate that we've had the opportunity to witness. I just can't figure it out, but make sure it comes back, so you turn it down again, it's gonna come back to this high house of the bill on amending the Law on Higher Education, because I'm not going to accept the fact that we want to accept what Europe has told us in a stupid way, that everything is apolytic, so here's the politicized question of elemental things.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23818	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 25, Ad. 25. A review of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, Salko Sokolović and Sadik Ahmetović, submitted on 17 January 2018, which reads: "To this point in Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), we submit a representative initiative to determine the maximum retail margin of the distribution of oil and oil de rivats", number: 01-50-1-194/18 The House College has appointed a Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development to consider the parliamentary initiative. The competent History of Renaissance delivered its opinion on 19.02.2018. The commission supported, with the agreement of the proposer, the modified initiative, which now reads: "This way we ask the Council of Ministers to check together with the competent entity institutions how much the retail margins of oil and oil distributors in Bosnia and Herzegovina per litre of fuel, and to find the possibility to transfer part of the weight of the announced purchase to the oil and oil distributors, not just to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, after a published check." Representative Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23820	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Therefore, the Members' Club considers that the state should and must be involved in this issue. The first thing is that some of the information we have in public, which says that one liter of fuel says that the price of this margin, i.e. a liter of fuel, is somewhere, someone says 20, 30, someone's 40 fening. We think that the state should be involved in the sense, in the first part, so that it explores how much the actual margin is, and that then the state reacts and makes the highest price of the margin, to limit it, and that the burden, that is, is some kind of difference to transfer the burden of 103 of these additions to those who earn the most. We thank the competent commission, here, who understood and accepted this as such. It's been two months, or three months since we've talked about this adoption of excise duties we haven't been able to stop and stop the excises... the way they stop, they've adopted, but here, this can be a step in which we expect governments, to show some kind of now, I'd say, even more responsible relationship and more responsible approach. So we call on you to support this initiative. And we had one last session, and we had one of the conclusions that was approximately identical to this initiative, and we expect that, here, and today, after this vote, we might get this positive attitude. But all in all, the institutions, Parliament, governments should, in this way, be seriously and responsibly involved in this topic, so in this story and give one of their kind of answers in the sense that they simply show that they understand what is going on on in the Bosnia and Herzegovina market and that they give some of their answers to those who are trying to abuse such a situation, that it simply won't go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23821	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, breaking up. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23822	I just need some clarifications so I can make this clear at all. First, what are we going to plead about? Namely, the initiative we got here speaks, there are two parts, one that says that the Council of Ministers together with the competent institutions will determine how many retail margins oil and oil derivatives are. That'll get us the data. The second part of the niciative says the same could be legally restricted. I think that's where we come into the problem, that we can't limit the margins of distributors here, it's about free price formation, oh, of course, offer and search on the market, and that, with all our will and suggestions of the initiative, but also all of us who would support this, we won't get the result. Especially when it comes to the commission's opinion, this means the commission is also asking to check the amount of retail margins per litre, and to find an opportunity after the check to transfer some of the burden... of the collection to oil distributors. I mean a pretty story without any effects. I'd like the motioner of the initiative at this stage to limit the information on how many retail oil margins and oil derivatives are, and then when we get that information to get into the debate about it and see if we have any mechanisms to transfer. I say we don't have mechanisms except for the goodwill of a distributor that will be highlighted when oil sales fall. If there is no decline in oil sales normally that there will be no margin limit, it is quite clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23823	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Isaković, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23824	Thank you, Chairman. So what is evident is that we have at gas stations prices that are far higher than what is foreseen by excise duties and that is what concerns and what needs to be dealt with by this Parliament. However, I do not think this Parliament has the authority to dictate prices, dictating 104 prices in another past system was possible, but in this system where free price formation is not possible. We are indeed witnessing that the fuels have been collected even before excise duty, and then even more, so today you have a situation that from the average price of fuel before the excise duty of stamp and 80, where there was to be a selling price of 2 stamps and 4 or 2 stamps and 6, we have today 2 stamps and 20, 2 stamps and 28 today I saw coming from Zenica to Sarajevo, it's a huge number. So, these distributors aren't geniuses who have earned their genius ideas something, but they've earned, is, extra... someone that obviously the market hasn't articulated. And what can we do here? So it's possible that the state is really intervening, but in one completely different way, with one strategy, and that strategy would be viewed in the next -- if it had stock reserves and intervened in the market with stock reserves. It is that method that is acceptable in the west and everywhere else where the market is, the free market for price formation. Today, however, we have no situation that the Council of Ministers has prepared such a position in which it can emerge from such a strategy. So I think that this issue should be referred to the Council of Ministers and that the Council of Ministers should find the possibility and way that the free formation of prices, i.e. the savagery of oil and petroleum products, should be regulated and put into frameworks that are logical. I know that oil and petroleum products are very large. Today if you had oil in yours, I'd say, the alley and, therefore, processed and that you were pouring it directly into the car you should pay somewhere for the brand and the 5 tax dollars to the state. So it's really big, but these margins aren't logical. According to this logic, I support my colleagues that this is a problem that needs to be solved but I also think that dictating prices today in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not possible because price formation, free price formation, or the market does not accept such a variant, but that the Council of Ministers must have a strategy for this and that it must articulate its tools, which are at its disposal, that is certain. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23825	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23826	Thank you. I've talked a lot about this initiative on the board, and now I'm going to try, here goes Minister Bevanda, but I hope he gets a stenogram and read it. I think that here we should make a small change in the initiative and go towards legal framework, that is, the adoption of a law that limits maximum in certain areas, means maximum rye. You have this example in the democratic Europe we are heading towards. Let's say in Germany it's exactly legally framed which is the last one, I'm talking about the trade margin, according to the food consumer, which is for clothes, which is for shoes, defined, I'm talking about maximum. And then from zero to maximum, traders compete as they can work. Now about oil and oil derivatives. It has a wonderful analysis in the Independent paper of Banja Luka related to oil and oil prices. That analysis shows that the current margin is about 40% on oil and oil derivatives, you heard 40% well. That's inappropriate. It's easy to get to this bill. It's a stock exchange, stock exchange has its price and barrel of oil costs so much, barrels of oil in our consumption cost, compared to the stock market when it buys, multiple more. I agree with 105 fenings or stamps and 5 fenings to the state, but where are the other brands and 21, stamps and 21. This isn't price control, it's limiting the maximum margin and nothing else. 105 I've set two examples on the commission, and now I'm going to put them here, and you're going to grab your head a little bit. Does anyone know how much bread is sold in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including pastries, muffins, bakeries, bureks and anything else. In... bread 4.5 million a day, the age it's about a century is 15 fencing. It's a year's worth, watch out, 250 million marks. If anyone's ever calculated it, take away the digitrons and calculate, 250 million, and everyone complains that bakers can barely survive. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I said well, 250 million. Then it's not a little big profit on a century-old bread of 15 fening if it's won a year's 250 million marks, etc. No Niko's gonna deal with the team. In this country it is smarter to deal with whether I am a Srbin, a Hrvat or a Bošnjak, whether my child is going to a school like this, whether I have that too, than the future of our country and children. And the future is created only through a positive atmosphere in the economy and by no means different. What we're going to say to the nation is not going to give employment to the child, that we're going to say that we know one, another letter, someone will come up with a third, why don't the Rom have their own right, not to mention the rusin, the Rus, the Ukrajinac, the Čes, the Poljak2, all these minorities we have, the Makedonac, the Albanac, that I don't forget, that I'm not counting anymore. Let me, Mrs. Krišto, finish up, let me create what you say, the atmosphere of the positive climate. And I recommend that those who have proposed this try to make an exception and ask to go into legal frames through limiting maximum margins. We have our neighbours in Croatia who, when the oilers began to raise prices suddenly, intervened with reserves. We don't have them, we don't have them, we have terminals, we have no reserves, we have railways, we can't transport oil by rail, we have tanks. And that's only because we have countless black passages where those who smuggle oil and oil derivatives pass. I told you when we talked about excise duties, an example of Banja Luka, cities that have the largest number of registered vehicles, Sarajevo 165,000. When you take to spend only half a tank per month you get a number of Xs, when you take the distribution reports at gas stations in Sarajevo you get that from that X several times less. Cars go perpetual and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23828	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23829	Thank you. So, I have to admit that I'm not some special expert in this kind of business, but here I am a representative, so I have the right to talk about a subject that I don't understand enough. The only thing that bothers me logically from these discussions that I've heard here from my colleagues, who I think are more professional in this business than I am, is that it can't affect margins, because that's the real market. So that's what I figured out in these ten minutes here, but then I wonder why my colleague's recommending this initiative hasn't thought about the wholesale margins, so why, uh, is he protecting outside importers or suppliers of that fuel? So, if we can influence retail, we can also influence wholesale logic. Is that possible or impossible, too? Then obviously the initiative is impossible, isn't it? 106
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23830	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23831	Short. Well, I agree that the first part of the initiative is undeniable, the second is problematic in terms of implementation, but I thank the proposings who proposed this and put this issue into Parliament, even this way. There are, something Isaković said, as well as other colleagues, there are ways to possibly do something, and if it were in line with the measures allowed, so it was important, here we were discussing possible inspection supervision that would determine whether there was an abuse in the application of the Excise Act, that any public would report to distributors that made extra profits, etc. But in any case, the initiative is very acceptable, while perhaps here all together, and above all, the proposings, which I once again commend on this initiative, make it realistic. Well, perhaps behind this first part could, instead of the legal restriction that we all know is not possible, be said in this second part of the initiative – and the Council of Ministers should report on possible measures to prevent abuses in the implementation of the Excise Act. I think something like that would be acceptable, realistic, and I think everyone would support it. And if there were abuses, here and colleagues talked about it, but the latest information, I also asked a parliamentary question, they talk about that there are abuses of gas distributors, that there are even violations of the Personal Data Protection Act where, where distributors are asking for a unique home number and other data from those who buy gas for their own needs, or for households, which are not burdened with excise duties, so it's not for car mobiles, that's a special case, it seems to me, in the HNK and Lebanon Canton, there was something about it and through the media, where distributors from this area were looking for state intervention and protection in some way because they found themselves in a situation where they have a problem in this whole story about the implementation of this Law. And if I'm not talking about being hunted in a blur, here's a taxi service, they say the price of fuel can be a fencing and a half, two-mile-a-mile-a-mile-a-mile-a-mile-a-half-mile-a-mile-a-mile-a-mile-a-mile-a-half-a-mile-a-mile-a-hour-a-hour-a-hour-a-hour-a-hour-a-hour-a-hour-a-hour-a-hour-a-hour-a-hour-a-hour-a-hour-a-hour-a-year-a-year-a-week-a-week. So, there are many of these examples, we could all give them, but here, maybe we should try to make this proposaler's initiative more acceptable to everyone and that the Council of Ministers can implement you, that only so technologically doesn't answer us – you asked us for something that isn't feasible.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23832	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23833	Thank you very much. Here's just a comment on a few of these things. The first is colleagues from Novaković, this is a beautiful story without effects. First, then, his suggestion was to get these margins prices, or the height of this margin. So if that's all we get, so we did it, I don't see a colleague of Novaković, so that part if we go in that form we have a positive effect. 107 Another thing, counterpart Isaković, does not have Parliament's right to limit prices. We don't even limit prices here, we're here saying we're looking for information on what they are and we're calling on the competent institutions to find the possibility that a part of what's called, and the margins transfer to the burden of those who earn the most. I don't think we've even entered free markets, so that's one of the basic principles of our policy, is the free market, but on the other hand we want to be responsible and the government and politics, the state has a duty to be socially sensitive. So, an example of one of the most successful economies is the German economy, the market-social economy, has a free market, has this one relationship with these categories that needs to be protected. I support what my colleague Backović said, therefore, and I suggest that either he or he, and we, in the next part, suggest this, as he said, establishing the maximum margin, that we legally frame it, from time indefinite, I have understood, from eternity, this fuel to the barrel and all these other things. I think it's also an acceptable thing. And what it is, I want us to make one addition here. A colleague of Lovrinović when he mentioned retail, so in the text, the final text of our initiative can also be added wholesale. Of course, we don't have any, we don't have any problem just adding retail and wholesale, so we get all the information. Here, with this correction for us this is fully acceptable and I invite you, thank you all for your positive comments, we invite you to accept this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23834	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Isaković, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23835	Good, uh, Mr. Šepić is a correction, I either don't see well or he writes clearly here – an initiative to determine the maximum amount of retail oil distributor margin. So, you want the maximum margin price to be determined by this initiative. So I was just talking about it and, uh, I don't see any reason to comment at all, that's the point of the agenda that's right here in front of us. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23836	Thank you. Representative Mirasad Đonlagić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23837	Thank you. Well, we all agree that there has been an unacceptable abuse and exploitation of the situation where oil distributors have found themselves. All the experts economically, they all warned and said there was no reason, no possibility of such a thing, and that just happened. In order for this to be a good initiative, to be supported, with good intentions, but inexplicably defined, it might be most logical to refer this to our Finance and Budget Commission, which this 108 proposal will define and define in the best possible way that will be consistent with the Law and forwarded to the relevant institutions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, then to another competent commission, I don't know, but this isn't going to work, this is practically, if I can be free in interpretation, this is state interventionism that is unacceptable in the functioning of the free market. But that something should be done and that you should express your position against all of this, that's clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23839	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 26, Ad. 26. Approving the ratification of the Loan Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue 01,02-05-2-2851/17, dated 08.12.2017. I would like to remind you that at the 56th session of the House, held on 31.01.2018, we postponed the debate on this point in order to hold discussions with representatives of the banking sector of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the service users, especially the Swiss Association. I would also like to point out that the committee responsible for foreign affairs has given a negative opinion on granting consent to the ratification of this Agreement. I'm opening a debate. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23841	Thank you. Since I see that Mr Bevanda, in the accompanying material, is authorized by the Presidency to be at the House and to be an authorised proposing, I would ask you as chairman to contact us first, and certainly after the Minister, because let's say I can't be absolutely determined on the basis of what is being applied to us but as documents, because if this is a loan or a loan to encourage entity development banks, I would really appreciate that we are accompanied by a report in which the current state of that development bank, entity development bank, in order to know what this is going on, why, is it really necessary for them, and certainly after the Minister that we are authorized by someone from this Foreign Affairs Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23842	Here, maybe we should give the word to the Minister right now, and he wants to address this item on the agenda. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23843	Thank you. First, it should be said that the negotiation process, that I am not telling you about the procedures, the initiatives themselves, and we have now come to, in fact to Parliament and to give consent to ratification, with all the necessary procedures being passed. I will say briefly, so the objective of this project is to improve the solidarity of the banking sector through improving capacity for regulation, supervision and restructuring of banks and strengthening entity development banks. The project has a special component for the Federation and Republika Srpska and implementation of this project will provide first support to banking agencies in order to strengthen supervision of the banking sector and to ensure the strengthening of capital requirements, liquidity for banks, so that they can withstand distortions or restructuring possible concerning insolvency, liquidity, the introduction of a risk-taking framework and the internal evaluation process of capital adequateness and the introduction of a resuscitation risk-based surveillance methodology. This also enables the adoption of sub-legislative acts and decisions on the recovery and restructuring of banks, the establishment and operationalisation of units in particular... the restructuring of banks and the adoption of internal evaluation methodologies for recovery plans and the subsequent evaluation of recovery plans that all banks should deliver to the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska banking agencies. This whole project is a set, a whole package that resulted in amendments to the Banks and Banking agencies in the Federation and Republika Srpska. The amount of the proposed foreign debt is 56.6m euros, of which the Federation BH 28.3, and the same amount is Republika Srpska. As for the terms of this loan, the repayment period is 32 years, of which 7 years is a grace period, and the interest rate is variable, six-month... plus the margin, one-time advance fee is 0.25 of the amount of the loan and the interest rate for the outstanding amount of the loan is 0.25%. Without wanting to comment on anything, this has nothing to do with Swiss, it was an observation that was made there on the commission, this is simply a continuation of what entities were doing first, and they are also holders of the ultimate debt through the change and training of the banking sector to carry out, to withstand all those stresses and to maintain their stability. That's what I can say and what this is about. Because I also got opinions from the commission, there was a debate with the representatives of the banking sector, they participated very actively... Central Bank, Deposit Insurance Agency, Banking Entity Agency and everyone else. So, here we are, not to go the wrong way what led to this commission's negative attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23844	Thank you, Minister. Representative Mensura Beganović, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23845	I thank the chairman. 110 I know we're all tired, and I'm tired, but every time I see a point like this in the end, I see that we're in debt that's not naive at all, 56,600,000 euros for the recovery of two development banks, yes, no, that we're not lying. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It doesn't say. Okay, from the material it's clear, it means that it's the borrowing that needs to be recovered, among other things, by two development banks in the Federation and Republika Srpska. Both development banks, I say, have long been able to conclude that they're a troubled business, they're non-transparent business, that they're unprofessional party personnel that distribute money to companies, they're allotted to companies that are close to the authorities and in one entity and another, I'm not making a difference at all. I even became convinced when I was a member of the Commission for the Study of the State at the Export Credit Agency, that the Development Bank of Republika Srpska, for example, provided guarantees which, among other things, led the Export Credit Agency to such a very unspeakable position because of the operation of the UNIS - a pipe factory from Derventa. So, it's not just the media, but it's we, but I've made sure through the work in this Commission, where they've been substantiated by all the evidence that we have, who have just confirmed what I'm trying to tell you today. So, in no way do I think it makes any sense to be in charge of another 56 million even if it's 30 years and 7 years of grace, because it's worth paying us back, and who's going to spend it. I really think that this Parliament is a serious enough body that will not in such a way make you decide to allocate funds untransparently and in a way that helps companies that are close to the authorities of either entity or entity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23847	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23848	Thank you. I'm sorry that I'm alone, and there are no more representatives from my political option to contribute, so this is how I have to keep talking. It's not a problem of lending to the development of banking, it's not a problem at all, the problem is why here is not said, if you mention zero two banking agencies, deposit insurance agencies, what is the income of the annual banking agency, what is the average salary of banking agencies? Why didn't you tell us? So we should know what their annual income is. Do you know how much money the Federation Banking Agency bought for, do you know that information? Obviously not. What are they doing with the extra money they're paying? And now we need to be in charge, that agent is in charge of banking, and I don't know what. Let's take a guess, which my predecessor said, that these are the funds that need to go to the rescue of two development banks. Why are we not told here how high the collection rate of development banks is? How many risks are there? What about the rents that aren't even risky anymore, but definitely and finally unchargeable, because there are no more legal persons who have received these funds? 111 I think that when you say and when you propose an act like this, or should I call it, more... a financial operation like this, you need a little more explanation from the profession. Because if you don't give more explanations, there are always questionnaires above your head, dilemmas. Here, I said, banking sector, what is the total profit of commercial banks in this country? Where do these funds go from the profits of commercial banks, are they refinanced or withdrawn from the owners of banks? How much is the total assets of the banks? What's involved in that bank activity, are the deposits also citizens? How did we get these banks to make that profit here? By shutting down the Department of Payments and giving all the fees to the commercial banks, instead of staying in your budget, to us in the budget and to be an incentive to lower interest rates. How is it possible that all countries in the environment have kept it, and these lobbies, among other things, and those from international banks, have forced us to destroy all domestic banks. So I can make a decision, I'm asking for this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23849	Thank you. No more logged in on this agenda item. I'm closing the debate. We've exhausted today's session agenda. It's 8:10, how long do you need to meet?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23850	Half-nine, he can't do it before.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23851	So, 8:30, okay? I'll see you at the vote. Can we start with a vote? Please prepare, we'll go with the vote. Let's go point one. – The adoption of the minutes from the 55th and 56th session of the Parlama House of Representatives of the Croatian National Assembly. We vote first on the adoption of the 55th session record. Of the 34 present h– for 29, there are no abstentions 5. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we adopted the minutes of the 55th session. Now I ask you to plead with me on the adoption of the 56th session minutes. Of the 32 present – for 31, there is no, abstention 1. In addition to the general and entity majority, I'd like to conclude that we've adopted the 56th session minutes. We move to the plea under point 5. – Declaration by the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the report on the Proposal for a Law on the Exchange of Us and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Salko Sokolović, Senad 112 Šepić and Sadik Ahmetović, issue: 01-02-1-2400/17, of 09.10.2017. We are voting on a new deadline for the delivery of the 30-day report. Of the 34 present – for 13, versus 20, abstention 1. There's no general majority. I'm guessing we haven't set a new deadline for the delivery of the 30-day report. Please let us make a statement on point 6. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Persons Reporting Corruption in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Aleksandra Pandurević, Borjana Krišto and Mirsad Isaković, Law No: 01-02-1-2687/17, of 15.11.2017. (second reading) We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Of the 35 present – for 19 against 13, abstention 3. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. We can't go to the second round because we don't have a chance to agree, we leave for the next session. We move to the plea under point 7. – Prior to the draft law supplementing the Communication Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-2759/17, of 22.12.2017. (second reading), shortened procedure. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Of the 35 present – for 27 against 5, abstentions 3. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we adopted the proposal for a law supplementing the Communication Act, the proposal of the Council of Ministers in the second reading. We're going to point 8. – Prior to the draft amending law, there are also additions to the Law on the independent and supervisory bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-11752/17, of 14.11.2017. (first reading) We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Of the 35 present – for 23, against 9, abstention 3. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the independent and supervisory bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, the proposal of the BiH Council of Ministers in the first reading. We move to the plea under point 9. – Before the draft law amending neither the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Salko Sokolović, Senad Šepić and Sadik Ahmetović, Law No: 01-02-1-2884/17, since 14.12.2017, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. We are voting on a negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Of the 35 present – for 21 versus 13, abstention 1. I konstatirati that we have adopted a negative opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, therefore the proposal for a law is considered rejected in accordance with Article 113(2) of the Rules of Procedure. We move to item 10, but before we move to point 10, I propose a pool of votes on points 10 to 19, including point 19, since it is 10 reports from the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the financial audit of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016. 113 We are now voting on both voter voting points from 10th to 19th, including item 19. Of the 35 present – for 27, against 4 abstentions 4. With the existence of the general and entity majority, I find that we have united the vote on points 10 through 19, including point 19. Now we move on to the statement of the conclusions that are at this point proposed. We have suggestions from MP Nikola Špirić. Is there any need for me to read or do you? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23854	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23855	In a package. Please state the two conclusions of Representative Salke Sokolović. Of the 35 present – for 25, there are no abstentions 10. With the existence of the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the conclusions of MP Salke Sokolović. We now have the conclusions of MP Damir Bećirović, one conclusion. Please make a statement. _________(?) Can you read it? Can you read it? The House of Representatives asks the Ministry of Finance and Treasury to provide a table picture of public procurement of state institutions that have official vehicles for the subject of procurement. The information must contain the amount of contracts signed, the name of the legal person who is the signator of the contract with the state institution. The information should cover the 2000 period. – 2018. Of the 35 present – 27 for, against 6, abstention 2. 114 In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the conclusion of MP Damir Bećirović. We have the conclusions of SBB's representative. Should I read? _________(?) You don't have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23859	What about the machine?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-02-20-1.u23860	Just a moment, a little patience, please. You have the opportunity to vote, please. Of the 35 present – for 21 versus 9, abstentions 5. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the report on the work of the Independent Committee for 2017. Now, I ask you to make it clear that we are receiving the Independent Committee's work plan for 2018. Of the 35 present – for 21 versus 9, abstentions 5. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have taken note of the Independent Committee's work plan for 2018. We move on to the declaration under point 22. – Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Croatian military history parlama, issue: 01.02-34-1-418/18, dated 07.02.2018. We are voting on the introduction of this Decision to call for a military commissioner, Mr Boško Šiljegović. Of the 35 present – for 32, there are no abstentions 3. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the Decision appointing BiH's parliamentary military commissioner in the person of Mr Boško Šiljegović. Congratulations to the military commissioner on behalf of the House. We are going to enter a plea under point 23. – Information on the eligibility of the Decision on the height, manner and procedure of the exercise of the right to transport to work and transport from work adopted by the Council of Ministers at the 111st session, held on 24.08.2017. – Proposer of the point: Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vagalica, number: 01-50-1-434-1/18, from 20.02.2018. We are voting on the adoption of the conclusion of the representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Should we read the conclusion? You don't have to. Please make a statement. Of the 35 present – for 22, against 4, abstentions 9. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the conclusion of Agent Maja Gasal-The Vražalica. Moving to point 24. – Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 14.12.2017, which reads: "To this point in Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, 116 Parlames of the BiH General Assembly ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative calling on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to, no later than 30 days from the date of adoption of this initiative in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, to amend and supplement the Constitution of those cantons with the aim of ensuring the constitutional equality of Srbin, as well as to stop the canton, in which it has not been done so far, to specify and ensure constitutional equality of the Bosnian and Serbian languages, and Latin and Cyrillic," number: 01-50-15-54/17, reads: 01-50-1-2891/17. In addition to this initiative, we have a proposal for the conclusion of Agent Nikola Lovrinović. Do I need to read the conclusion? _________(?) You don't have to. Please let us first state the conclusion of Agent Nikola Lovrinović. Of the 35 present – for 7, versus 23, abstentions 5. There's no general majority. I'm realizing that we haven't adopted... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
