ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23214	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 56th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. The session called: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. Bosnia and Herzegovina's minister of civil affairs, Mr Adil Osmanović, has delivered a notice that he will not be able to attend the session. According to the Office's data, 35 deputies are present at the moment. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in the invitation, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are sorted by the order of arrival, and the representatives will present them in this order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give the word to MPs Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23215	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I was part of the answer to this parliamentary question already in writing. I am not satisfied, then I expressed dissatisfaction with the response given, believing that it is not a worthy response from one MP in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, appreciating the importance and values of economic diplomacy for the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to really make a real report as they are, transparently, by countries, so, from country to country, not to skip significant economic partners of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which they absolutely left out in their report as if I had absolutely no trade with them, as if we simply had no communication with them at all. The example works, one of the shows said that of all diplomatic activities of the former, now former, ambassador of Bosnia and Herzegovina to Belgium, he attended only one religious meeting in three years' time, about that. So it's a good thing he's a former, former ambassador, because it doesn't belong to the domain of economic diplomacy, so I find it very inconclusive that such a significant ministry is being humiliated in such a way, I must say, humiliating, giving such an answer. On the other hand, there are good examples with countries that have been very good and we have exchanged goods and services, but in most cases significant trading partners in Bosnia and Herzegovina and what has been done has been left out. One of my two esteemed colleagues said that she would have been happy if she hadn't read such an answer, such an answer is not worthy of a representative. in the Parliamentary Assembly. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So I ask that the answer be restored in detail by country – what have we done in the area of economic diplomacy in the period since we entered the mandate to this day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23216	Thank you. On behalf of the Council of Ministers, I see no foreign minister. No Niko's answering. Please MPs comment representatively.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23217	What might be a comment on something like this, the foreign minister is almost never here, Deputy, I don't see, I don't see a deputy. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is a person who runs the Department of Economic Diplomacy, if that person who runs the Department of Economic Democracy is behind this response, I personally think that there must be a staff change in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is one of the most important ministries. So I demand that Minister Crnadak take a look at that report. And I ask again here from this place, when we go by alphabet from Albania and beyond -- why are they significant commercially, in terms of trade exchange, why are very, very important states left out of the list, I wonder if it is possible that we and Belgium don't have a trade exchange, what is our economic diplomacy in some other countries that are left out? The response given is absolutely not at the level of the cantonal assembly, let alone the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Therefore, wanting economic diplomacy in Bosnia and Herzegovina to develop, and I am aware that the Council of Ministers' and Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers and Mr Šarović In particular, which is particularly pointed out, I would also like the representatives of the Foreign Ministry to take that part of their work seriously and to give us a serious answer, not only to me but also to my colleagues who I am sure are interested in. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23218	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23219	I thank the chairman. I have a question for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and it concerns the answer to the questionnaire. In particular, therefore, we in Parliament are interested – which questions are not answered, and on what issues has a compromise been made and what compromise has been made? We are particularly interested in the answer to the question where the census is mentioned in the answer, so – Is it true that you agreed as a compromise to send data from both lists? Based on what law and whose decisions did you make? And is it true that in this way, do you feel that way, this is now more political level not legal, so you recognize the results of the list in Republika Srpska? 3 And here, depending on the answer, I'll have some more comments. We have recently, as you know the chairman, rejected the report on activities on the European path at the Commission for European Integration. One reason is the frustration of MPs and the majority, and the opposition, by absolutely not providing us with information about this very important process, not to mention that Parliament is not adequately involved. The Director of the Directorate for European Integration gave us the answer that we cannot get information about what is happening because it is classified data. So maybe a little bit to clarify why Parliament is absolutely excluded from this process, whether it's the Council of Ministers' position, your personal position, or whether it's some kind of criminal practice that has to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23220	Thank you. The answer, Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here's the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23221	Thank you very much. I welcome all present. Eight questions have been asked, I guess I have 16 or 24 minutes to answer, not two minutes. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23222	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23223	Yeah, well, thank you for, of course, cutting me that part now. As far as the questionnaire is concerned, I think we need first of all to clarify the essence of the questionnaire. It is an instrument through which the competent services of the European Commission receive the necessary and updated information that will enable administrative capacity, the state of the political system, the economy, the functioning of institutions, the implementation of legislation, etc., i.e. the inventory of the current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and do not assume any obligations or legalisation. It's basically all about questionnaires. He, of course, will not be the only source of information on which the European Commission will prepare an opinion on the application for membership of Bosnia and Herzegovina. To this end, other data sources, such as expert field missions, reports by the ambassadors of the Member States, reports by international organisations, the structure of monitoring the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, will be used, so that there will be no news for the Commission itself. As far as the issues you mention are concerned, it is not statistics but a question that comes from economic criteria in which information is sought for, say, GDP per capita according to purchasing power standards, population according to regional allocation, height and movement of average gross and net earnings individually in the public and private sector, wage formation in the public sector, share of taxes and social contributions in the total expenditure on wages and data are presented by all levels of government within Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with their statistical agencies, and regarding the economic criteria related to this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23224	Thank you very much. 4 Advocacy comment. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23225	So you spent 55 seconds explaining to us the essence of a questionnaire that is clear to all of us, so you've just told us what we all know. After 10 seconds of complaining about the number of questions you received, and after that, you used the remaining minute to not answer the question. And it kind of reminds me of kids who are afraid of the dark, so they close their eyes and think when they open their eyes, the dark will go away. It won't go away, the question will stand here and what will happen next is that we will address others who may want to answer us. What may be a problem, and it will be your shame, peddler, that some others are beyond the borders of this country, so we will ask them what you sent them. But I think it is a huge shame for the country not to have a synergy effect on the executive and legislative authorities, that Parliament is not involved in European integration. that we don't have a chance to get answers, that the public knows nothing about, that you're hiding from us, and that you've legalized the population list in Republika Srpska with your answer. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It's just one political coincidence of all that. [[the speaker is warned on time]] There are many important issues that Parliament must know and I am sorry that you have not answered this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23226	Thank you. I give my word to Fehim Škaljić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23227	Thank you. I welcome you, those who have not, again, among them, Dr Zvizdić and other members of the Council of Ministers. I, motivated by the writing of the media these days, and aware of the fact that for the small economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, exports are a fundamentally important dimension, asked the question to the respected Minister Šarović, whom I personally appreciate and what he is doing – What is..., why do we have incidents on exports and why as part of the structure of the Bosnia and Herzegovina government we do not have the opportunity to be directly informed about some important issues? The job of several tens of millions of euros, a job that is fatally important for some people who live on agriculture, and we as MPs, who have part of our responsibility, among other things, are informed through media that have freedom of interpretation and which are not, I say, an official position. So I asked the question – What is happening to us? Who are these subjects with personality and de facto and de jure, and what have we done to prevent it, and how long and where should we as the legislative body of government here, and those others, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, be involved in working out regulations that will exclude it? Today, the people who make apples of stress, despite the year that was bad, will that be a little bit? which they have picked to sell or they will fail. [[the speaker is warned on time]] That's why I asked the minister today to inform us about it, but more in that dimension, how to make sure it doesn't happen again. We are In an opportunity, here's to end this, if we were to assume that the problem was with meat, we have no claim što's on the dream, I would ask the minister's answer. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23228	Thank you. The answer, Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister BiH. Here you go, Minister. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23229	Thank you. I'm taking the opportunity to greet you all. A detailed answer we will provide to the honourable MP, given that it is a multitude of details, I do not believe that in these two, three minutes I will be able to answer everything, but I will try to speak quickly and perhaps give you more facts, because it is obvious that you insisted on the data. And, here, I'll talk about meat first, and then after that, I'll talk about apples. So, the uncoordinated meat shipment of August 2017, which was exported from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Republic of Turkey, was produced at the Bajra Travnik facility, and the exporter was the company "Mujanović" from Vogosce. The discrepancies concerned the presence of Escherichia Coli, which was discovered during the control of the shipment at the entrance to the Republic of Tusk, means the border itself, by the competent border inspector, the Turkish border inspector. Immediately after receiving, by a Turkish inspection, the information on this non-compliance has been informed by the BiH Veterinary Office of the Central Bosnian Canton control veterinary inspection, which is responsible for carrying out a veterinary examination at the Bajra slaughterhouse and responsible for monitoring the entire process of slaughter and certification of animal health certificates for consignments of bovine meat exported to the Republic of Turkey in order to detect the cause of non-compliance and take measures to prevent similar occurrences. In accordance with the agreed procedures with the Republic of Turkey and the fact that the return to the meat shipment of cattle from Bosnia and Herzegovina for which any discrepancies are determined is no longer possible, this consignment of beef was destroyed in the Republic of Turkey according to a report by the Turkish side, and the cost of destruction was borne by the exporter of the shipment. And this kind of treatment will always be in this or in any case whether one or more cases appear. Turkey's side of the slaughterhouse listed has been removed from the list of export facilities. Currently, we have no problem delivering meat to Turkey, as of 31 January, a new cycle with the purchase of live cattle began, and the export facility, one of the export facilities, has two exporters, is also the "Susa" slaughterhouse from High. When it comes to apples, perhaps in the beginning to say that on 18.01.2018 the Plant Health Protection Administration as an official contact point for the exchange of information from the phytosanitary areas with the Russian Federation have been notified by the Russian side of possible abuses and fraud in the case of one consignment of apple exports. [[the speaker is warned on time]] In view of this notification, it was found that it was an apple shipment of approximately 19 tonnes, accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate issued by a Phytosanitary Inspectorate in Brcko and that this shipment of exporters is practically the company "Frukt companies" d.o.o. from Bijeljina which exported apples from the manufacturer Nedžad Mujčinović Lukavac – Gradačac. For a short period of time, there is an abundance of information, to say that as a final measure, the Russian side has suspended exports from Bosnia and Herzegovina until Bosnia and Herzegovina punishes the perpetrators and the advanced control system, that is, such a system that will recognise abuses and punish perpetrators. In this sense, the Management has taken a number of measures, the Ministry, competently, the agriculture from Republika Srpska has been removed from.../gosnik in time... the list of exporters "Frukt companies" and all its co-operatives, and the Ministry has proposed, according to the Council of Ministers and Entity Ministries, a special decision which would raise the issue of registers in entities to a higher level and to raise the level of responsibility, so that such and similar situations would be, I would say, would not appear or the possibility of abuse would be constrained. This process is being investigated by other SIPA control bodies and other inspection bodies, and we will likely have a chance to see the results for the next weeks. Here, maybe I'm past time.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23230	Thank you very much. 6 Does a representative want to comment on the answer? Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23231	Deliver the ministers so and give us only time, that we have a pace in one important thing and that we discourage those who would re-enter the stores that cost Bosnia and Herzegovina and people who want to work exportably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23232	Thank you. I give my word to MPs Dušanka Majkić. Here you go, MPs. Thank you, counsel. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Civilian Minister isn't here, but I realized the MP wants a written answer, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23234	... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23235	At the next session. Thank you. 7 I give the word to MPs Hanka Vajzović. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23236	Thank you, Chairman. The question is addressed to the esteemed Minister Mektić, and it is about the 2016 Safety Report, in fact about what he said five, six days ago at the House of Peoples when there was an objection as to why he was late, why the 2016 report was considered in early 2018. On that occasion, the minister complained that it was difficult to get the data, that actually the agencies in the system were not delivering the requested data, that he or the Ministry had to download the data from the web portal, mostly asking him – What are the security agencies, he would like to specify, because it sounded amazing to me first, and then to Bog, if it were true, who obstructed the making of the Safety Report by not sending the requested information in time? Did the Ministry of Security, as an institution that asked these agencies in the security system for hierarchical authority and received information that, in fact, they were looking for an explanation why they didn't act as requested? And is that what the Defence and Security Commission was informed about, the last session we had was the Report, but we didn't have this kind of information, and especially the Independent Committee? What does the call mean, that's what the minister said, calling the legislative authority to help deliver the data? And fourthly, is there any evidence of disputed coordination in the security system, which has been clearly confirmed, let's remember, in the February 2014 riots and this ignoring of the Ministry of Security as a roof security institution, and in what way did this Independent Committee react, so are they aware whether they are, is there anything they can do? I've given a note here. in the text of this, because I believe that the Independent Committee is very important and very important about this issue of mine. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, I'm looking for some information written, so I hope to get it, and here in this matter, it's contained.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23237	Thank you. The answer, Bosnia and Herzegovina's security minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23238	I personally think and think that the already permanent practice has practically become a matter of one year of information on the overall state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I remember through my paw and the years I spent here that it was constantly done and I personally think that such information about the overall state of security within Bosnia and Herzegovina can serve everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina as some indicator of the takeover of certain security policies, problems, analysis etc. by changing through this whole practice the way this information was made up and we are now making it into a way that it is so accessible, it should be, and that it should answer certain questions that the European Union is asking us to, above all, Eurostat. However, here are the two years back we can't get all the data, valid data from all law enforcement agencies, to be direct and concrete we can't get, we didn't get any answers to those questions from the Ministry of the Interior of Republika Srpska, or in 2015, or even this year 2016. We have repeatedly worked on that answer by asking them to send us that data according to the standard on which we collect that data and process it. We didn't get any answers to any questions, no questions, and I just want to say that that's why I was late with that report, and I had problems with the House of 8 people to explain what it was about. We finally saw that when there was no such data then we used the Ministry of the Interior of Republika Srpska's website, we took it, but it's not compatible with what we need to do further. And, here's what I'm going to say, I won't be able to make this information up in the future until we get such orderly and compatible data. [[the speaker is warned on time]] As for, therefore, these agencies of the Ministry have answered these questions, I have not started, nor have I needed to initiate any procedure. As far as the legislative authority is concerned, it is up to you to assess whether we can do something about a way and a deal, all together, to get that information just to make up one piece of information that would concern the overall state of security. And I was not in any way in charge of the Ministry of the Interior of Republika Srpska, nor could I, on that basis, initiate any, whose responsibility was at, or with, the Independent Police Committee, or anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23239	Thank you very much. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23240	Just to thank Minister Mektić. He's so quite, let's say, secretly said that, in fact, it couldn't be seen from that performance of his on the House of Peoples where the problem was, and since I was dealing with the issue of independence, under quotes, of the Independent Committee, I thought it was about the agencies that are in the structure here and that there was a possible problem. But here's a good thing that we know where the problems are and if it were actually about the report, I don't know what anyone would deny us what the data has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23241	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23242	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. My question is the Minister of Communications and Transport of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Jusk. – Why did the Ministry of Sublaw transfer public powers to coordinate international and inter-entity bus routes to the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH without a procedure laid down in the Management Act, and how many of today's public powers have been transferred to the Vanjskotgovina Chamber of BiH to date? To which carriers does this apply, and how much has the Ministry paid off the funds by lost disputes individually and in total? Reason: The Foreign Chamber of Commerce website of BiH states that the procedure for harmonising international and inter-entity bus driving orders is carried out by the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH under the authority laid down in the provisions of the Law on International and Inter-entity Road Transport, which was transposed by the Regulation on the coordination and registration of international and 9 inter-entity driving lines, and in accordance with the Decision on how to perform the tasks of the coordination of international and inter-entity driving lines. This means that the Ministry transferred public authority to the Foreign Trade Chamber of BiH by means of an act, the Regulation on the coordination and registration of international and inter-entity bus routes, and the Law on International and Inter-entity Road Transport found that these tasks were carried out by the Ministry. The management law, members of 9 and 22, found that, as well as how public powers can be transferred, as is the case for all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as for the competent ministry. The regulation, made by the minister, found that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Foreign Chamber of Commerce's decisions harmonizes driving orders, while the ministry handles it as a second-degree body of administration. This means that administrative disputes before the court are led against the ministry, and in the case of lost administrative disputes, in practice confirmed, the Ministry pays compensation to prosecutors and Thank you. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23243	Thank you very much. Reply, Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23244	Dear President, members of the College, distinguished MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers. I'd like to answer to the honourable representative next. International line transport of passengers between Bosnia and Herzegovina and other countries is carried out in accordance with the Law on International and Inter-entity Transport and the conditions laid down in international contracts. The permit to carry out international liner transport of passengers is issued by the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport at the request of an interested carrier. The application shall be submitted to the Ministry of Communications and Transport and shall be accompanied by a harmonised driving order. The law does not stipulate that the Ministry must implement the alignment of driving orders. Article 13 The law stipulates that the provisions on the procedure for the coordination and registration of driving orders, the manner and procedure of issuing licences, the form of the permit and the second, are laid down by the Rules of Procedure of the Minister. Article 47 of the same Law stipulates that the Regulation on the method and procedure of harmonisation and registration of the driving orders of international liner passenger passengers may... certain transactions to other institutions and business associations. Note, the Law provides that the Minister may, by Regulation, transfer business, coordination, to another institution and business association, which is in accordance with the Administration Act. What is controversial here is the fact that BiH's Foreign Chamber of Commerce has conducted administrative procedures that ended the issue of a solution, which, according to the BiH Court's legal understanding, is not possible. The ministry has prepared and adopted a new Regulation on Harmonisation, which is referred to on the publication, which provides for the Ministry to decide on the compliance of the driving order, after the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH submits a report on the implementation of the driving order examination procedure. Here, before this session, I was informed that this Regulation came out today in the Official Messenger of BiH. It is important to note here that this is a business that needs to be continuously implemented and for which the Ministry has no capacity, so it has entrusted part of the business to the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, and the reason is that the associations of international carriers are also at the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. There have been only 18 judicial administrative disputes that have not resulted in compensation for the damages so that there has been no damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget and 10 June. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I note that there were over 2,000 items of implantation. So, in 99% of the procedures, neither the governing administrative dispute was initiated, but only 18 times. I note that in 2017 alone, the Ministry made revenues of 181,210 KM based on the issue of licences for international passenger transport. Finally, I would like to point out that at the 71st session held in 2016, the BiH Council of Ministers established the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International and Inter-entity Transport, that this proposal, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law, was adopted by this House..., however, that they were rejected by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which further makes it difficult for the position of the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH in a way that the 2002 legal solution was greatly exceeded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23245	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23246	I thank the Deputy Minister. If this, and I believe it is, the amendment to the Regulation is complete and published, then it will in many ways improve the situation there, although, uh, here, I will once again check about these lost disputes and damages. If I find this information incorrect, I will respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23247	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23248	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, here I would remind my colleagues and colleagues that we have already talked on several occasions about the relationship between the Energy Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the obligations that we have to the Energy Community and that we are always moving somewhere between penalties, or suspensions, and extensions of deadlines and we are always somewhere close, but still a lot of these things are missing. One of these issues was asked a lot of questions and there was a lack of debate, and I had the opportunity to read recently from Minister Šarović a very thorough explanation and answer to the question precisely about the relationship between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina according to the demands of the Energy Community, and I know that one of the key issues is the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina's energy strategy. In this context, a strategy that sounds quite optimistic, but is not given any time frame in which it should be done and until when this obligation has to end, but the threat, the suspension by the Energy Community stands, and in that sense I want to ask a question and I want Mr. Šarović to comment on it, to give me these data, to us and to all – Is there a time frame and a time limit in which this energy strategy should be done? Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23249	Thank you. The answer, Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23250	Thank you. Here I'm gonna use these few minutes to say, maybe, the key ones. In my opinion, the time when an energy strategy was to be adopted probably passed a long time ago, perhaps seven, eight years ago. Back in the past several years, because of the lack of energy strategy, we cannot withdraw funds through, I would say, a platform for the Western Balkans because, even for those projects through which the funds have been received, due to the lack of this strategy, but also the Electricity Act, we cannot withdraw these funds. The agreement on the development of an energy strategy was reached in 2008 by sporazum-Branković-Dodik-Špirić-Spiric, when principles for the development of the strategy were agreed, and the Ministry of Foreign Trade together with the relevant ministries from Republika Srpska and the Federation, i.e. with colleagues of ministers from the entity ministries, in January 2017 we reached an agreement in the European Commission's premises to set up energy strategies and this Energy Strategy of the Federation, the update of the Energy Strategy of Republika Srpska, and the development of a framework strategy for the whole level of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the 2035 time period. The ministry provided 900,000 KM through the British Embassy. The engagement of international consortiums of experts from this area and, together with working groups from the units, all three of these strategies were made during the month of May, or June, 2017. Public debate was also held in the middle of 2017 and opinions were requested from competent entities. So, Finally, the energy strategy has been prepared, it has gone into procedure, but all the views of the entity, although we have worked together on these strategies, have not yet arrived at the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in order to move forward towards the Council of Ministers. [[the speaker is warned on time]] We received a positive opinion from the Federation, from the Brcko District, waiting for more consent from Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23251	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment? You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23252	Very, very short. Of course, no matter what irrationality it is, Bosnia is a very difficult country to understand. To treat the money offered to us, you know, which is not allocated to Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat, and ostali, but to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in building energy capacities and resolving the long-term energy issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That we can't agree on taking the money, that's what's completely incomprehensible to me. I fully understand that there are certain reluctances, but I do not understand that we do not want to take money in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hope that one day we'll get into this situation that we need the money so much, that we can go over that rubicon to adopt these things like an energy strategy. I ask you, if you can give me that answer and write it down. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23253	Thank you. I give my word to President Nenad Lalić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23254	The Honorable Chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, fellow MPs. My question is addressed to the defence minister, Ms. Marina Pendeš, and which is – Why does the Ministry of Defence avoid the service of the general remont of the Mi8 helicopter provided by renowned organisations certified by helicopter designers to perform the helicopter's general remont? Although all the countries in the environment, Hungary, Macedonia, finally and Croatia, have granted the general remont, i.e. contracts with companies that have a valid certificate and a slow down of the Commission's proposals for the resolution of complaints, the Ministry of Defence is persistently trying to award a contract for the remonting of two helicopters to a company that does not own a certificate, i.e. Helistot from Helisot, and thus directly influences the safety of flying in the Armed Forces of BiH. How does he plan to legally implement the purchase of the service and provide a remont of the Mi8 helicopter and how much time is needed to do so, since the purchase of the service has been extended for more than four years? Doesn't the time of four years also say that something in the defence ministry's own procedure is wrong. And only the Ministry of Defence has been deaf about two solutions to the Office of Appeals that did not go to their advantage, then from 2017 three information, one from the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on a meeting held with a representative of the Federal Service for Military and Technical Co-operation of the Russian Federation, then the Information Embassy of BiH from a meeting in Moscow, then a letter from the Federal Service, etc., which in all these memos indicate who has a valid certificate and warns that Heliosota does not have a valid certifiery. Then, in 2017, the Commission was and assessed these two helicopters, meaning the assessment of the technical status of helicopters after the insight of Russian experts where it was clearly defined that, with the insight into the documentation, it is known that vital parts, assemblies and aggregates of helicopters have so-called passports or that we would call them charts of data where all their work data is recorded, because it is known that some vital parts have shortened deadlines in exploitation due to specific some dynamic stress, spending, vibration etc., er, where it's been established even if some numbers are typed, that they're [[the speaker is warned on time]] made duplicates of pasporta. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And that all points out that we picked the wrong one, and we still want to pick the bad one, the, uh, performer. And finally, to congratulate the services that are so brave in your ministry, and I think their courage is a product of ignorance, ignorance of technology and technology when it comes to... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23255	Thank you very much. Answer, Bosnia and Herzegovina Defence Minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23256	Thank you, Madam President. Honorable MPs and deputies, members of the Council of Ministers. So, based on the launched public procurement process, the General Remont of helicopters Mi8 MTV1 and Mi8 MT, the BiH Defence Ministry made a decision on the selection of the most favourable bidder to whom the appeal was filed. In the appeal procedure, the Board of Appeal adopted the appeal and annulled the Decision on the selection of tenderers, ordered the contracted authority to review 13 qualifications of the bidder chosen as the most favourable. In the re-determining that the tendering documents, the call for participation, were not contested by the Board of Appeal and were in the phase of the examination of the application in the qualification phase, and that the decision on the qualification of candidates was not contested or annulled, the contracted authority could not make a different decision, except to re-select the only acceptable final offer. A new defence ministry decision by a group of bidders reiterates an appeal where the BiH Defence Ministry cited all infringements of the rules of procedure as a contracted body in response to the appeal, as well as infringements of the material law by the Office for the Review of Appeals. However, the Board of Appeal re-admits the appeal and repeals the decision on the election, but not the Decision on the qualification of candidates, and has been ordered by the Ministry of Defence to review the qualification of the tenderers. By respecting the procedural provisions until the end of this procedure, we are not able to present any more details now. However, esteeming the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the defence ministry will publicly present all the facts in this process, including all the media information and these issues, after the end of the proceedings and the rightfulness of the decision. What I can still state is the fact that the BiH Ministry of Defence has carried out an analysis of the Office's resolution on complaints and an analysis of the application of the Public Procurement Act in part of the Law on Administrative Procedure, and that the Ministry of Defence will act in accordance with the Office's resolution on the examination of complaints, given that the same has finally been done. By respecting those laws and the rights of the Ministry of Defence as a contracted body, it has the right to do so. I would like to point out on the issue of the honourable representative Lalić that the criteria laid down clearly and transparently are criteria which the Board of Appeal has not disputed or annulled in the tender documentation, and that the estimated value of the procurement in question has been carried out in accordance with the possibilities. I must inform the esteemed House that the budget envisions 7.4 million. Two companies reported, one offered 6.3 million, and another 10.3 million, and then you need to know, so what can the Defence Commission do in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. It cannot respect a larger offer when those funds are provided. I would also like to point out that even before the conclusion, as it was the conclusion in your question, to review the possibility of conducting the procedure without publication of the notice, this option has been discussed in the Ministry of Defence, but since it may be the least transparent and from the point of view of corruption in the high-risk way of conducting the procedure, we have nevertheless defined ourselves in the Ministry of Defence for this way. I, too, claim here on behalf of the Ministry of Defence, on behalf of the professional people who are members of the Commission, that everything has been done in accordance with the Law on Public Procurement and that we will inform everything and, I hope soon to end the procedure and form a Joint Commission of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly where, alongside me and my two deputies, both the presidents and members of the Committee who have been doing this procedure so that they can possibly answer questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23257	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment? You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23258	Thank you. Thank you for your comprehensive response. I'd just like to explain one more thing, the price as one of the criteria is desirable to be low, but it's not satisfactory and it's not crucial, because you know for a fact that the length of the proceedings tells you and the number of candidates reported that the market is not sufficiently explored and that this is not a real price. I'm here again saying that no one at this price can remount the helicopters, but it can stand in the hangar. So, uh, you saw for yourself how much, uh, quality 14 and original spare parts sort of collect the remot, and the Commission itself, based on the insight and the state of the parts of the helicopter, gave the price and I want to point out that this price is more favourable and than, they have agreed with Macedonia at a higher price, with Hungary, I think, and Croatia. So this is the least price offered for the two helicopters, 10 million and something, that's about 5 million euros, and these are over 5 and 500. And once again, I don't think this is the real plan price that Sometimes, uh, formed, that we should reevaluate it and go out with one [[the speaker is warned on time]] , see what the response is to companies that have certificates in the world. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23259	Thank you. I give my word to Damir Arnaut. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23260	I thank the chairman. The issue was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Last year, in the middle of last year, I received a letter signed by concerned civil servants in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which they pointed to potential irregularities in the Council of Ministers meetings, which concern the adoption of the regulations imposed by my Law, which have been abolished or significantly limited fees for commission work and other working bodies. Following that letter, I asked through a parliamentary question in written form for the answers to the references set out in that letter, as well as the delivery of the minutes and other relevant materials from the Council of Ministers' meetings to which the letter was addressed. And it was all in July last year. So my question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, since I have experience that additional parliamentary issues mainly in written form do not yield some result when you wait six months for an initial question, I am asking an oral question, which is – What is the status of the preparation of the reply and the requested material from this written parliamentary issue since 28.07.2017? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23261	Thank you. Answer, Minister of Finance and Treasury. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23262	I asked the chairman's question.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23263	Please, as part of the Council of Ministers, I see you agreeing on who's giving answers to some questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23264	Hello, everyone. Since one of your emergencyes has listed the Minister of Finance and is not the wrong address. I will, since, trying to respect a two-minute response format, a short 15 answer, and the status of the preparation response is, you will get within the day, two of what you asked for. So, you have to say that it's about management, about the Management Board of indirect taxation, and I absolutely won't talk about how it's formed, so he's formed in accordance with the Law on the Directorate for indirect taxation. In your question, it was stated – whether the Council of Ministers concluded and that the debate on this issue was held on the Council of Ministers on several occasions, so I say that you will receive a written reply, I will just say a few facts. So, the information on the status of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board established under the Law system on the indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was proposed by the Management Board whose chairman was addressed to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers discussed this issue at a session, not at several sessions, at one session, and concluded that the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board was subject to an exemption from the provisions of the Law adopted in Parliament. And just to say that this conclusion has never been carried out, that it is never in conformity with the law, and that none of the members of the Board of Directors, which I am sorry, quite normal, people, experts, who are members of the Management Board and who have been appointed by entity governments and the Council of Ministers, but since the 12th month of '16. They don't receive any compensation for years. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23265	Thank you very much. Does the representative want to comment? You have your word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23266	I thank the chairman. First of all, if I've heard correctly, and it's really amazing if it's really being said here right now, that the Council of Ministers has made a decision to exempt someone from the law. So this is now another one of those situations that is becoming more and more common in Bosnia and Herzegovina to exclude people from the law or to bypass certain provisions of the law, this one, from the decisions of certain authorities. So much for this, and I'm waiting for answers in writing for six months, seven months, here, if it's gonna be in a day, two, that's great. Thank you, Minister. The Chairman, according to Article 169. The Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers, I quote - a member of the Council of Ministers whose question is referred to it is obliged to answer the question at the same session at which it is set up or state the reasons for which it cannot be answered. In that case, he is obliged to orally answer the asked question at the first next session. You have frequently warned MPs today not to adhere to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, whether, in the case of correction of the wrong assumption, etc., and here is a very clear Rules of Procedure – a member of the Council of Ministers whose question is referred is obliged to answer at the same session at which the question is asked. My announcement clearly refers to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I asked the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, and you have said, on a case-by-case basis, that they agree, someone else will answer. Since the chairman of the Council of Ministers did not respond to this session as he was obliged, I insist that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he do so in oral form, too, at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23267	Thank you. I give my word to Maji Gasal-Gasal-Vražalica. Here you go, MPs. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23268	I thank the chairman. My question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić, as well as Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mr Šarović. So, recently there was a visit from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and she was the President of the Republic of Croatia, but I know that you once told me in giving me the same question that I am asking right now, giving Mr. Zvizdić an answer, that you did not talk, that it was not the subject of talking to the President of the Republic of Croatia, but rather the Government, and after that meeting with Prime Minister Plenković, we heard nothing from you about what was on the agenda, and although you said that one of the priorities of your meeting would be Lake Busko, or that you would talk to the Government of the Republic of Croatia about it. However, the media and your report on the website cannot tell what you are, whether it was even on the agenda of Buško jezero and what you agreed on. So I give you a question that I have already referred to many times in my oral form, which was written – Was it on the agenda of your meeting with Buško jezero and what you agreed with the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23269	Thank you. Answer, Foreign Trade Minister and Economic Relations. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23270	Thank you. As you know in Ruda, the Municipality of Otok, a hydropower plant Orlovac installed 237 megawatts was built in 1972, which is characteristic of using water from Lake Busko mud completely on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that question has been asked here and possible interstate agreement on this matter and a lot of it, I answered some of the questions myself. I can only present or give you an answer concerning the joint session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH held in half of 2017. In that sense, I would like to say that at this session of July 7, 2017, it was discussed, among other things, and this issue. On this occasion, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Plenković, after introducing me as a resolute minister, because I insisted on this issue, expressed the view that any legal solution by Bosnia and Herzegovina that regulates and regulates this area is acceptable for Croatia, determined the compensation for the use of the Bus mud hydrocumulation and the distribution of funds to different levels of government from this fee and that the Republic of Croatia and the Orlovac Hydropower Plant will respect and adapt to any changes made by Bosnia and Herzegovina. I read this especially now because, I would say, I deliberately took care to state the position of the Croatian side. And given that this stems from the fact that the position of the Croatian side is that the issue of the use of the water resources of Lake Busko Blato is not regulated by an interstate agreement, but rather the issue of the applicable legislation of the competent authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I informed the Federation government, or Prime Minister Novalić, about this, to take action within the institutions, or bodies in the Federation government to address all issues related to the hydroaccumulation of the Busko Blato, to initiate procedures within the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in view of this position of the Croatian side.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23271	I thank the minister. 17 Does the representative want to comment on the answer? You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23272	I thank Mr. Minister and I only ask to be delivered to me in writing to have this very important position by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23273	Thank you. I give my word to President Jasmin Emrić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23274	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I'm going to ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The President-in-Office – What are the reasons why you did not answer my question in writing on 21 September 2017, which was said to be at a joint session of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, held in Sarajevo on 7 July 2017, as a item of the agenda discussed the intention of the Republic of Croatia to build a warehouse or disposal of radioactive and nuclear waste at the location of the Republic of Croatia, a microlocation of Cerkezovac in the Municipality of Dvor in the Republic of Croatia, and to agree or conclude on opposition to Bosnia and Herzegovina to concrete procedures conducted by the State Institute for Radio and Nuclear Security of the Republic of Croatia, and to develop a Strategic Study for the National Implementation Programme for the Management of Radioactive Waste, Used Sources and Exhailed Nuclear Fuel? I'll explain with a few sentences why I'm asking this question. At the 3rd session of the Working Party for the Monitoring of Status and Activity in relation to the possible construction of a landfill of radioactive and nuclear waste at the place of Shop Gora, a conclusion has been adopted that members of the Working Party are tasked with asking the Council of Ministers for a report or information from a joint session of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a section relating to the intentions of the Republic of Croatia to build and establish a landfill and warehouse of radioactive waste, used sources and spent nuclear fuel in the place of Trade. In order to carry out the stated conclusion as a member of the Working Group, I asked a question in writing on September 21st last year. Since I have not yet received an answer to the question in writing, and it has been more than 4 months, I have decided to ask you, the Honorable Chairman of the problem and why is it not responding to the question asked, that is, when can I expect your answer in writing so that I can report to the Working Group on the execution of this conclusion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23275	Thank you. The answer, Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23276	I don't really remember not answering you, there's no problem with getting an answer, I'll prepare the answer in the next five, six days and you'll get a written answer to your question. It was certainly one of the topics we discussed at a joint 18-session of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Bosnia and Herzegovina's attitudes were very clear, very precise, based on the declarations and resolutions adopted by you here in Parliament, the views of our agency and the final views of the resolution ministry, i.e. by the fact that as joint signatories of international conventions we have the right to participate in all plans and projects that are related to determining, defining the location for the disposal of waste, that kind of danger, that is, nuclear waste, because, according to the current conventions, it must take care of the nearest locality where it arises, and in this case, it was not, and it would not have been a very long and far drive from where it occurs. What is the common position of two governments, i.e. the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Vlada of Hravatska, is that we will be fully involved in accordance with the international conventions of which we are signatories, and as far as I have the latest information, the final decision on the location has not yet been adopted by the competent authorities of the Croatian Government. We regularly follow that, we are in contact and I cannot say with complete certainty that this issue has been resolved, but I think they have taken our serious opposition and the fact that we have very relevant arguments from the local community, canton, entity and Bosnia and Herzegovina that this should not be defined as a waste disposal site right next to the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially not because of the fact that it would be on the border with a protected natural area. But here's what I'm going to do to you in detail and answer, of course I'm not really, I don't remember answering your question since September, I don't know what happened, but you'll get the answer very soon.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23277	Thank you, Chairman. Does the representative want to comment? You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23278	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers and I am pleased that this was the point of the agenda and that we will have concrete information on the views of the Republic of Croatia. However, I must reiterate that it is a very important interstate issue that is increasingly becoming a real danger and a constant security threat to the development of the northwestern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have been exposed for almost two decades in the northwestern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina to mobbing and frequent harassment for procedures conducted in the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, which aim to build a dump near our densely populated cities. Every media announcement about continuing proceedings in the neighbouring country, as it was 15 days ago, is a blow to the mental state of our citizens, and it requires concrete actions and practices to protect their rights to a healthy and clean environment. Every day, citizens ask me if we're going to do something concrete to finally end this stigma about building a dangerous dump. It is worrying that the holder of a Strategic Study for the National Programme for the Implementation of the Radioactive Waste Management Strategy has not respected any remarks, not a single question raised by representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a public debate on these documents. These responses were made publicly available by the institutions of these strategic documents, and it seems to me that there is no such security as may be achieved at a joint session of the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I believe that it is extremely reckless for the competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia that the proposed location and disposal of this hazardous waste has no negative impact on the Bosnia and Herzegovina area.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23279	Thank you. 19 I give the word to Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23280	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. My question was addressed to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Security Minister, Mr Dragan Mektić. The question is: In recent days, the public has been upset by the information about the actions of paramilitary formations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Serbian Honor and the Night Wolfs, asking me to answer what kind of formations are, are they humanitarian or paramilitary formations, where they operate, and how much are they endangering security or are they a threat to security in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23281	Thank you. The answer, Bosnia and Herzegovina's security minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23282	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs. I would say to a respected minister. To Ahmetović, we treat this issue that he has now raised the question with a steppe mark "secretly" and since the conditions here are not met to discuss this issue and this issue, I will deliver this information to the honourable MP Ahmetović by written means in accordance with the rules that he prescribes and imposes the Law on the Protection of Secret Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23283	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I give my word to President Mirsad Isaković. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23284	I thank the chairman. My question was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. It has been noted recently that a large number of strikes have been present in the Zenic-Doboj canton, especially in Zenica. Those strikes are really serious, when I say seriously, then I think they have their own deadly consequences, but also injuries. Police clashes on the last strike between iron workers resulted in nine injured. My question is – Can you give us clearer information about these events, and what measures will you take to resolve the economic and socio-economic situation in the Zenic-Doboj canton or at least try to solve it? A brief explanation: I remind you that since the war, Zenica has lost 35,000 jobs here. Just one thing, I'm going to list those companies that you're very familiar with, and they're not even on the map today. The Zenica Ironworks employ 25,000 people, only 2,000 people enter the Iron Sea today. Fireplace 20 is a company of the world's voice which is not even on the map today, you don't even know where the headquarters is, Prin-engineering, Construction, Preniz, Renaissance, GP Construction, etc., etc. On the economic situation, I would like to say one more thing, that the citizens of the Zenic-Doboj canton are very dissatisfied with the fact that the Law on the distribution of public income is a subject that has been present in the Canton for years and especially in the City of Zenica. I myself was the initiator of the Law on the distribution of public revenue which I had referred to in the procedure in 2012 and had never seen the light of day. There they clearly proved who, where and how the funds were poured over. For these reasons, I would like to acknowledge the Council of Ministers' answers to these two questions, of course, to the extent possible, because in two minutes I am aware that he can't say everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23285	Thank you. The answer, Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23286	I will, of course, be happy to answer your question, but it must be more clearly defined and a little clearer, or in line with the powers that you mention in the areas, the Council of Ministers of BiH has. Of course, we all follow the overall situation and developments at the level of all Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of what level of government it is, but the involvement of police forces you mention does not come from the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the social situation that is related to the Fire Department or other companies, which are in the problem, have virtually no touching procedural, financial or any other connection with the activities or responsibilities of the BiH Council of Ministers. So, if the question were specific or defined in a way that we can see from it what are the possible powers of the BiH Council of Ministers or the possibility of our action to address such problems, I will be very happy to answer it, and we will be happy to start such procedures in the Council of Ministers, but I think that this is, above all, exclusive to the jurisdiction of the cantonal level and the federal level, and as far as I'm monitoring the media, it seems to me that they have started to act in the direction of solving the problems you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23287	Thank you, Chairman. Would you like to comment on the MP? You have your word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23288	Of course, Mr. Chairman, the citizens of the Women's Doboj canton in you and Mr. Novalić see the personification of the government, and this country, this country has settled the debt to Kuwait on due loans and is therefore sold for one mark, which is why I have asked the question here, I am aware of the level to which it should be. I'm asking a question because $60 million has been sold to the Irons, or for one mark. Now that these people need what they've earned and they're just looking for what they've earned and nothing else, then we can't, not this Parliament, not anyone else can justify that it's not... And security, one more thing, security is not divisible, security is unique in this country and I mean that, and what I'm saying to you is, your statement from October of the month, at the beginning of October of the month that you said when you opened the ZEPS fair, in which you said it was the best example of the success of this government. I remind you, Metal has gone bankrupt since then, Cimos is 21 closed, Željezara Zenica is under bankruptcy, Mine is on strike and even people have committed suicide because they can't get their earned pensions. Both the hospital and the doctors at the hospital and the technical staff are on strike, so, after yours, just since October 1st, it's not full for four months. In three months [[the speaker is warned on time]] As far as you're concerned. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much and I'll ask if you can answer this in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23289	Thank you. I give my word to Senator Senad Šepić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23290	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The issue is the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers – What has the BiH Council of Ministers so far done concretely to realise earlier parliamentary initiatives and proposals for amending laws that would correct current status, correct injustice and increase salaries for soldiers in the Armed Forces? I didn't finish the secretary, I have a short one, but I said I should finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23291	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23292	No, it's not, just to finish the chair. So, briefly just, here's the explanation. We need not in particular explain to ourselves how embarrassing it is for this country and for all of us that soldiers in the Armed Forces on average work for 650, 700 marks, whether people have such a salary as a soldier in the Armed Forces, those who would need us, will not give Bog tomorrow to defend anything, anything, for 650 marks. We've adopted a budget here, we've had huge remarks on one of those fiscal frameworks, on one frame of the budget. So we did it for a reason because we wanted to find a solution for these categories. So what am I saying today? So far, counterpart Salko Sokolović, I would say, has spoken about this a dozen times, has even proposed the law, so amending the law, has proposed initiatives. We have, as I say, so we have to have this kind of hearing that we all get involved on that side and this really isn't a question of position, of opposition, of second, of third, this is a question of some of our human dignity to that category of people. Here, I'm saying I'm sorry that for who knows which time we have to open this kind of topic. We're going to do this proposal and the solution that we have to continue to do, we're going to re-initiate the changes to the laws that we're going to fix, and I'd like to hear what's done on that side so far and we're going to be on that side to help finally make some step in this area.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23293	Thank you. Answer, Bosnia and Herzegovina Defence Minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23294	I appreciate the question. I must say that as defence minister and we in the Council of Ministers had no parliamentary initiative on this matter except for the conclusion that it was on the 22nd Joint Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly for Defence and Security, on the initiative of Mrs Borjana Krišto, which was supported by all members of the Joint Commission and obliged the Ministry of Defence to prepare appropriate amendments to the law in the near term, the Service Act, which concerned an increase in the number of years, because you all know that so far 35 is in a way limiting people, soldiers, or officers, and restricts them if they are not advanced in the service to remain in the Armed Forces of BiH. Based on this, the Ministry of Defence has prepared an amendment to the Service Act, which was adopted at the Council of Ministers, continues to be forwarded to parliamentary procedure. As for this second increase in salary for soldiers, we at the Ministry of Defence are based on the conclusions of the Joint Commission, so we have, in fact, analysed, seen that an increase in the salary of soldiers must be tight, so both soldiers and officers are connected together, because the small difference in coefficient is because by increasing the wages of soldiers in the future would have a higher salary than an officer. In this sense, an analysis was made which was delivered, of course before that, a positive opinion was sought which, we know because a positive opinion was required to increase the salary of police officers, which was also referred to by the Minister of Security, but because of the Fiscal Framework than, rather, the lack of financial resources could not have expected a positive opinion. And in that sense, this bill could not have been forwarded further to the parliamentary procedure, but as far as I know, Mrs Krišto has submitted an initiative that this bill is in the parliamentary procedure concerning the increase in the salary of soldiers and officers. That is what the Council of Ministers or better said, the Ministry of Defence through the Council of Ministers has done everything in our jurisdiction, respecting these fiscal, fiscal constraints. And, of course, if Parliament adopts an increased financial framework for the Ministry of Defence, we will simply be able to raise both the salary and the soldier and the officer and, of course, that we will have a satisfied soldier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23295	Thank you very much. Does the representative want to comment? Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23296	A brief chairman. So if it were followed a little more carefully, watched, listened, read, it would be seen that there are initiatives, there are conclusions, if you're going to honestly, this, Minister, you don't need a special initiative to realize that people who work for 650 marks, that it's not that. You're the Secretary of Defense, so if you had sent it here to us, here, I'd be the first one to fight to the end to make it happen. That's one thing. The second thing, if you had referred to the proposal in that sense when it was being made and negotiated the Fiscal Framework, it would have been your colleague, Minister Bevanda, another proactive role. So, don't make us, at this point, whether we had something in that form in writing or not, here I'm telling you, we're going to rebuild these initiatives, we're going to rebuild this bill that we had, we're going to ask and we're going to ask and we're going to do everything to make that kind of majority happen here and support that we really make one kind of positive...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23297	You have the law in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23298	We will support, therefore, solutions and here we help make the best solution. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23299	Thank you very much. Here's what we've exhausted the questions and the answers to. We're moving on to the agenda. As regards the amendments and additions to the session agenda, I would like to mention the following: from the agenda at the request of the Constitutional Commission: Point 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Salko Sokolović, Senad Šepić and Sadik Ahmetović, issue: 01-02-1400/17, of 09.10.2017. (second reading) Point 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Salk Sokolović, Senad Šepić and Sadik Ahmetović, Law No: 01-02-1-2884/17, since 14.12.2017. (first reading) Point 19. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 14.12.2017, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative calling on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to no later than 30 days from the date of adoption of this initiative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to amend and supplement the constitution of those cantons with the aim of ensuring the constitutional equality of Srbin, as well as to stop the canton, in which it has not been done so far, specify and ensure constitutional equality of the Bosnian and Serbian languages, and Latin and Cyrillic," issue: 01-50-15-54/17, link number: 01-50-1-2891/17. In accordance with the notifications made by the Committee for Foreign Trade and Customs, the following point 20 is added: Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 19.12.2017, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit an initiative in charge of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives College of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to convene a session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Parliamentary Assembly meeting to discuss and adopt the Strategic Rural Development Plan of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the latest within seven days of the date of submission of this initiative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives' meeting," issue: 01-50-12920/17. The agenda of today’s sessions is added: Point 15. Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, issue: 03/6-34-1-255/18, of 24.01.2018. Point 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Note of the Agreement on the donation of security clearance equipment between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the People's Republic of China, Act No 01,02-05-2-212/18, of 18.01.2018. In accordance with the request of the Constitutional Commission, point 7 which is now read – Statement of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of opinions on the Bill on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Borislav Bojić, Hazim Rančić, jasmin Emrić, Diana Zelenika, Damir Arnaut, Saša 24 Magazinović, Senad Šepić and Maja Gasal Vražalica, Law No: 01-02-1-2573/17, of 31.10.2017. (first reading) I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23300	I thank the chairman. On behalf of the Club of the Serbian Democratic Party, I propose that under regular number 14, we put a new item on the agenda, it would actually be the adoption of one conclusion in order for the Council of Ministers to provide us with information, and the conclusion reads: – It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Affairs to provide within 15 days information on all attempts, public procurement of passport books in the period from 2015 to today with solutions from the Commission to consider complaints about each of the purchases and any judgments of the Court of BiH. It is clear that we have a very serious problem, I hope, here, that this and the last open tender will succeed, but that we have a very serious problem, that numerous tenders have been annulled. I don't want to be a judge, but I think we should all see the paperwork here if the Board of Appeals was wrong. I am not saying that they are sacred cows, I will remind you that there are people who are being investigated and that the BiH Prosecutor's Office has informed us all here that one person from the Board of Appeal is being investigated for corruption. So, therefore, and I'm not saying maybe the IDDEEA didn't even set the conditions right and respected what... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, if you can secure order. So it would be useful if we had...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23302	Please be careful.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23303	The entire information of the Ministry of Civil Affairs so that we can see what it is and how we may be able to help to finally resolve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23304	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23305	I have a proposal to supplement the agenda for today's session. In fact, these days and today, we have been informed that, at the invitation of the State Minister, Mrs. Borovac, a several-day visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina tomorrow, a special adviser to the Secretary General of the United Nations for the Prevention of Genocide Adam Dieng Dieng. During the visit, it was announced that it would meet with a number of officials at the state and entity level, and tomorrow a press conference was announced, and a joint visit to the memorial centres in Potocari and Donjo Gradina, where the victims of genocide will be honored as said by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. Here we talked today, among other things, about the subject of young people leaving, and they leave, first of all, for two things, is security, and the other is business. Young people, like other citizens in this country, are looking for a guarantee that never again in this country some dark minds will create crimes and genocide and it is our duty to work on developing a new political culture, to prevent possible evil and to raise new generations in the spirit of tolerance and peace. With all this in advance, I propose that today we put into agenda a point, which is – Considering the parliamentary initiative on the strategy for the prevention of mass crimes and genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina, just before the secretary-general arrived, or his adviser in charge of the prevention of genocide. I remind you that I delivered this initiative more than a year ago and, behold, and one month, and that still the College did not refer it to the procedure. In this initiative, therefore, there is absolutely nothing controversial, nor is it limited to any group, but it is talking about doing it in principle for all citizens and peoples in this country. So we have a few options. One is to put today and adopt this in the agenda, the second is, I agree to that variant, that the College will discuss this issue at the first next session, which is legally and commercially delivered, and refer it to the regular procedure. And of course there remains a third procedure, if neither of these two variants fail, which is that I keep repeating this every month. But indeed, I repeat, what happens can find what is controversial in this initiative, if there is any reason to tell. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23306	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23307	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. For today's session, I propose a new agenda item – Information by the Council of Ministers on replies to the European Union Questionnaire with an emphasis on questions relating to the census. You all know that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has passed the Census Act, you are also aware that the BiH Statistics Agency as an administrative organisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina has implemented the list, that the list has been ignored by the European Monitoring Team and that the Constitutional Court has also ruled on Mr Bosić's application for the validity of the census, the latest census. According to all the information I have, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and entity prime ministers have been sent to the College or to this co-ordination as they call it in response and an illegal census of Republika Srpska's population. This is a classic, classic violation of the BiH Constitution, a violation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's laws, I would say this is both a safe and a criminal offence. This is also about issuing the interest of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issuing national interests, and this is a stamp on ethnic cleansing, given that 58 000 people are deleted from the record in this list. I heard in response to the Honorable Council of Ministers' Presidency that it was just some economic indicators to respond to a respected colleague, Saša. But here I will read, therefore, the political criteria, 26 Question 446. – Deliver statistics on the number of people belonging to ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities groups in your country. So it's about political criteria. And here I have, therefore, in Table 3 that he left the list, an illegal list from Republika Srpska. So, I ask here publicly – why can't this Parliament know what kind of answers have gone to Brussels? Who has the right to hide from Parliament what is a crucial, national and state matter? Is that secretly negotiated with the European Union? Why can't the BiH Commission for European Integration or the Commission for Foreign Affairs be aware of this? We have today reached a conclusion on the Foreign Affairs Commission to inform the Commission at one of the next meetings by the Chairman and Director of the Directorate for European Integration. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I see, uh, here we go. to ring the bell, but I'd have something more to talk about and talk about, but it'll probably be a second time more time. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I call this service to take this proposal with...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23308	Thank you, counsel. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23309	Thank you, gentlemen of the presidency. Well, since Parliament has made clear today to young athletes and young students to go from this country where they have no perspective, I do suggest that Parliament directs congratulations to a young man who found himself on Forbes's list of the most influential young people under 30, that is Jasminko Halilović, and that the Council of Ministers gentlemen organise reception because it is still a rare honor that can be experienced and very few people from this space have experienced being on Forbes's list of the most influential people, especially the most influential young people. In that sense, I've given this written proposal to share this item of the agenda, so here I am free to suggest and ask you to support at least this when it comes to young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23310	Thank you, counsel. If we understand it's not a new point, it was just some initiative towards...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23311	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23312	New point?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23313	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23314	We didn't get anything, please provide us with the material so we can make a statement. 27 I am concluding the debate, but I am also giving a five-minute break in order for the services to deliver these proposals in writing and so that they can be made known and finally set the agenda. Please proceed with the session. Since we have a quorum I find that the 56th session of the House has changed and complemented the agenda that you have now received in the materials. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes with the 53rd and 54th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Confirmation of appointment of Deputy Minister for the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Act No 01/7-34-3-187/18, of 16/01/2018; 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Borislav Bojić, Law No: 01-02-1-2209/17, of 13.09.2017. (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Aviation Act – Proposer: Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, No: 01-02-1-2397/17, of 09.10.2017. (second reading); 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and other fees in the judicial and prosecutorial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-2338/17, of 29/09/2017, with the opinion of the Committee for Finance and Budget; 7. Declaration by the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of an opinion on a bill on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Borislav Bojić, Hazim Rančić, jasmin Emrić, Diana Zelenika, Damir Arnaut, Saša Magazinović, Senad Šepić and Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalica, Law No: 01- 02-1-2573/17, of 31.10.2017. (First Reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the independent and supervisory bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1752-4/17, of 14.11.2017, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH; 9. Proposal for a law supplementing the Communication Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-2759/17, of 22.12.2017. (first reading) shortened procedure; 10. Report from the Joint Committee on both homes to achieve the same text of the Law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection and Well-being Act (proposer: Representative Predrag Kožul, Law No: 01-02-1-814/17, of 23.03.2017.) 11. Report from the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on the Fundamentals of Road Safety in Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Agent Momčilo Novaković, Law No: 01-02-11774/17, of 30.05.2017).; 12. Proposal for a Strategic Rural Development Plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina (2018) ( 2021.) – Framework document, materials of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01,02-28-108-2/18, since 16/01.2018; 13. Material of the BiH Directorate for European Integration: 28 (a) Information on progress in the process of meeting the requirements of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European road, (b) Report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the priorities of the 2016 Bosnia and Herzegovina Report for the period of January – June 2017, material number: 01-05-940-9/17, since 15.12.2017. (Realising parliamentary initiatives adopted at the 16th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 27.08.2015, and at the 19th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, held on 28.10.2015.; 14. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The legality of public procurement procedures in BiH institutions" – applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01,01/4-16-1-2870/17, of 12.12.2017; 15. Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, issue: 03/6-34-1-255/18, of 24.01.2018; 16. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Parliamentary Control (proposer: Temporary Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control, issue: 01,02-02-1348/17, of 26.05.2017.; 17. Annual training and training plan of members and units of Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces abroad for 2018 – applicant: BiH Ministry of Defence, issue: 03/1-03-2799/17, since 01.12.2017; 18. Proposal for a conclusion: "It is up to the BiH Civilian Ministry to provide within 15 days information on all attempts (public procurement) of passports for the period from 2015 to today, with solutions from the Board of Appeal for the examination of complaints for each of the purchases and any judgments of the Court of Justice" – Proposer of the point: Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, Act No: 01-50-1-15-56/18, of 31.01.2018; 19. "It is necessary to give recognition to Jasminko Halilović for listing Forbes's list of most successful young people and for the BiH Council of Ministers to organise a team reception" – Proposer Mirsad Đonlagić, Act No: 01-50-1-15-56/18, of 31.01.2018; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement (Balkan Strengthening Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-22851/17, dated 08.12.2017, 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of the State Programme of Activities for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 between the European Union, represented by the European Commission and Bosnia and Herzegovina, representing the Directorate for European Integration of the Council of Ministers, No 01.02-05-2-2852/17, of 08.12.2017; 22. Giving consent to ratification of the grant agreement between the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe, issue: 01,02-05-2-2871/17, of 12.12.2017; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation for Grant Assistance between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the People's Republic of China, Act No 01,02-05-2-2897/17, of 15.12.2017; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on cooperation in the field of tourism between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Hungary, Act No 01,02-05-2-2898/17, of 15.12.2017; 25. Approving the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Armenia on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic passports, Act No 01,02-05-2-2899/17, of 15.12.2017; 29 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on mutual recognition and replacement of driving licences, Act No 01,02-05-2-2919/17 of 19.12.2017; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Loan and Project between KfW, Frankurt on Main (KfW), and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH (loaner), and Republika Srpska, represented by the Ministry of Finance, and the Elektroprivred Republika Srpska (ERS), (the Agency for the Implementation of the Project) for the amount of 60.000.000.000,00 euros – Vjetropark Hrgud, Act No: 01.02-05-2-2921/17, of 19.12.2017; 28. The European Commission, Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Council of Ministers, and the Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur, the managing body of the transnational cooperation programme Interreg V - B Mediterranean, Act No 01,02-05-2-2-2946/17, of 21.12.2017; 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the Notice of the Agreement on the donation of security clearance equipment between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the People's Republic of China, Act No 01,02-05-2-212/18, of 18.01.2018; 30. Consideration of materials with a label, confidentially, act number: P-OV-07-03-10-100/17, of 24.10.2017 (Note: Material for this item of the agenda is, for confidentiality, available exclusively to a security officer of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and cannot be delivered. You can get an insight into the materials in office no. 215 (II floor) every day from 9 to 17 hours. Moving to point one, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23320	Well, here, very briefly. I thank you for this response to the Information on activities related to the recognition and replacement of driving licences from Bosnia and Herzegovina for people living and working outside, therefore, our citizens. I am pleased with this information, just one correction, please here, this kind of intervention where the countries with which are now listed are now in the procedure of signing this Agreement, that in this section relating to Slovenia from this category of urgency, therefore, in the middle of this priority it is shifted to a high priority. So there's a lot of reasons why I think this is the way to treat it. A huge number of people living in Slovenia today from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and if there is any need to put a special urgency on the completion of this procedure regarding the signing of this Agreement, then it should be done with Slovenia. So, with this intervention. I thank you for this answer I got.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23321	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić, comment. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23322	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Also, I would like to comment briefly on the response of the Public Undertaking of the Federation of BiH, which I finally received from my written question in November last year, which concerns investment infrastructure for the Union railway in 2017. I am partially satisfied with the answer, although it did not entirely cover my question by its content. It is very important to me, and as indicated in this brief response, that the project of training of the Union railway was finally launched. The Federation railways in this response stated that a public procurement contract, procurement and installation of equipment, the contact network on the UN railway, the Blatina-Bihać stock of 2.26 million KM, was signed 15 days ago, which is good and encouraging information that I welcome. I hope that this is only the beginning of the revitalisation of this year's forgotten and neglected European railway corridor, which should be a very important driver for the development of the UN-Sancanton, the wider region and international transport and trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23323	Thank you. Representative Mensura Beganović, comment. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23324	I thank the chairman. I've asked three questions to the Minister of Security which I don't see present here, and the answer I've received is something I can't really accept as a relevant answer. I got answers from those parts, from those institutions that aren't responsible for what I'm asking, and it's a disproportionate number of criminal parts of stealing motor vehicles between different, between these two entities, especially in the Canton of Sarajevo area. Should I continue to comment on this, or should I comment on someone else when there's a minister of security here, I'm not sure what's smart? 32 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Should I ask for an answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23326	It's your right, please contact me, you can write it down because these are written answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23327	I mean, I feel it's pointless to comment on something that the minister who sent the answer doesn't hear. I say thank you, I'll ask...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23328	Okay. You can write in a written way, too, to address that you want clarification in terms of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23329	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23330	Thank you very much. Representative Saša Magazinović, comment. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23331	When asked to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I asked which, where we are all members, whose international organisations and I got the answer, but I can't read it. And it's not the first time that's happened, I'm not just saying this about this answer right now, but it's often been given by representatives of the answers that are completely blurry. So people answered, there's this paper, it's not that someone, but I don't know how it's delivered from the Ministry. Anyway, here, whoever wants to look, you have everyone here, look at this third answer of mine, so I can't read what it says. People are sent, I can't read. So here is a technical request for such answers to be returned to the Ministry and said, "Come on live, send us so that we can read, nothing else."
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23332	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, comment. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23333	Thank you. The way you saw it, I got more answers, so I'll comment on some. The foreign ministry, an absolutely identical situation and a very common phenomenon, but only when the foreign ministry's answers are in question, blurry. I did my best, I managed to figure out something, uh, in that. 33 In any case similar to what Mrs. Kapetanović said, they refuse to give a concrete answer. The answer they provided shows ignorance, thoughtlessness, even insolence, this, and a complete lack of responsibility to Parliament, not only as a legislative body, but as a body carrying out supervision, not as a commanding body, but as a control mechanism, which is the role of Parliament in every country. And then you have one thing that's the opposite when it comes to the Ministry of Justice, and I really congratulate them on the answer. In this final case, they admitted the wrong, earlier misjudgement, recognized the error, and completely transparently provided all relevant information. It is clear from that response from the Ministry of Justice that they understand that the purpose of parliamentary issues is not to criticise, but to point to things that need to be done or that can be done better. So I'm really happy with the Justice Department's answer. I have asked a number of questions about international law of the sea from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and they have answered that they do not know how to answer these questions. But what is shocking is the explanation, I quote – The Ministry of Civil Affairs has no employees whose narrow specialty is international law of the sea, near quotes. Now I'm interested, if the Ministry of Civil Affairs has no employees whose narrow speciality is international law of the sea, then how is it that the Ministry and the Minister who is headed by this Ministry plan to deal with the Republic of Croatia on any issue concerning the demarcation at sea, given that the Republic of Croatia has a number of such experts, that is to be specific? And is it planned to work through the portal, through a statement, through letters? And then the question arises as to how, then, who wrote, prepared the letter Adil Osmanović sent to his colleague in Croatia, with a threat, truly shocking, that Bosnia and Herzegovina would withdraw from the border agreement with Croatia, which was signed by ricket Alija Izetbegović, who is extremely useful for Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests, if the Ministry of Civil Affairs, according to its own recognition, has no employees whose narrow speciality is international law of the sea. And the only conclusion that goes there is that once again, under quotes, someone will pay an agent 100,000 marks to take a few boxes out of the trunk in front of an international tribunal and embarrass the entire state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23334	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, comment. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23335	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I've got two answers to the question, uh, two questions actually. One question has been commented several times, and this is the working time of the Sarajevo Airport and since we have elaborated it, I only hope that in the procedures of the Sarajevo airport, there will be such opportunities to adapt it to the real needs if there are objective reasons for that. As far as this second issue is concerned, it was very important to me that a negative picture was removed from the public perception of the possible process of the Bosnia and Herzegovina basketball union, why the match of the Bosnia and Herzegovina team was not on TV. And then I followed that lead, and I came up with really amazing knowledge of trade, rights of transmission, especially when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina. This clearly pointed to a complete lack of legal, legal 34 procedures, and even happens to be that those who abuse these marketing rights by buying and exercising exclusive rights to transfer these games cover everything somewhere around 18% of the territory. In all other countries, it's between 60% and 70%. That broadcaster that buys those TV rights has to provide an opportunity somewhere up to 70% of the population in every country to watch it, to watch its show. That wasn't the case with us, and that's the answer I got. Of course, I'm happy with the answer, but I'm not happy with the fact that it can't change. And we have, and we have an amazing thing, but several times that emitter pays a fine of 250,000. And I don't mind that he pays a fine of 250,000, but he makes a million on that occasion, and it would make sense that the first sentence is 250,000 and that every other sentence doubles, up to the ban on broadcasting in a particular area. In that sense, I suggest the Ministry of Transport and Communication to deal with this issue and get rid of it legally. If it isn't the Ministry or can't, for whatever reason, it's going to be one of the subjects of interest, but since I propose laws that are of interest, they're not exactly, as I would say, politically founded, something I don't believe this Parliament will support, but anyway, we'll have a chance to meet with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23336	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Before we move to the next point, I, in accordance with Article 27(f), shall limit the duration of the debate to all remaining points of the agenda to five minutes. Now we move to point three, Ad. 3. Confirmation of the appointment of Deputy Minister at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Act No 01/7-34-3-187/18, of 16/012018. On 16 January 2018, the European Parliament The BiH Council of Ministers' Elections Committee was presented with a Odluika on the appointment of Goran Ćosić as Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs at the BiH Council of Ministers. The commission held a session, discussed all available information regarding the appointment of the deputy minister, and gave the House of Representatives a recommendation to confirm Goran Ćosić's appointment as Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs at the BiH Council of Ministers. And now, in accordance with Article 152(4), I call on the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić, to read us the Decision appointing the Minister and Deputy Minister in fact. It is the same article, and after that, we are having a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23338	Thank you very much. I will only read the Decision appointing the deputy minister at the BiH Council of Ministers named Goran Ćosić as Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs at the BiH Council of Ministers. 35 She, of course, takes effect on the date of confirmation of the appointment by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23339	I thank the president. So we've opened up a debate. Representative Asim Sarajlić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23340	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, only a brief explanation. So, we also received this Decision from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić, at our 8th session, held on 17 January, under the accompanying documentation submitted, i.e. the prescribed statement under Article 10.f. The Council of Ministers Act, signed by the Central Election Commission, official confirmation by the Central Election Commission that the person fulfils all the conditions laid down in Article 10c. The Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Final Report on the Truthfulness of Information made up by the State Agency for Investigation and Protection in accordance with Article 10d. Position (5) and (7) of the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. Afterwards, in accordance with our practice, we called on the Commission candidate and most of the votes of the present members of the Commission to, we found that Goran Ćosić met all the conditions prescribed by the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH for the appointment of Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs at the Council of Ministers of BiH. The Commission therefore recommends the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to confirm the appointment of Goran Ćosić as Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs at the BiH Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23341	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate. I now urge you to vote, in accordance with Rule 152(5) of the Rules of Procedure, on the confirmation of the appointment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr Goran Ćosić. Please make a statement. Of the 38 present – for 23, against 4, abstention 11. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have confirmed the appointment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs in the person of Mr Goran Ćosić. And now I call on Mr Goran Ćosić to make a solemn statement, so he can take office. I'm obliging myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23342	I'm committed to 36.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23343	that I will knowingly carry out my entrusted duty,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23344	that I will knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23345	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23346	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23347	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23348	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23349	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23350	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23351	Thank you very much. Here, once again, we congratulate the Deputy Minister for taking over the post of Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina. After that, we move to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Borislav Bojić, Law No: 01-02-1-2209/17, of 13.09.2017. (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23355	.. I'm sorry, I have one question that may not be directly related to... until tonight was planned to work... and at the College meeting we talked about working until 7:00? [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23356	Now, here's the deal. When it comes to the question of how much is it, we said that if there was a need for us to continue tomorrow, but today we didn't say that we would work until 19, or 20. At this point we will try to see because there are points where there are no debates, which are actually just acceptance by the report, we will try, if possible, and the session will end. That depends on all of us. If it doesn't, we'll be doing some reasonable time and we'll continue tomorrow. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23357	Just to clarify, Madam Chairman, this question was not so much about how long we're going to be working, but it was really indicative while the MPs from the SBB Club came down to congratulate the new deputy minister on the election, uh, you just ran the session like we weren't walking around, like nothing was happening, like it wasn't one solemn moment at least. And from that we have seen that you are in a great hurry to finish this session as soon as possible, but there is indeed something called respect for the MPs. You could have waited at least while we walked for 30 seconds, did you, to congratulate the man and it really wasn't right. Therefore, do not let your goal end this session as soon as possible mean that you forget some basic things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23358	Well, first of all, I want to tell you that you've abused the Rules of Procedure now. There is nowhere in the Rules of Procedure, nor is there a congratulator planned, and here with the position of the chairman, I congratulated the Deputy Minister on behalf of the entire House, so we congratulated the Deputy Minister and continued the 38 with the session and in no way, Your Honor, I am in no hurry, nor anyone. So, this session and the work of the session depends on the work of all and the conduct of all MPs, so please, here, in the future, take care of the business provisions at least you who are referring to them. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and other fees in the judicial and prosecutorial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01,02-02-1-2338/17, of 29/09/2017, with Opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget At the 54th session of the House, no negative opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget on the Principles of the Proposal for a Law was accepted, and the Committee was ordered to draw up a new opinion on the proposed Law in accordance with Article 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The Financial and Budget Committee delivered its opinion on 22.12.2017. The commission did not accept the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23360	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Well, I think this law needs to be a little bit of a commentary for a simple reason, maybe give specific instructions to the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry, which is the Ministry of Justice, to solve this problem which, as a tape, is already a long period of time. The reason why, I will state the reasons why the Finance and Budget Commission did not support this proposal, but rather to remind us that the current Law on the Payments of Judges and Prosecutors was adopted in late 2005 by the High Representative. The law on salaries and other fees in the judicial and prosecutorial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2005 did not provide for fees on transport costs, a warm meal and a separate life, and this was the reason why judges and prosecutors filed an appeal to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court in fact ordered that we resolve the issue. Viewing this discrimination as a reason why the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina gives elected officials, civil servants, the tenants the right to do so. The Council of Ministers' proposal removes this, conditionally said, discrimination, but produces other discrimination, and in that part of the other discrimination I would like to say, because it does not treat the compensation for vacation or regression which, according to the relevant law, remains 50% of their income to judges and prosecutors in Article 18, which is somewhere between 1,800 to 1,500 marks, and the fee, which means, this year's vacation or regression, as the people say, for elected officials, state officials and residents in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is 300 KM. I propose to the Council of Ministers that this proposal be withdrawn and that, in the second proposal, it also treats this part of the regress fee, to bring it down to the frameworks of civil servants and substitutors in the institutions, and that in such a way we resolve and discrimination, conditionally said, which is at this point towards judges and prosecutors, which, if adopted by this Law would now be created according to these elected officials, civil servants and tenants. This law costs about a million marks, I believe, if that part of the regress money was reduced so that it would cost even less and we could solve that issue. It is necessary to resolve this because at this point, the one, lawyers and through the lawsuits, whether, the judiciary and representatives of the judiciary and the prosecution come 39 to this fee and we, through judicial judgments, are paying them anyway. But it would be correct if they were to call for discrimination, if we knew that the Council of Ministers, based on the Law on wages and fees in institutions, passed a sublaw act and defined the size and the warm meal, and transport, and accommodation, and regulated and regress for us, to regulate and regulate for them. And I think that this, this is my recommendation to the Ministry of Justice, which is the legislator of this law, that the future solution works in a way, and that it satisfys the Constitutional Court's verdict, and that it eliminates this existing, emerging discrimination against elected officials, civil servants and tenants in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23361	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23362	Thank you. Did you say a word? I haven't heard the best of this, but it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23363	What are you?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23364	I thank Madam Chairman, however irrelevant, this one is requesting a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23365	At the club's request...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23366	At the request of the SBB Club of Pauses.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23367	At the request of the SBB Club, we give a 15-minute break. Dear MPs and deputies continue with the session. I invite the president of the SBB Club, Mr. Đonlagić, to explain the reasons for the request for a break. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23369	Well, first of all, we wanted to discuss at the club the information that we received after the session of the extended college whether it was true or not, because at the club we were presented that we would be working tonight until 7:00 and we accepted it as a fact. That's one thing, and the other thing, we think it's still an inappropriate relationship with the SBB Club, and we don't see any reason why we're in a hurry, we have thirty points on the agenda, we don't see any reason to rush, to schedule 40 sessions of February 20th, and I don't think tonight, however we're in a hurry, I don't think we're going to be able to finish thirty points tonight, no matter how much you want, but I doubt we can at some reasonable time, only if we stay until 4:00 in the morning.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23370	Thank you, Agent Đonlagić. I'm closing the debate at point six. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Declaration by the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of an opinion on a bill on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Borislav Bojić, Hazim Rančić, jasmin Emrić, Diana Zelenika, Damir Arnaut, Saša Magazinović, Senad Šepić and Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vražalica, Law No: 01-02-1-2573/17, of 31.10.2017. (first reading) The draft law was removed from the agenda of last session of the House at the request of the competent constitutional committee. On 30.01.2018, the Constitutional Commission again requested the extension of the deadline. The commission didn't set a certain deadline. I'm opening a debate, so the debate is about extending the deadline. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the independent and supervisory bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1752-4/17, of 14.11.2017, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23374	So at this point, it would be good if we had a bill promoter, but we don't. It's really unusual here, whenever there's an important proposal or a law or any other act, we don't have the ones that are proposing, and it's important that we have them. So, what's this law about? The proposal to amend and supplement the Communication Act provides for the introduction of a single number at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the number 112, and the number relating to emergency situations. Also, along with the number, it includes the creation of a single call processing centre at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I remind you that the motioner has completely come out of the constitutional jurisdiction and has done what the entities are now doing, so it is exclusively entity jurisdiction. Now in Bosnia and Herzegovina, two entities have their numbers, in Republika Srpska, the number 121 in the Federation is 112 and serves to report emergency events on the ground. How does that work? Five regional centres have been formed in Republika Srpska -- Banja Luka, Doboj, East Sarajevo, Bijeljina and Bileca. The task of these centers is that as soon as they receive an incident about an accident that happened, a fire, an earthquake, or I don't know what kind of accident, at the same time they're notifying the first entities that have to go out on the ground, the entities that go out on the ground are firemen or the Ministry of the Interior. And the other thing they have to do, in addition to notifying, so those who have to intervene urgently, inform the Republic Secretariat, or the Republic Operational Communication Centre 121, which, as far as its importance is concerned, forwards to the entity prime ministers. They decide further on the withdrawal of the Civil Protection Units or all that needs to be done in order to eliminate a certain accident that has occurred as soon as possible. Now, how did Minister Mektić come to think of it? He thought like this – when you call 112, let's say it happened, God Bog, an accident somewhere in Banja Luka, that moment through the Communications Regulatory Agency he will reroute the number to his service 112 and she will decide where with that call. It's just not possible. We won't allow that transfer of jurisdiction. If we cannot prevent it in the House of Representatives, it will prevent it in the House of Peoples. I ask you not to do anything again that may be the source of conflict between us. The entire area of civil protection is within the jurisdiction of the entity. The Department of Security doesn't have any resources, even if he had this number 112 he doesn't have any resources for further what he might do. I ask you to help this, 42, in the way the laws and the Constitution predict it, resolve it and not allow Minister Mektić to interpret certain rights and regulations in his own way and thus act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23375	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23376	Well, first of all, a series of things that are said here aren't like that and it doesn't happen the way a colleague said. I guess my colleague Pandurević will talk more about it, so I won't take my word for it. I just want to say one thing, if there's not one jurisdiction that the SNSD has passed on, and it's bigger than this, I'm going to vote both my legs and my hands against this. So if, in the work so far when they were in power, they didn't transfer any powers that were greater, more transmission than this jurisdiction, then I'm 100% with you. And now it would take me one three hours to count the things you've passed on, and I don't have a chance to say that. So I want to make it clear, so as far as I'm concerned, the law is in the first reading, I will support it both in the first and second readings, because there is no transfer of jurisdiction here.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23377	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23378	I will, as a correction to the wrong allegation, only read the title of article 27a, which is added, and it reads: Emergency services and a single European emergency number. So here we rise, not above the entities, but above the state and try to introduce a single European emergency number. Look at the number in Serbia. _________(?) 112. And the same thing is 112. People introduced it. What is the number in Croatia, what is the number in any Western state? Well, this one. And what are we talking about? I don't know, I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23380	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23381	Sir... has the Framework Law on the Protection and Rescue at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and it involves certain individual rights that would retain the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that is 43 mainly related to the issues of coordination of international contacts and co-operation, but no member of that Law implies that the establishment of an operational centre is transferred to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not in any segment of that Law. So, co-ordination with international..., operational co-operation and arrangements, but not transfer these areas. So Republika Srpska will find a way to defend it. Someone can say that, because that's what's going on with the way I am, that's what I'm good at. So those who have no argument ever but only have how someone once did it. Everyone should be responsible for what he did. I agree with that, but that the argument you have to make should be an argument, not a reminder of what someone was doing. I guess you should, I guess you're in power now because you're better, it should be because of that, but I don't think that condition has been fulfilled that you're better.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23382	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23383	Here's something I'm thinking, and I'm asking anyone who finds in this law some operating center, anywhere, not just at the level of Bosnia, wherever you want, I'm going, if he finds those words, I'm going to go to the top of this building and jump off it. It's sad that someone this age,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23384	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23385	You know, Mrs. Majkić, someone who's been sitting here all these years hasn't read the law that's been discussing. And this is not Minister Mektić's law, this is the Law of the Ministry of Transport of Republika Srpska. I am in front of me, and I call on all the interested media who are following this, I have a bill that was proposed by the Council of Ministers and which was held at the Council of Ministers at 119. Well, I also have all the amendments that have been sent, here they are, the Ministry of Transport of Republika Srpska. The amendments mainly referred to Article 2, let's say that the term ‘public communications operator’ is replaced by ‘telecommunication operator’. Further, attitude (2)..., which I have, not to bother my colleagues now, fully respected colleagues from word to word, with all the commas and points, prescribed. Requested removal of Article 3 from Draft – Article 3 from Draft deleted. In the present, after being moved, the current Article 5, the next, is now the fourth in the proposal, from word to word. 27.a) attitude (7), also the following suggestion was, from word to word, prescribed, and even the Council of Ministers reached conclusions, which I have here, to rewrite. And you know, everything that was written by the esteemed, and signed, Minister Neđo Trninić, from word to word. So the text was made up by the Ministry of Transport and Communications in the Republika Srpska government. And the Honorable Minister wrote there – if all of this is respected we don't mind that the Law goes into further procedure. So I don't know where this collapsion came from. I'm ready, here, to give everyone here the draft of the law, to give the amendments of Minister Trninić, if anyone finds one word that is not respected and embedded, before the law comes to us, I'm ready again to climb up to the top of the building and jump off it. So it's about pure populistism. There is no new operating centre here, but this Law only regulates a single obligation for all telecommunications operators to direct all calls to 112 without immediate compensation and to forward them to the competent authorities. Well, please, what, you won't, when someone in Banja Luka turns 112 will contact him telecom operator in Banja 44 Luci and forward to whom it's specified by entity laws, whether it's urgent, and watch out for additional absurd, many cars that we now import automatically in case, God Bog, car accidents call 112. What will he call in Republika Srpska? Do we need human lives to lose to accuse the Alliance of change, easily to laugh at you, but it is irresponsible to treat people's lives that way. Next, Article 18. The framework law on the protection and rescue of people and material goods from natural and other accidents in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Official Messenger 50/08), which was proposed by the then-reputed chairman of the Council of Ministers Nikola Špirić, and adopted by the SNSD, has just been defined by the introduction of a single European number. So what do you want, gentlemen? You're looking for a unique European number, you write a law, and then you say -- and, well, it can't, this is a transfer of jurisdiction. So is it such a cheap human life just to deal with us and that you can charge Minister Mektić with something? Find me a word with Minister Trninić's proposal which is not respected, one word, and here we are ready to vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23386	Thank you. Representative Dušaka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23387	So, I have a document relating to the Ministry of Traffic and Connections which explicitly says that the Bill on Supplements to the Law imposing a single call reception and processing centre, a unique number in Republika Srpska, is the sole jurisdiction of the entity, etc., not to read the entire text, therefore exclusively jurisdiction. We believe that the procedure should withdraw the consideration of the bill's proposal and return the mentioned activities to the frameworks of the regulations that define this area, respecting the entity's competences. Well, I don't know from what year a colleague reads that text, but it's a text that was done in the 11th month of 2017. So, I don't believe that someone invented and delivered it by heart, I have been signed by Minister Trninić. If she needs to get along, she needs to get along, but I'm saying what I got. So when someone in Republika Srpska calls on telecommunications operators, there's only service 121, that's the service of protection and rescue. in the Federation when you call 112 it's a service that will always respond to the Federation. How do you get this unique 112 number? So by rerouting the RAC order..., it must reroute all calls in Bosnia and Herzegovina to that number, and then return to Republika Srpska to those who need to do the job. Well, it won't work. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What's on foot?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23389	Please, please. 45 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23390	...to go to the scene...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23391	Please don't comment from the scene. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23392	I thank the chairman. I think Mr. Bosić could explain it best. There is no need for any forwarding up, down, but only the number 121 in Banja Luka is replaced by 112, a simple solution. A colleague, Novaković, if you'll excuse me. 25 July 2017 The Ministry of Communications and Transport at the Council of Ministers received a letter from Minister Trninić saying clearly and literally, here and his signature, meaning and respected, on July 19th 2017, it was filed, written in a number in Republika Srpska's Government 13.05/020-1350/17, and the Honored Minister says – if you respect all of this, on the basis of the above-mentioned Ministry of Transport and the links of Republika Srpska expects the proposed amendments to be respected, since they are in accordance with the applicable laws and other legal acts in this area. If comments and suggestions are submitted, please a colleague if you can, if the comments and suggestions provided in this letter are fully accepted by the Ministry of Transport and the links of Republika Srpska is of the opinion that the draft in question may be referred to the adoption procedure. Dot. All and one accepted. You know, what happened, Mrs. Majkić, Mrs. Željka Cvijanović said you would accept Mctic's law. That's true. Shame on you, you're willing to risk people's lives for the reckoning just... points with Minister Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23393	Why me to be...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23394	Please, I ask all MPs and MPs to behave in accordance with the Codex. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23395	We saw two memos here, a colleague named Majkić read one. It would be that the minister wrote two letters, one to the Council of Ministers, which was respected by the Council of Ministers, and then received an order to write another to SNSD lawmakers to reject the law. This is the only way I can understand it because we have two letters. One these people got from the Council of Ministers, the other from a fellow SNSD who, here, I didn't get what they got. It wouldn't have been bad if I had, maybe it would have been clearer for me, uh, because I have this first, I don't have this other one, so maybe I wouldn't have been wrong about this moment. So, we have, it's not incorrect, I think both allegations are correct, and the minister did fine, uh, write it once professionally, and then the second time politically, so let's go ahead and use whoever he wants... 46
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23396	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23397	I don't really like talking this way. Dear Mrs. Majkić, this is an essential ignorance of the functioning of the telecommunications system.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23398	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23399	Elemental. Let me say, if the call from this room, from this room at this point, the repeater in this room is the first or the nearest one on this building, the operator correctly knows that the repeater X113352/4 is the repeater from which that signal came and passes it to the nearest center, the nearest one. This isn't about any usurping, this is about something that speeds up the crisis proceedings. But that's what I'm gonna talk about in the discussion. We need to know how the telecommunications system works and nothing else. And today when you call from here from the number of Telekom Srpski goes through the repeater closest to him and he forwards that number where he needs your call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23400	Thank you. Representative Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23401	I don't know what they're reading, I think, but I think this is an unnecessary way of arguing here to convince ourselves that I have, therefore, this letter since 4 November of this year, where it says, therefore – the Ministry of Traffic and Connection finds that our comments have been partially accepted, while the essence remains the same, so we disagree with that finding in the light of the previous bill's proposal. We believe that the parliamentary procedure should withdraw the consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Communication Law and the mentioned activities to return to the scope of the descriptions that define this area by respecting the entity's jurisdiction. Here, let's say it goes now in the first reading or second of this Law, we have a law on protection and rescue at the level of Republika Srpska that says it's 121. So, what did we do? We're nothing. Unnecessarily, we now accuse ourselves of being a smaller or larger Srbin or... I apologize, Serbian business in the story. I think it would be necessary for the competent ministers to be entityal with the prime minister, if that's the minister of traffic and connections or someone else, uh, reconciling ourselves to come to a common solution. The passing of this law without this, without, therefore, compromise on this issue will have absolutely no effect. Which is why we need the law to argue whether it's a jurisdiction or not, this is an extremely important area. Is it possible to come up with a solution that would be acceptable under the BiH Constitution and entity constitutions? I don't see any problem that I need this much, this much anger, I'm not talking about anyone who suggested it, but no, this is a signature, so Minister Trninić, if he's lying, I immediately apologize for reading it, but not 47 I see, therefore, the key problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the unpreparedness for any dialogue or compromise and reaching a solution. If they come to a solution, we have absolutely nothing against it. So the SNSD will vote against this.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23402	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Agent, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23403	I was just about to say, uh, if I understood the colleague of Prodanović correctly, they would vote for in the first reading, and then they would see that dialogue, when he finally said no. So, counterpart Prodanović, a colleague of Majkić, says – the amendment of the Law on Emergency in Serbia should introduce number 112, this is four, five years ago, and in the context of this Chief of Emergency Sector of the Ministry of Serbia Predrag Marić explained to everyone how much more important the project is, which means this system, how faster than this one, and says man – that we had this system during the catastrophic floods last year would certainly have reacted much faster and been more effective, and that I am not going any further. So, no, they didn't say then -- we're not the European Union, we don't need it, we want to be unique, they said -- yes, although we're not the European Union, we want to get closer that way. What counterpart Pandurević told you about new electronic devices, not only cars, but also phones, it is so throughout Europe, and he will not ask and call the Centre to ask what number, if Bog doesn't let it happen, this one, in the area of Republika Srpska, but also calls 112 what is called in Germany, and in Britain, and in Italy, and in Serbia. Now, it would be clear to me that you have some particular argument, and your argument is that you've been instructed to behave and now you're confused because there's a different manual sent to another address. It would be clear to me that you will not have the same number as the Federation, but I do not understand that you will not have the same number that Serbia has. Give this support in your first reading, so try To crystallize who's what you sent to next session. [[the speaker is warned on time]] There.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23404	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23405	... in what the esteemed colleague Magazinović read, and I ask him to deliver it to me, because what if someone turns 112 in Little Zvornik, and then rings it in Tuzla, is it from Tuzla that should be returned to Mali Zvornik in Serbia? I mean, please don't transfer jurisdiction from Serbia to the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23406	Thank you. A colleague, Deputy Mladen Bosić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, buddy. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23407	First of all, I think there's a lot of misunderstanding about how this whole system works at all. It means that no matter where the call comes from, the operator that gets that call to 112 can direct it anywhere he's told. And here it doesn't say that it's going to go to a common data processing centre and it's not that kind of intensity of this law at all. So you can have ten centers in ten regions depending on which repeater or in which phone station your call comes in, and that's the matter of a deal that will work in that way. And the current centres that are doing this will continue to do so by making those calls coming to a network in Republika Srpska to be directed to the centre that is located, I don't know where, in Banja Luka, those going, I don't know, from the territory of Herzegovina, might be directed to Mostar or Sarajevo, as it already works now, I don't know. But it seems to me that this is about adopting one of the European norms, it's just standardisation for citizens' interests to remember more easily the number they have to call in case of an accident and I think it's this decision to introduce this number that won't take away any authority actually trying to make it easier for citizens to react in emergency situations. So, I think any opposition here is more politics to prove that someone defends the interests of the Republika Srpska from which someone wants to confiscate jurisdiction, and in this case number 121. If all of Europe goes that way, why would Republika Srpska look for another time. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23408	Thank you. Representative Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. You have the word, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23409	I'm just saying that this is, therefore, an area governed by law in accordance with the constitutional position of the entity. So I, whether the entity will come to an agreement on which... I absolutely have nothing against it, but until then we will respect the decisions and views of the Republika Srpska government. And I don't agree at all that this is wrong, because again, we have the Emergency Law at the level of entities in Republika Srpska, that this number is clearly defined as 121, each definition in another way, and that previously does not harmonize this area I don't think is in the interest of any citizen or its health. What the esteemed colleague Saša Magazinović is saying is, I mean, a completely unnecessary company. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, the invitation numbers in the Federation entity start from 03 and I don't know what number to..., in Republika Srpska it's 050, for the Brcko District, nothing happened, 049, I think they are, we all know. So if this area is arranged to be a unique way, it's possible, I believe what you're explaining, but I'm not telling this memo that it is. I don't think the need to do that, you understand, I don't think we need to step up here, I think a much bigger service would be to make the competent ministers clear on these issues and to say that we will come to a compromise in that way and that way in the interest of everyone. Will it be for the emergency service to help that call, as it was before I don't know it was, or whether it is now, I don't mind, but so right now I must say, we will vote against such a bill because no agreement has been reached in order to... If you're going to vote yes, I absolutely don't mind. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23410	Thank you. 49 Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23411	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The law proposed through Mrs Pandurević's discussion and through these replicas is quite enlightened. But there are still obvious doubts, so I will try to make some examples of those who have doubts to show what this is about. Do you remember the accident of a busload of passengers from the boat to Doboy, does anyone remember? And precisely because of this disharmonic call number for more than two hours, the unhappy people were waiting for their help, they didn't know it was 121, they called it 112. Does anyone remember that? Does anyone remember the accident of that van with the students visiting via the Pavlovic bridge from Serbia? You see, Pandurević, I know a lot of things, does anyone remember that? And again we had a situation identical, completely identical. Does anyone remember that my HDZ colleague would not look at me like this when there was an accident at Vitina when the citizens of the Republic of Croatia happened? Within 20 minutes, help arrived, because it was the same number 112. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, I'm just saying, I have to mention this, it's three eclectic cases. And this isn't about the transfer of jurisdiction, this is about a unique system of intelligence, and the jurisdiction is where it happens, doesn't know the accident local, the accident knows the speed and the reaction if anything happens. Because it's not just that, the fire, the flood, the earthquake, everything, and the whole of Europe has 112, a Europe that has full jurisdiction, I have to say it right now. There are regions in Germany and each one has its own. In Switzerland there are cantons, everyone has their own. In Belgium there are Flamanac and Valonac, but they have inside that division, each one has his own, and no one bothers. In France there are provinces, in Italy there are regions and no one cares that the unique number 112 is because not jurisdiction is transferred, but only information is directed It is a big difference. I suggest that we no longer discuss this much, but that the taught, we will adopt it at the time to enter the European system of intelligence and that is the necessity, because every device is now pretending to act automatically in the event of any extraordinary event and perhaps something will be made specifically for the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23413	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23414	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here's the short and I, in fact, think we are in front of the Independent Block that this is not a transfer of jurisdiction and I just want to say that this proposal for a law supplementing the Communication Act is essentially in line with European Union regulations, what Mr Bosić was just talking about, and that very fact that compliance with European Union regulations should, in some ways, stop us in further discussion. This Act adopts Article 26. Directive 50, which speaks of universal service and in such a way we will achieve, means that the whole of Europe, knowing this approach to communication is easier in a space where it wants to have such a service to communicate with those who can help it at a given time. Here's so much, just that, that one, once again here, I point us all in this direction that these are European Union regulations and that we should respect them, because here we want to be part of the European common space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23415	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23416	I thank the chairman. I think that some debate could have gone a long way in the right direction but it wasn't, because we've been dealing with examples here, and this is how it is in Serbia, this is how it is in the European Union, this, and we should have really kept very clear provisions of the BiH Constitution, which in Article III very clearly prescribes the competencies of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The list of competencies belonging to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not long, but to the extent that it defines Bosnia and Herzegovina's competences is extremely clear and, for example, from the Constitution, or Article III of the BiH Constitution, it is very clear that foreign policy is the exclusive jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And not to list other examples now, I will focus on the example that is important here, which is Article III 1 h) of the BiH Constitution, which says that the responsibility of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is to establish and function joint and international communications. Therefore, the establishment and operation of common and international communication funds. Communications cannot function unless you apply it in practice. And here what we have is a simple application in the practice of a telephone number that will be common both for the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is already common for most of it, it can be said, almost a whole part of the European continent, and beyond. And, here, when it comes to, let's say, the foreign policy that I was just talking about should be applied, it means that Bosnia and Herzegovina's jurisdiction over foreign policy is exclusive, and when you apply it to practice it means that Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions have the right to set up embassies. So, nowhere in the BiH Constitution does it explicitly say that Bosnia and Herzegovina can set up an embassy, but the BiH Constitution says that Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy is exclusive, and as a consequence of applying this to practice, you set up 54 embassies, i.e. diplomatic and consular representations as Bosnia and Herzegovina today. And it's exactly the same thing here the BiH Constitution won't, stop dealing with it, will not say that it is exclusive for Bosnia and Herzegovina to establish this phone number, but by saying that in the exclusive jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the establishment and functioning of common and international communications means is, out of it, absolutely, that everything regarding the application of this competence in practice is also the authority of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Next, the competent ministry prepared this proposal for a law that was fully in line, therefore, with these clear provisions of the Constitution of BiH, it submitted it to the Parliamentary Assembly for adoption, and the Parliamentary Assembly further put this proposal under consideration with the clear provisions of Article IV of the Constitution. So, I don't think it really is, I'm not going to say it's too high, but it's really going the wrong way to mention how it is in Serbia, so it should be some standard for us right now. I think the standard for us should always be as we have been resolved by our system, and the BiH Constitution gives very clear explicit jurisdiction over this issue to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are the only ones who have the right to regulate this 51 issue, and any deviation from that principle would essentially mean derogating the very clear competencies of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23417	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23418	Thank you very much. Now, I didn't have a special desire to get involved in this debate, but I have to say that I belong, here, to a political option which is unquestioned by the European way and European integration and I have nothing, therefore, particularly disputed with 112, nothing is disputed to me. However, if I have understood the problem Prodanović, so in order to solve the problem effectively, it means if it remains in force of the laws that are opposed, so I don't know how this proposal will go in the first reading, we'll see, but I suggest, therefore, that the issue be resolved. What good is the passing of this law, what good is the violence of things, I don't get it. So, one part of Republika Srpska's colleagues, seeing as how we're being taken away from political rights, as they say who they ate and the lizard is afraid, then sees, in all danger, because realistically it exists at every step of what we do, at least we know it. So I don't have a problem with 112 at all, but if it stays like this, then what do we get? As counterpart Prodanović said, we will get a new source of disagreement, a new source of confusion again, and will again be a problem called you 112 or 121 whoever you call, so you will have a problem if there is a law in Republika Srpska which, therefore, has failed to agree with people that, or with the minister, with the government, etc. So, I suggest that the question, if the law passes, to the second reading is resolved, so in the way that the colleagues said to be seen, so what can be achieved, is the center one, is five centres how it will work, so that these dilemmas are cleared, because it is no problem like this we can pass a law that will not work again, even if it was European.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23419	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving to point 10, Ad. Ten. Report of the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on the Amendment and Supplements of the Animal Protection and Well-being Act (proposer: Representative Predrag Kožul, Law No: 01-02-1-814/17 of 23.03.2017) The Act amending and supplementing the Animal Protection and Well-being Act was adopted by emergency procedure at the 44th session of the House of Representatives, held on 20.04.2017 and at the 33rd session of the House of People, held on 08.11.2017. The law was adopted in homes in different texts, and the Joint Commission of both homes was formed to achieve the same text of the Law. The Joint Committee submitted a Report 21.12.2017. The Commission reached agreement on the same text of the Law by adopting the amendment adopted at a session of the House of Peoples. 52 I'm opening a debate. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23421	I thank the chairman. I am aware, therefore, that this is a debate on the Commission's report, and I will remain on it, therefore, on what does not stand in the Report, and what is really a serious problem at the meeting of this Commission on Harmonisation and unfortunately this was not found in the Report, and I think it is absolutely necessary for the House to consider this question before it is obvious about this proposal, that is, this Report. Therefore, it is very clear at the Commission's meeting, which is also the tone record expressed on my part, that everything indicates that amendments and additions to the proposed Law will not enter into force until 1 January 2018, and I would remind you that the Law currently in force makes it very clear that the ban on the breeding of animals for the purpose of fur enters into force on 1 January 2018. So, among other things, I remind you, and because of the refusal of the chairman to schedule a session before the end of the year, we came into the situation that the ban came into force on 1 January 2018, so that this proposal for a law is absolutely now unambiguous, introducing an absolute legal uncertainty. The ban has been in force since 1 January 2018 and it is unclear how the Law in this text can now extend to 2028. I absolutely argue that this is legally impossible and I pointed out all of this at the Commission's meeting held a few days before the end of December, and when it all pointed out that at least one of the homes would not succeed in adopting this Commission's Report on Consensus and that these proposed amendments and amendments to the Law would not and could not take effect in time to put that deadline out of effect. So we now have a restraining order that's in place, and I've asked for this to be included in the report, not included in the report, and that's why I really think it was necessary for me to talk about it in the House session. And I think it is absolutely necessary that all MPs who vote today on this Law bear in mind that this created legal uncertainty and that we should not further deepen this legal uncertainty, but that, as it happened in the Republic of Croatia last year, we should simply allow this ban to continue when it came into force on 1 January 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23422	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23423	Here, I will say that, I was also a member of this Committee, on that commission is with most votes, so 5 votes versus one voice of fellow Arnaut, adopted the same text of the Law, so the law was adopted in such a text as was adopted on the House of Peoples, this, and it writes clearly in this Report. It is these arguments, a matter of legal certainty especially for people who are engaged in this activity, and have adopted the Law in a single home that is why more so today we adopt this Report here in the House to stop this legal uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23424	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23425	... refers to what Mr. Kožul said, uh, in the sense that this requires clarification, which is that the rules of the Rules of Procedure are very clear, that the law does not come into force when the subject of harmonisation is in the committees of two homes until both of them, until the report by the commission of both homes adopts it. Therefore, this did not happen at the House of Representatives until 1 January, the ban came into force on January 1st, and all those operating those farms began from January 1st to this day violate the Law. Even if this were to be adopted, I note that this Law would be violated well in February until it was published in the “Official Messenger”, so until it came into force, etc. So we have already come to a situation where legal uncertainty is in place and I really do not think it is appropriate to adopt this when the law has already entered into force, this current law has entered into force, i.e. the ban has entered into force.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23426	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23427	Thank you very much. First of all, I have to say that it seems to me that my colleague Arnaut is absolutely right, we have a problem a little bit more serious, it simply seems to me that I am in effect on January 1st, i.e. by the end of the law and by the way of banning me practically this law that we are about to adopt today, this law will practically not come into force. I don't know what the solution is, I have to say, it might be a good idea that before we adopt someone to legally interpret this, but I'm convinced that we, the ones who worked on this, are too late and we're practically not going to apply this law. Of course, I don't think it's too bad that we won't apply it, I have to say that I personally am glad that it, which will not be applied, because I think that there really was enough time until 1 January 2018 for all those who are dealing with these deals to make adjustments. So, the Law has given us enough time, and I have participated in my time when we passed this law and when we weigh this time, and I think we've taken the time it takes for manufacturers to adapt to the application of this Law. I stand in the position that what we're doing today will not yield results, or that it's meaningless, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23428	Thank you. Representative Fehim Škaljić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23429	Thank you. I, in this dimension in the debate today, approach in a different way. In 2008, for a reason we gave the deadline of 10 years, expecting, because then it was real, that in 2018 we would be deep in the European way, we are now at the beginning. Every job we have is precious, we don't have some spare capacity, and it's not a pain for the current phase of our trip to the European Union. We can look here for the legal dimensions of a variety of species, but what's safe right now is a number of people living off that job. In the application of Akia, we need to agree within these standards, but that is not what the binding side represents at the moment. That's why I'm inclined to say that the deadlines we expected would be the pace of our admission into the European Union, and 54 today we know perfectly, according to what Brussels is telling us, that even in 2025 it won't be, there'll be another. Then I'm inclined to look for modals to get these people an extension of that deadline I don't know if it's three years, is it five, is it ten years, but I don't see in economic terms justification, or see in ours, in our responsibility to apply Akia that as a matter of priority. Our goal is to protect every job, and today we have a part of our jobs... I'm an advocate to end it, but not in a way to cut it now, because it's not our condition. And so I'd like to ask everyone to think about it together, it's worth allowing people to live, we haven't been able to create conditions that our inflow of investment is such that there's a labour market that allows us to choose a job that will work, a number of people are self-initiatively moving into this, it's not a long century, but I'd give them more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23430	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23431	I did prepare for this law, so I'd ask Damir to listen to this fellow, and I didn't think I was discussing it, but this goes far and wide, it goes all the way. It is not a unique legal regulation in the European Union, period, completely different from country to country, point. Do you know where the largest mall of fur trade, grown fur in Europe, is? The city and port are called Šcecin in Poland, which is in the European Union. Do you know who the biggest fur manufacturer is? Finland, in the European Union. How come, they are still in the European Union, regardless of Bregzit, they have two laws, one in Scotland, the other in England, completely different. Or, now I'm coming to our area, I'm curious how they're going to survive on the south side of Bjelašnica hilly without fur in the winter, who's been through it, and the winds and this cold well knows that without it it it's impossible. We want to impose something here that isn't even applied in this civilized Europe, it's about the growth plan.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23432	Please, Your Honor, if you would just stick to the agenda, because the debate on the report has been differently adopted...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23433	Well, I'll... and according to the report we need to know, no, we need to know that we belong to a country that owns and that part of the air conditioning that requires the use of fur. But don't lie to the devil if it goes on like this soon either, madam, you won't be able to wear those beautiful leather shoes, because it'll all be banned, because it's also from some animal. But since it's gonna be like that, you won't be able to eat that delicious meat in this restaurant either, because it's also from some animal, and so on. Europe has given us a slightly different option, because it is in the European countries that legislation is different and do not want to be introduced to us by a law that is not like that throughout the European Union. This looks like Family Law to me, when it's been prescribed Finnish, and where we have inherited it from our aunt's grandchild, so his son-in-law, as an example, is according to Finnish legislation, which in the traditional law of these areas is inapplicable. They almost made us have that kind of family law, that's what this looks like to me. Thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23434	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23435	I thank the chairman. You know very well that the agenda is on the agenda under point 10. The Joint Commission's report, and you know very well, although as I saw you had a very good time there, this, while you were listening to Mr Backović, that he absolutely did not speak about the Joint Commission's report, nor did you refer to any part of it, whether he was listed or who was left out of the debate, etc., etc. But all of this definitely contributes to the deterioration of your credibility when you apply different arches and not to MPs, but regardless of whether you like what the MP says or doesn't like, and Mr Backović is the best example of it, you know to be very incorrect to him, but you also know how to be very flexible to him depending on what he's talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23436	First of all, if you have listened carefully, I have warned my esteemed colleague, Backović, that he does not adhere to the agenda, but now you have abused this point and also talked about what is not the Joint Committee Report of both homes. Predrag Kožul, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23437	I invite all of us to stick to the agenda and adhere to Articles 128 and 129. Rules of Procedure. A fellow Arnaut in his first presentation went outside the Rules of Procedure, so, here, I invite all of us to return to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23438	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23439	Dear fellow Damir, you know that I respect you and you know that I respect you, but I said when I was warned, in line with the agenda point, because we're going to have big problems here, instead of developing we're going to shut down, you won't, you or anyone, or anyone, stop your wife wearing that polar fox in winter, and she's somewhere, I'm not saying that yours is, I'm saying,
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23440	Please, counsel. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23441	but that's the way it is. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23442	Please, counselor, don't let us warn any further. We've exhausted the agenda on this point. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Report from the Joint Committee on both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on the Fundamentals of Road Safety in Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Representative Momčilo Novaković, Law No: 01-02-1374/17, of 30.05.2017) The Law on Road Safety in Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted at the 50th session of the House of Representatives, held on 26 July 2017 and at the 33rd session of the House of Peoples, held on 08.11.2017. The law was adopted in homes in different texts, and the Joint Commission of both homes was formed to achieve the same text of the Law. The Joint Committee submitted a Report 21.12.2017. The Commission reached agreement on the same text of the Law by adopting two amendments adopted at the House of Peoples. I am opening a debate on the Joint Committee's report on the text of the Law. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to point 12, Ad. 12. Proposal for a Strategic Rural Development Plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina (2018) ( 2021.) – Framework document, materials of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01,02-28-108-2/18, since 16/01.2018.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23445	I'm sorry, Madam Chairman. So, I have to admit that I was on the occasion as a member of the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs that I might be discussing some of the things that I'm going to say here today, on this Committee, so that I might set you free, not to take away your valuable time, but because of the duration of another commission, I arrived when that point was finished, so I wasn't on the occasion, but it doesn't change anything at all because something should be said today. So I'm also having a dilemma about whether to say this because I know that we barely got to this strategy, so, and I know what it means in some way, so, for everything that follows us and what it allows us to do when we adopt it, and I hope that in this form, at least for this first time, it will be enough to open up processes for us, to open up positions, that is, that we've been dreaming about for a long time, or we're discussing, etc. However, of course 57 to immediately remove the dilemmas that, as far as I'm concerned, precisely because of what I said, I will not be left behind by my support to the Rural Development Strategy, but there are things really here that, in my opinion, should be seen and arranged, if possible, in some future period, and that is, above all, that rural development is not just agricultural and livestock production, which prevails in this strategy, at least as I see it. So, very little attention in this Strategy is paid to what rural development really means, it means a lot more, it's infrastructure, it's a lot of things, some of it is here and mentioned, but not enough, also through the analyses that are made here and through some solutions that will come out of it, and you don't see enough from this Strategy. I mean, I'm not an expert, I have to admit, from this area, and maybe somebody's gonna smile a little bit at what I'm talking about, but, well, this strategy doesn't show what's going to happen in some parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for example. to encourage, encourage, which it will not, which somewhere it can and may not, what it will look like, is this picture of the rural development of Bosnia and Herzegovina in some future, at a time when it is envisaged here, to what the point will be, what the authorities will react to this Strategy, to the obligations from it in certain parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina under certain powers, etc., etc. It's a huge lack of this strategy, but again, if it's enough for those of us who expected it, I don't mind. But let's just say, I hope you don't get it wrong, too, that in many parts, on pages 8, and on pages 9, on the pages of this, this Strategy, let's say, 19 or pages 22, etc. You have a lot of text, a lot of parts in which you needed to install a picture from the county. And since it's not built-in, so you only have the authority of that state, let's say the equipment of agricultural holdings, so it says there's no data. Well, the difference in the amount of a possible profit of three million to eight million, that's the difference of six million, so that's just the power of it. Well, I don't know about aquaculture sites, fish development, shellfish, and just like that, too, because I guess that's what the Strategy needs to find. So, he lets out these things that I'd be free to do, if the Ministry accepts it, deliver in writing, not take up a lot of time, so looking back on this, some of what I said, which is why I'd suggest two conclusions and hopefully they won't harm this strategy, and that maybe it'll just help make it even better. First of all, I would like to propose a conclusion that reads: – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers of BiH to report to the House on the effects and achievements of this Strategy by 30 June 2018. I mean the initial one, so maybe I'm unclear here, when we know why we brought it in and why we bring it in and what we expect from bringing this one. Others: – It is up to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to analyse discussions on the topic "The Strategic Rural Development Plan of BiH", and informs the House about the need to supplement the Strategy or offer an addition. I know that there have been some discussions here, they are also listed here in the Strategy, but here, I expect that today there will be a debate from fellow MPs, if not, therefore for me, I am prepared, for this second conclusion to deliver something that I meant in writing to the Ministry. Of course, I said I would support the Strategy, but it seems to me that she is not enough to actually make which are expected of this document. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23446	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić, debate. Here you go, counsel. 58 Thank you. Representative Fehim Škaljić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23448	Thank you. This document should be adopted, it is a framework document and it speaks enough about rural development. We haven't been regulated, there's a lot to supplement, but we have to start from something, I think this is progress, and in that sense we need to get support. It would be a shame if we stayed on this, if he did not experience his development, from the framework document we became a document of operational development and action. But I believe that needs make us do it, should be supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23449	Thank you. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23450	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I congratulate the Council of Ministers on the fact that finally after a series, a number of years have come a very important moment or the fact that the Rural Development Strategy has been adopted. We who have been in these homes for a long time remember many failed attempts to come together to a strategy with which both entities will be agreed. I think that this document as an initial document, which has repeatedly been requested by the European Commission and warned us about the necessity of adopting such a document, represents a great success, a great encouragement for me, especially in the face of the fact that, by working this report, key aspects of access and the method of its implementation are written in the paragraphs. Well, examples of work in sub-measures are listed, according to support for young farmers and young entrepreneurs in rural areas, support for gender equality and support for agri-environmental protection through promotions, training and certification of 59 producers from good agricultural practices and environmental practices, which our agricultural producers needed very much. I think that their own concern about the fact that they intend to conduct certain programmes to take account and educate farmers on maintaining the fertility of land, animal welfare and employment, at this point seems to me to be the most difficult employment categories of residents, which are young people and women, especially middle-aged women over 40 and over, is a great message and I am indeed a great player, headed by Minister Šarović, and the entity ministers of agriculture, and at all the Council of Ministers, and all those who participated in making such a document, congratulations and I hope that we will be able to do the other strategies that are necessary for our approach to the European Union, especially in the strategy of renewable, renewable energy sources. I think that strategy, for example, would be very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I want to congratulate.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23451	Thank you very much. Representative Mensura Beganović, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23452	I thank the chairman. Here, I am also expressing my satisfaction that this Strategy has appeared, because I have long been discussing exactly how much strategic documents at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina prevent us from accessing funds, by very generous means of pre-accession funds. I'm just going to point out a little fear here. I would say, not to be what they say ominous, but let's say, Chapter VI in this strategy, these are strategic measures, with a whole series of groundwork being elaborated very, pretty detailed, I would say, with the end-users that are... the selection procedures and criteria, the monitoring indicators, where, of course, all of this is to be done relying on financial resources. If we fail to take the second step, which my colleague Emrić was talking about, and that is to address the issue of a unique point to which the incentive funds are being paid and the incentives are being paid, then some of this will be truly and decisive. So, the strategic document should be adopted without further delay, but continue working on this so that we can reach conditions for withdrawing funds from IPARD funds.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23453	Thank you very much. Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23454	Two sentences. So this is an important thing, this should be supported. I thank all the people at the discussion, I won't say anything further, but then finally this is on the agenda and it's time for us to back this up.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23455	Thank you very much for all the discussion. We're closing the hearing, no more reports. Moving to point 13, 60 Ad. 13. Material of the BiH Directorate for European Integrations: (a) Information on progress in the process of meeting the requirements of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European road, (b) Report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the priorities of the 2016 Bosnia and Herzegovina Report for the period of January – June 2017, material number: 01-05-940-9/17, since 15.12.2017. (Realising parliamentary initiatives adopted at the 16th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 27.08.2015, and at the 19th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, held on 28.10.2015) The House College asked the Council of Ministers to provide information. The BiH Directorate for European Integration delivered the required material in 13.12.2017. The College designated the Joint Commission for European Integration as responsible for examining those documents. The Commission submitted its opinion on the materials on 16 January 2018. The commission did not receive information on progress in the process of meeting Bosnia and Herzegovina's requirements on the European path. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The legality of public procurement procedures in BiH institutions" – applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01,01/4- 16-1-2870/17, of 12.12.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23464	So, I have, I wanted to say what you said, the chairman, about this relationship with this agreement, we have a negative view of the Foreign Affairs Commission. We have according to this point, we want to follow the activities further, to invite people from these banking sectors and institutions to make one, one meeting, one debate and on the Foreign Affairs Commission, to give us a cause. And I don't know what the status of this point is, are we going to vote on this, can this move, postpone what's called a plea? What can we do now in this sense to preserve this topic and to make use of all of us? _________(?) 63 [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, so I would ask here if this could be delayed, uh, a statement, especially because there was no vote for the Foreign Affairs Commission, 5 votes were against, 1 was abstention. I'm in some kind of dilemma right now, so maybe the secretary will tell us what we can do procedurally. If we can delay the statement of this Agreement, I think you would do a good thing, and also a service to us who, on the basis of this topic, have opened the space to try to do something about Swiss people, about a different relationship between the banking sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23466	Agent, can we do this, since you suggested, we've got, so, opinion and we have and we can plead. If you want to suggest a certain conclusion, you write it down and we will plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23467	Well, here, I propose a conclusion – to postpone the plea under this Agreement until the conclusion of the conclusions from the Commission is completed...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23468	Deliver it to us in writing as well. Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on these agenda points. Before I go to the 30th agenda, please, I'm giving a break an hour. I note that the material for this item on the agenda, point 30, was made available solely by security officers of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and that it is not possible to present it. You could have made an insight into the materials in Office number 215 second floor. Since the material for this point has a “confidential” mark, it is closed to the public, so I ask the guests to leave the hall. Before we take a break I would like to remind you, please just listen to the end, I would like to remind you that during the discussion of a point marked "confidential" it is forbidden to enter a mobile, laptop and other equipment that is possible to produce audio or video. Here, just yet, please, just more clarification, this hour-long break to prepare for the debate on this point 30 is also a debate to prepare the vote, this, after this session is over. So we use this break for an hour to do that. Here, thank you very much, break means, I'll see you here in...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23469	Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23470	Come on in, Agent Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23471	I think it's in everyone's interest, if you can do it like that, to take a 15-minute break and make a statement about the absolute points of the agenda so far, and to start 64 of the next session, we use the hour to make this the right point, the one that's secret, closed and that's how it ends. If he's okay with the Kolegijum, I don't know if you understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23472	But, no, no, we have to finish the session, we have to finish all the points to vote. _________(?) So let's make a statement...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23473	Well, it's not, we're to make a statement about this proposal, to postpone the discussion of the 30th item of the agenda and to consider it, therefore, that we are considering it before the beginning of the next session of 20.02, and that you are now giving a 15-minute break to absorb and declare these 29 points of the agenda. I think it's commercially possible. [[Common discussion]] Manny, I think we can... and that's more practical in the sense of emptying the room and everything. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23475	I'd love to, but here's the warning that we got this and it's important information that we need to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23476	Well, we won't, then when we have a session...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-01-31-1.u23477	And if that's the problem, here's how much time we're wasting while we consult about the vote an hour will pass, let's not cause any trouble, see you here at 22:10, here. We can start with a vote, so please prepare. Let's go to point one. – The adoption of the minutes from the 53rd and 54th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. We're voting on the adoption of the record from the 53rd session of the House. Of the 35 present – for 35, against nothing, abstentions nothing. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted a record from the 53rd session of the House. We are now voting on the adoption of the minutes from the 54th session of the House. 65 Please make a statement. Of the 35 present – for 34, against nothing, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the zapislnik from the 54th session of the House. Moving to point 4. – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Borislav Bojić, Law No: 01- 02-1-2209/17, of 13.09.2017. (second reading) We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Of the 35 present – 23 for, 9 against, 3 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have adopted a bill amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by MP Borislav Bojić. We're going to point 5. – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Aviation Act – Proposer: Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, No: 01-02-1-2397/17, of 09.10.2017. (second reading) We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Of the 35 present – 22 for, 8 against, 5 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Aviation Act, MP Aleksandra Pandurević. We're going to vote on point 6. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Other Refunds in the Fatal and Prosecutorial Institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-2338/17, since 29/09/2017, with the Opinion of the Finance and Budget Committee. We vote, I remind you, on the negative opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget. Of the 35 present – for 16, against 16, abstention 3. There's no general majority. I find that we have not adopted the Opinion and in this case the legislative procedure is suspended in accordance with Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure. We move on to a statement on point 7. – Statement of the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of an opinion on a bill on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representatives Borislav Bojić, Hazim Rančić, jasmin Emrić, Diana Zelenika, Damir Arnaut, Saša Magazinović, Senad Šepić and Maja Gasal-Vražalica, Law No: 01-02-1-2573/17, of 31.10.2017. (first reading) We are voting on the adoption of the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. The text of the conclusion says – The House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers, the Central Election Commission, the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and the fight against corruption to deliver opinions on the proposed bill. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Of the 35 present – 29 for, against nothing, 6 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the text of the conclusion. We are now voting on setting a new deadline for the delivery of opinions until those institutions deliver their opinions. 66 Please make a statement. Of the 35 present – 30 for, against nothing, 5 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have set a new deadline for the delivery of opinions until those institutions deliver their opinions. We're going to point 8. – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the independent and supervisory bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1752-4/17, of 14.11.2017, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH. We are voting on a negative opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee. Of the 35 present – for 12, against 19, abstentions 4. There's no general majority. I find that we have not adopted the Opinion, and the competent Commission is obliged to draw up a new opinion in accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure. We move on to a statement on point 9. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Communication Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-2759/17, of 22.12.2017. (first reading) A shortened procedure. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Of the 35 present –24 for, 5 against, 6 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have adopted the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Communications of the Council of Ministers' Proposals. We move on to the 10th point statement. – Report of the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection and Well-being Act (proposer: representative Predrag Kožul, Law No: 01-02-1-814/17, of 23.03.2017.). We're voting for adoption of the report. Of the 35 present – for 19 against 5, abstentions 11. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the Joint Committee Report of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection and Wellbeing of Animal Proposer Predrag Kožul. We move on to a statement on point 11. – Report from the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on the Fundamentals of Road Safety in Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković, Law No: 01-02-1-1374/17, since 30.05.2017.). We're voting for adoption of the report. Of the 35 present – 27 for, no, 8 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the Joint Commission Report of both homes to achieve the same text of the Road Safety Bases Act in BiH, the proposing representative of Momčilo Novaković. We move on to the declaration of point 12. – Proposal for a Strategic Rural Development Plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina (2018) ( 2021.) – Framework document, materials of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01,02-28-108-2/18, since 16/01.2018. We are voting on the conclusions of MP Nikola Lovrinović. Should I read the conclusions? Of the 35 present – 19 for, 12 against, 4 abstentions. 67 In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the text of the conclusions of MP Nikola Lovrinović. We are now voting on the adoption of the Strategic Plan. Of the 35 present – 33 for, no, 2 abstentions. In addition to the general and enthusiastic majority, I agree that we adopted the Strategic Rural Development Plan of Bosnia and Herzegovina (2018-2021).). Moving to point 13. – Material of the Directorate for European Integrations of BiH: (a) Information on progress in the process of meeting the requirements of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European road, (b) Report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the priorities of the 2016 Bosnia and Herzegovina Report for the period of January – June 2017, material number: 01-05-940-9/17, since 15.12.2017. (Realising parliamentary initiatives adopted at the 16th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 27.08.2015, and at the 19th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, held on 28.10.2015. We are voting on receiving the material of the Directorate for European Integration. Of the 35 present – 19 for, 7 against, 9 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have received the knowledge of the BiH Directorate for European Integrations. Moving to point 14. – Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The legality of public procurement procedures in BiH institutions" – applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01,01/4-16-1-2870/17, of 12.12.2017. We are voting on the adoption of the Report with the Opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget. Of the 35 present – 25 for, against nothing, 10 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the Report with the Opinion of the Finance Committee and the budget on the implementation of the impact review on the subject: "The legality of public procurement procedures in BiH institutions". Moving to point 15. – Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, issue: 03/6-34-1-255/18, of 24.01.2018. We are voting on the adoption of the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities. Of the 35 present – for 30, against 5, there are no abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted a Decision appointing members of the National Minority Council. Point 16. – Appointing three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Parliamentary Control (proposer: Temporary Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control, issue: 01,02-02-1348/17, of 26.05.2017.). We are voting on the appointment of Nermina Kapetanović, Nikola Lovrinović and Jovan Vukovljak to the Joint Commission of both homes. 68 Out of 35 present – 20 for, 5 against, 10 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have appointed Nermina Kapetanović, Nikola Lovrinović and Jovan Vukovljak to the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Parliamentary Oversight of Proposers of the Interim Joint Commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight. We move on to a statement on point 17. – Annual training and training plan of members and units of Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces abroad for 2018 – applicant: BiH Ministry of Defence, issue: 03/1-03-2799/17, since 01.12.2017. We are voting on receiving the knowledge of the Annual Training Plan. Of the 35 present – 28 for, 5 against, 2 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have received the annual training plan and training of members and units of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces abroad for 2018. Point 18. – Proposal for a conclusion: "It is up to the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to provide information on all attempts (public procurement) of passports in the period from 2015 to today, with solutions from the Board of Appeal for the examination of complaints for each of the purchases and any judgments of the Court of Justice" – Proposer of the point: Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, Act No: 01-50-1-15-56/18, of 31.01.2018. We're voting on the adoption of the conclusion. Of the 35 present – 30 for, 4 against, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted the conclusion of MP Aleksandra Pandurević. Moving to point 19. – "It is necessary to give recognition to Jasminko Halilović for listing Forbes's list of most successful young people and for the BiH Council of Ministers to organise a team reception" – Proposer Mirsad Đonlagić, Act No: 01-50-1-15-56/18, of 31.01.2018. We are voting on the adoption of this proposal. Of the 35 present – 28 for, 5 against, 2 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the proposed proposal that requires the recognition of Jasminko Halilović. Before we move to these other points, 20th, we have a proposal from Senad Foreign Affairs Committee to postpone the statement on item 20 of the agenda in order to discuss with representatives of the banking sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the users of banking services, in particular the Swiss Association. Please, first of all, let us be clear on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Šepić. Of the 35 present – 27 for, 7 v, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have adopted the proposal for the conclusion of Senad Šepić, so we do not plead on point 20. We are now voting on a proposal to make a statement on points 21 to 29 in the package. Of the 35 present – 31 for, no, 4 abstentions. 69 In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted a proposal to make clear on points 21 to 29 in the package. We are now voting on granting consent to ratification at points 21 to 29. Of the 35 present – 34 for, no, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have given consent to ratification at points 21 to 29. Moving to point 30. – Consideration of materials with a label, confidentially, act number: P-OV-07-03-10-9-100/17, of 24.10.2017. We're voting on the adoption of material. Of the 35 present – 25 for, 4 against, 6 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that we have adopted material marked "confidential". This concludes the 56th session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next House session is planned for 20 February 2018. I wish you a pleasant rest of the evening and thank you for your cooperation. Session completed at 22:40 p.m.
