ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4171	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, honored guests, continue with the 39th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The meeting invited our regular guests: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives and the Agency for Postal Traffic, the Council of National Minorities, the Board of Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Stays in Institutions, the treatment and respect for human rights of persons over whom criminal sanctions and other measures have been imposed in the BiH Court of Justice's criminal proceedings, the foreign courts for the acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina law and representatives of international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House. The session is attended by 15 delegates - 5 from Bosniak, 5 from Croatian, 5 from Serbian people. Delegate Sead Kadić referred a question in writing to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Security Minister, which was forwarded to the minister. Delegate Mario Karamatić received an answer to the delegate's question at the 33rd session of the House of Peoples. I'm asking them now, now I'm asking my colleague Karamatić if he's satisfied with his answer? Mario
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4172	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4173	Gesticulation makes it clear that, because of the stenogram, this is what I'm saying, he's not happy. Thank you. In order to continue the 39th session, I propose the following amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 37th and 38th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, No. 02-02-1-629/18, of 12.03.2018; 3. Request by delegate Halid Genjac to consider the Amendment and Complementary Act on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina under emergency procedure 2 in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, No. 02-02-1-1028/18, of 20.04.2018; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons who report corruption in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: delegates Bariša Čolak, Halid Genjac and Darko Babalj, Law No: 02-02-1-2687/17, of 22.11.2017; 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Criminal Procedures of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Delegates from the Club of the Croatian People Ljilja Zovko, Bariša Čolak, Zdenka Džambas, Mario Karamatić and Martin Raguž, Law No: 02-02-1-794/18, from 21.03.2018, consideration by a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Independent and Supervisory Authorities of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Police Structure (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1752-4/17, since 14.11.2017; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-697/18, of 07.03.2018, 8. Proposal for a Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-377/18, of 23.03.2018; 9. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-205/18, since 26.03.2018; 10. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 02-02-1-1830/17, of 28.03.2018; 11. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017, issue: 05/1-50-19-273/18, of 25.01.2018 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2018, issue: 05/1-50-13-26-39-12/17, since 21.12.2017; 12. Work report and the Financial Report of the Post Office for 2017, issue: 01,02-16-1-587/18, dated 26.02.2018; 13. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission on amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-683/18, since 07.03.2018; 14. Reports on the work of the Committee of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2017: (a) Report on the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2017, issue: 02/1-50-6-259/18, of 24.01.2018, (b) Report on the work of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of People of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2017, issue: 02/2-50-6-259/18, of 25.01.2018, v) Report on the work of the Commission for Finance and Budget of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2017, issue: 02/3-50-6-259/18, of 26.01.2018; 15. Reports on the work of the Joint Commission on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2017: 3a) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH, issue 03/1-50-19-2975/17, of 15.01.2018, b) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, issue 03/4-50-14/18, of 24.01.2018, g) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs, issue: 03/5-50-11-253/18, of 15.02.2018, ð) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, issue: 03/6-50-14-253/18, of 20.03.2018; Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, material number: 05/7-50-19-555/18, since 21.02.2018; 17. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-565/18, of 22.02.2018; 18. Report on the work of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Conditions of Stay in Institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for crimes provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, act No: 05/6-50-19-608/18, of 26.02.2018; 19. Annual report on the application of the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2017 – submitr: Joint Committee on Human Rights, issue: 01,02-50-19-788/18, since 20.03.2018; 20. Proposal for a state strategy for drug surveillance, prevention and control of drug abuse in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2018 – 2023 – applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01,02-04-649/18, since 02.03.2018; 21. Proposal for a decision to approve the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency Decision on the appointment of professional military personnel to the formational posts of generals at the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-34-1- 564/18, since 21.02.2018; 22. Commission Report to the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on ratification of the Agreement on Grants between the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Norway to improve women's security and to respond to gender-based discrimination and violence in BiH (BHZ-16-0004), issue 01,02-05-2-557/18, since 21.02.2018; 23. Giving consent to ratification Amendments and Supplements (2016) of the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention (MLC), No: 01,02-05-2-719/18, of 09.03.2018; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the 2014 Protocol with the International Labour Organisation Convention on Forced Labour of 1930, issue: 01,02-05-2-720/18, of 09.03.2018; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty of Understanding to increase loans and to accept an increase in obligations under the Guarantee Treaty (Banja Luka - Doboj - phase 1) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Treaty 2 on the amendment to the Loan Treaty, signed on 26 April 2012. (Banja Luka - Doboj - phase 1) between the JP highways of Republika Srpska Banja Luka and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-818/18, since 23.03.2018; 4 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Amendment to the Grant Agreement between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank on the Regional Housing Programme and other sub-project under the State Building Project in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01.02-05-2-783/18, since 20.03.2018; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Cross-border Cooperation Programme – Montenegro 2015 - 2017 for the 2016 period between the European Commission, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro, issue: 01,02-05-2-789/18, from 20.03.2018; 28. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 3 to the Financing Treaty concluded between the European Investment Bank, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 15 July 2008 in Sarajevo and 18 August 2008 in Luxembourg and the subsequent amendment to the Treaty / Waterway and sewerage in the Federation of BiH - Fi 24.569 (the Finance Treaty) signed on 21 August 2017 in Luxembourg, 8 September 2017 and 12 September 2017 in Sarajevo, issue: 01.02-05-2-925/18, since 10.04.2018; 29.04.2018 Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty of Finance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the JP Highways of Republika Srpska – The Highway of Banja Luka - Doboj, issue: 01.02-05-2-1041/18, since 24.04.2018; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the European Union accession process, No 01,02-05-2-1068/18, of 26.04.2018; 31. Giving consent to ratification of the Special Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is represented by the Directorate for European Integration of BiH, and Sweden, represented by the Swedish International Development Co-operation Agency, on support of the European Integration Directorate, No. 01.02-05-2-1102/18, of 03.05.2018. This was a harmonised draft agenda for the College of the People's House which you received with your calls. In the meantime, following the consultations, the College of the House of Peoples, and in the light of the changes to the agenda that we propose to you to make, it found that point 9. of the Law amending the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-125/18, of 26 March 2018 should be excluded from the agenda of this session and left for work on one of the next sessions of the National Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This is practically the only proposed amendment to the proposed agenda for now. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4174	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored present. I suggest that point 9, especially if we take this existing one off the agenda, there will be a point – Opening procedures for making the official consolidated text of the State Service Act. Namely, the Law on State Service at the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina was passed in 2002, and besides the basic text, there were eleven amendments and additions so far. The 5 MPs' initiative at the House of Representatives adopted a proposal at the House of Representatives to authorise the Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives to initiate the procedure. It is known that according to our rules of procedure, the official consolidated text is produced only when the homes authorise constitutional committees to approach the text and I therefore propose that point 9 be - the initiation of procedures for the production of the official consolidated text of the Law on State Service in BiH institutions. I also have a proposal for a point and an explanation here, so we have the necessary conditions to include the point in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4175	Thank you too, Mr. Genjac. Any further applications for participation in the agenda debate? There are no further applications. I ask Mr. Genjac to submit his proposal to the Professional Service so that we can use it further during the session, especially now that we need to make a statement about the proposal. All right, thanks. If there are no other applications, I'll conclude the debate on the agenda, and now we'll move on to a plea. First we will vote on a proposal from the College of the House of Peoples to point 9. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-205/18, from 26.03.2018 takes off this agenda. I'm asking you to initiate a plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 13 were for, against no one, he was abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against, no one, admirable 1. From Republika Srpska – 4 for, against no one, abstained no one. There's a general and entity majority, so I find this proposal adopted. We are now moving on to a statement on the proposal of distinguished counterpart Halid Genjac to include, instead of this 9th point, a new point of 9 which reads – Opening the procedure for making the official consolidated text of the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please initiate the vote. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 12 were for, against no one, two delegates were abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against no one, abstention 2. From Republika Srpska – 4 for, against no one, abstained no one. There's a general and entity majority, so I'm guessing Mr. Genjac's proposal has been passed. Now, I would like to make a statement on the overall agenda proposed for the continuation of today's session. Let's get this procedure started. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present, 15 were for, against, and withheld. 10 from the Federation of BiH for, from Republika Srpska 5 for. 6 There is a general and ethnic majority, and I realize that the agenda has been adopted. I'm asking the service to provide us with the working conditions of point 9. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Now we're going to work on today's agenda, first of all we're doing point one, of course, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 37th and 38th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. Thank you, I'm closing. We're moving on to a plea. So, two minutes. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present, 14 were for, against no one, he was abstentioned 1 delegate. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against no one, abstention 1. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, against no one, abstained no one. There's a general and ethnic majority, so I'm guessing we've adopted the minutes for the 37th and 38th sessions. Just a minute. Thank you. We're going to work at number two, Ad. 2. Request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, No. 02-02-1-629/18, of 12.03.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4181	I thank the chairman. Article 124. In its first position, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations states that the Proposer may propose, or ask the House to consider the proposal of a high degree of urgency or which is formulated in such a simple way, that it can be adopted or rejected as a whole, in a single reading, therefore, by an urgent procedure. The condition set out in the first part of this formulation, therefore there is a high degree of urgency, is known to us, because in June of last year the Constitutional Court adopted its Decision that has challenged the very important provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the announcement that it could delete them if the Parliamentary Assembly does not adopt within six months the amendments that are, which will ensure the consistency of these members with the BiH Constitution. As is known, and the procedure and chronology of events is well known, the Parliamentary Assembly has not adopted the necessary amendments and additions in both homes, and the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly at its last session has adopted amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina that meet the required conditions. Therefore, given the Constitutional Court's ruling before us, it is an obligation to implement the Constitutional Court's decision by resolving the disputed members, i.e. the provisions of the BiH Criminal Procedure Act, in a way that these solutions comply with European standards, to ensure jurisdiction, full jurisdiction of state judicial institutions and police agencies at the state level in the fight against the most serious forms of crime, organised crime, corruption, etc. and other most serious crimes. Moreover, the international dimension of this issue should not be ignored, since especially when it comes to transnational crime, transnational organised crime, Bosnia and Herzegovina has its obligations which it has accepted by signing appropriate conventions. In this regard, Mr Danijelson, who is the Director-General of the European Commission, warns that if the inactivity of the legislator would lead to a legal gap in the event that those provisions which the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional were deleted, whether that gap was created by the abolition of existing provisions by the Constitutional Court or the adoption of legislation that would not comply with international standards, then not only would the fight against corruption and organised crime be seriously threatened, but international co-operation, I stress, in this very important area be questioned, which could negatively affect the security of the European Union and its Member States. The law adopted by the House of Representatives, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of Criminal Law, the Law on the Criminal Procedure of BiH according to the assessments of all those relevant to this area meets those criteria, and that was the reason for urgency, because for this issue we simply don't have time to take over what the House of Representatives adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives, in all three languages lectured by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, and that I propose today that we consider it and adopt it in an urgent procedure. By adopting today this Law, which, as I said, adopted the House of Representatives, we would find ourselves in a very favourable situation when it comes to implementing the Constitutional Court Decision and meeting the conditions set and requested before us, and I see that this may be the only solution left to meet our obligation in good time and to make that question between a hundred and two hundred cases which, which the prosecution is dealing with, and which would result in a legal void being questioned with great damages to the judicial system, for the integrity of the judicial system, and bearing in mind this legal dimension. So, I suggest we consider this law today and adopt it as an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4182	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Mario Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's a maltene exact argument like all of this that Halid Genjac has made with the bill, and also, on the same subject which is the next item of the agenda, and I don't think there's a need if it's not done by now that we're going after some urgency, and there's no big difference between those two laws and my proposal would be that, with the proposal of a respected fellow Genjac, we go into a shortened procedure, so that we can amendments to the same text of the Law, it means that we do something that suits all of us, and not to be here... Here's my proposal, so let's go into a short procedure with this bill of law to try to make one out of these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4184	Thank you. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4185	Thank you, Mr. President, here's a warm welcome to all present. This is one of the most important issues, all issues are important, but surely it is of the most important issues standing before us as legislators, which is the responsibility and obligation towards the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to do everything that Bosnia and Herzegovina has the integrity and independence of the judicial system as one of the three branches and the levers of the overall constitutional order. The fact that we have here about the most important such laws of haste I should not repeat because it is not the first time, unfortunately, but in continuity and it shows all of our disorganization, irresponsibility and dysfunction in terms, therefore, that we can afford such a luxury that we have so many, dozens of decisions of the Constitutional Court that have not been implemented and implemented and have not been translated into legal solutions. But there's one more thing here, the proposal that went before this came with the support of the Justice Department, as I understand it, and if I understand it correctly, it wasn't put on the Council of Ministers, I don't know the reasons, I don't want to get into it. I don't want things to run here so that we amnesty institutions that need to be the main promoters of key strategic legal solutions and then put us before the final act and that's not the first time. This, of course, does not mean that we should run away from responsibility and we certainly must, therefore, take our part of responsibility in a way that there is no vacuum and that Bosnia and Herzegovina does not come into a situation to be immobilized, disabled, without 10 instruments and leverage to fight the highest... in today's world, which is international organised crime, terrorism, money laundering and a number of other things. So what do we do now? So we cannot escape this responsibility, but clearly I want to say, therefore, that the unsustainable situation is in continuity, that we do not have consistent proposals from the Council of Ministers and RES. And now we are in a position to have three or four legal variations at the same time about one of the most important things, and now we really need to be wise and responsible in a way, so that we do not gamble on our chance, if others have gambled with the time and way of organising and preparing this Law, so that the Constitutional Court tomorrow erases those provisions and that Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have instruments, it would be truly irresponsible to this country, its citizens, people and all institutions. I think that now we must really be at the height of the task of finding a solution that will pass in Parliament and which will ensure, therefore, that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not an isolated island and without instruments, and this is the fact that it must be in the function of a broader, minimum regional and European perspective. And here we see, I agree with this message that we have received clearly from key people and the European Commission for Enlargement, that this is a central question of Bosnia and Herzegovina's credibility and its willingness to meet the standards in the judiciary, the independence of the judiciary and the equality of people before the law and to provide instruments for this struggle. Therefore, I think we need to find a solution that, conditionally speaking, will be able to pass both Parliament's homes at the end of this month and end this vacuum and give this country a chance. We can't be the ones who hit that nail in the coffin and leave this country without those instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4186	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4187	Dear Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues from the House of Peoples, ladies and gentlemen. I want to say a few words, and I think it's very important that we were brought into a situation where, here, at the end of the deadline, and we had since June last year for the first six months and then another deadline, to try to come up with a common solution. And I think that everyone here in the chain has failed, given that we all expected exactly what Mr. Raguž said, that we would have one institutional solution and that we would be able to come up with a quality law on the basis of a Constitutional Court decision that is precise and clear, and here I don't think any of us 15 is questioning the respect of that decision to come up with certain solutions. However, what happened to us today in the procedure of two laws amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure, namely one which was proposed by colleagues from the Croatian People's Club of Delegates, which is on the trail of what was done by the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice with the entity ministries, and we have a proposal for an emergency procedure proposed by counterpart Halid Genjac on behalf of the SDA Club and, as said fellow Genjac, who was adopted at the House of Representatives, but is somewhere stuck in the procedure so that he did not come from the House of Representatives? There could be a lot of discussion about this and arguments for and against, but I just want to say on the trail of this solution that I am in short-term procedure and that we can come up with something, and here's an explanation for what reasons. I've made a comparison of these two laws that are in place, which are in the procedure from attitude to attitude, from member to member, and I've come to the conclusion that the differences, they may be essential, but they're very small in the proposal of both of these laws. Here I'm just going to go through 11 so you can see in the argument why I think in some future period in the short procedure, and in the deadlines that we have, by the end of May, we can end this. When it comes to a member of the 84th Witness's right not to answer certain questions and I will not read, but I will just say attitude (1), (2), (3) are completely identical in both of these laws, attitude (4) is completely identical under a), b), c) identical, identically under d) and we now have the Law proposed by Mr Genjac, who adds the position under e) and other criminal acts for which different criminal acts can be fined for 5 years or more, and the difference is that in the proposal that we have the HDZ Club, we have a number of criminal acts exactly by calling on BiH members who clearly define which criminal acts are involved. So here in article 84, we have one definition that is not identical with these two laws. Let us go further, point (5), this, there is a certain difference in the statement, where it is said in the bill, that Mr Genjac's statement (2) will specifically state that he refers only to a criminal offence committed by a witness who is being threatened with the same weight or less than that found guilty of a criminal offence in respect of which he is being held or subject to proceedings, while in this second Bill, he stands - in the statement referred to in Article (2), this article will stress that he is referring only to the actions of a witness who commits a less criminal offence than prescribed for a criminal offence against which a statement or the case being conducted and that he cannot refer to crimes for which the sentence of at least 10 years is prescribed. We move on, it's all identical, identical, identical, identical, identical, identical, and that's where we end up, so this article 84, the difference is what I said. In Article 117, point (d) is changed and it is again a list of these crimes under the BiH Criminal Law by adding a point (e) that reads – and other crimes, that is, as I was just talking about. In Article 118, point (3) is replaced and read as follows, all in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, this is all identical. He's an identical member of 225, completely identical to two bill proposals, all the way to the end. I think in these small differences, they may be essential, but they demand that perhaps in this brief procedure we show little will and come to a law that is acceptable to all and here I can say on behalf of the Serbian People's Club that we will go and be on the trail of that solution and propose certain amendments to come up with a proposal that could be a joint proposal for the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4188	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished colleague Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4189	Thank you. I believe this is about the accidental lapus of fellow Rodić. So, the Proposer of the Law is not the HDZ Club, it's the Envoys' Club, just for the sake of the stenogram, so there are HDZ people, from the HDZ 1990s, from the HSS, and that's all. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4190	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. The word has an esteemed colleague... Excuse me, replica, dear colleague Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4191	I'm really sorry. It's absolutely not a deliberate mistake. I made a lapus, I apologize, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4192	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Sredoje Nović. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4193	Dear Chairman, Chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. Just a few indications about this today more than an important issue for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask the question every time – what are we doing here? What are we really doing here or are we not going to think about the rule of law at all? Don't mind me, but if we haven't received six months in this House or the Parliamentary Assembly, in Parliament at all, Bosnia and Herzegovina, a proposal from the Council of Ministers, I would really like to hear what the reason is. We to this day in this, at least I didn't hear in this House, what's the reason we didn't get that? Whether it's a disagreement, whether it's an inability to come to an act that would be acceptable, and even if you couldn't agree, you could vote. No, you've sent one law to a parliamentary procedure where you didn't all agree, and Parliament will determine whether it's like this or not. I must admit, obviously, that we have no responsibility, thank Bog, neither we bear nor anyone will bear it. Respecting all this my colleague Genjac has said and there is not much to be added or taken away, there is urgency, it is not controversial, but don't forget that the big names were in the task force that had the rules of law in the Council of Ministers. Do not underestimate just so many judges of the Federation Supreme Court, judges of the BiH Court, professors of the Faculty of Crime, Criminology and Security Studies, prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, representatives of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, prosecutor of the Republika Srpska Prosecutor's Office, professor of the Faculty of Law in Sarajevo and expert advisers and former prosecutors and judges in the United States. Does that mean they're incompetent? I don't mind when we talk here and we propose laws at all, and I don't want to even think about who was offered the Law today. I appreciate that names are probably respected by profession, but they always associate me with politics, not profession. The profession must be expressed through the competent, competent ministries, i.e. through the executive body, the executive body of this country. Therefore, it is something that I cannot simply believe and, as my colleague said, we have dozens of unimplemented decisions of the Constitutional Court and, of course, evil and wrong, if the Constitutional Court would now annul all this, all these provisions, become, would be one truly legal chaos. I think it is time that this Law, as we discussed last time about the law, and it will be at the next item of the agenda proposed by the Croatian People's Club, we return to a shortened procedure. And we're ready, the Serbian People's Club is ready to make concrete amendments that would reconcile both of them, conditionally reconcile, the law and come out with it by the end of this month and satisfy all of it. So I think it would be very bad for us to vote here and to create ourselves 13 bigger problems right now. But whether the time will come, I don't know, one day, and we will say – someone must bear responsibility, why in six months this Law has not seen the light of day here in the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4194	Thank you, Mr. Nović. Mr. Halid Genjac, this time as a delegate. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4195	I thank the chairman. In some ways, I also feel the obligation to, as a proponent of certain issues, perhaps, and to clarify and comment, so in which case, the profession prevailed, and in which policy or vice versa is a very question of debate. Is it possible that policy has just prevailed on the grounds that the Council of Ministers could not agree and accept as a proposal to deliver a law that meets European standards, which would meet the conventions that we have signed and that would ensure the effectiveness of the fight against the institutions of justice and police institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I think politics has just prevented it, not the profession, so that's my opinion. I think, too, that today we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to a law on which no mystery or a lot of doubt should be made. So it's a proposal that meets the requirements, implements the Constitutional Court's verdict, and it's a huge fundamental difference between these two laws, a huge, truly huge one. The difference is, in terms of whether we want to really fight organised crime and corruption, especially transnational organised crime, to fight effectively, to have effective instruments or not. It's a huge difference, a fundamental difference. Why? Because in these two laws there is a member who speaks of special investigative actions, special investigative actions and... in the law that I have proposed and the point that this applies to other crimes for which the sentence of the law of five or more severe penalties can be imposed. So, in the second law, there's a list of works, one list. It is never possible to list all the works, it is simply impossible and therefore it is not surprising that in the views that are in charge of caring in some way about the standards of the judiciary and which have been very much involved since the beginning of the reform of the judiciary and what it is necessary for the judiciary of Bosnia and Herzegovina to meet on the European path, and what awaits us in opening the chapter on the judiciary. So, it is no wonder that the OSCE representative, for example, stated that the Justice Ministry working group because of the non-compliance with the list of criminal acts for which I can... a warrant for the implementation of specific investigative measures with international standards prescribed by the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. So the task force failed to secure this. Furthermore, the European Commission states that the Ministry of Justice has made up, the Law which is the second law on the agenda today, has drawn up a draft amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure, but it is lacking and does not meet the requirements for an enhanced fight against corruption and organised crime, whether domestic or international. Declaration by the Ambassadors of France, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, the United States of America, Spain, the United Kingdom, therefore, for the purpose of the Law - the amendments should fully comply with the requirements of the Constitutional Court Decision, and preserve the integrity and independence of the security institutions of justice at the state level as part of their applicable legal powers. We note that the proposal currently under discussion in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly concerns the proposal that was in the House of Representatives, which I have taken over, meets these requirements. Partial solutions that do not comply with international standards and do not accept the amendments that will result in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the security agencies not being able to effectively fight organised crime and terrorism. A lack of timely response and failure to adopt adequate legitimacy would be a reckless act in view of the announcement to delete the provisions. So far, the Ministry of Justice has not proposed appropriate amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act that would comply with international standards. This issue must be addressed urgently, etc. So, looking for compromises between two laws that are different in this way and between which this difference is set is simply difficult. So, we can accept that the rest of the acts for which is..., serious crimes, or not to accept, so there's no between something, or, or. And that's the fundamental difference between these two laws, but that fundamental difference is not a matter of political relationship, that fundamental difference is a matter of relationship to the standards we've committed to, the issue of achieving the necessary efficiency, etc. So, I ask the delegates however, yes, given the terms and deadlines, and the state, and the needs, and the importance of this, we still accept the emergency procedure today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4196	Word..
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4197	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear delegates and delegates, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. So here we are discussing the procedure and the fact that the procedure is conditioned here by the expected Constitutional Court decision doesn't really justify us now arguing arguments between one side and the other, because I'm sure if that argument were put on the table to make that a much closer attitude than it looks at this moment. I think that if we are already discussing the procedure, we should ask ourselves why we are now where we are, and why is there an emergency procedure here that is highlighted and that we should open one key question, which is – is the BiH Constitutional Court together with us here making part of this political and legal system? Does he share with us the responsibility of what Mr. Genjac spoke of as possible dangers, about what Mr. Rodić spoke of as possible dangers and about everything Mr. Karamatić spoke of as possible dangers? If we are in a position to think about whether the Constitutional Court is going to abolish the provisions it has declared unconstitutional, which concern specific investigative actions and that this country is practically a black hole, it seems to me, not only in Europe, but perhaps in the world, which does not regulate this area, then I think we have a problem with both the Constitutional Court and that this is returning the story to some beginning, a very important start for this mandate, which was talking about the need to adopt a constitutional court law that would solve these situations and not allow us to find ourselves here where we are now. I do not believe, many foreigners have tried to convince me of that, but I do not believe that nine judges of the Constitutional Court can make a decision to abolish these provisions and take responsibility for the absence of these provisions. If so, then we do not have a problem with the impact of crime on the Parliamentary Assembly or Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Justice, but we have a problem with the impact of crime on the Constitutional Court, and I do not want to think that it is possible, although we have the fact that in this term everything related to the crisis came from the Constitutional Court. And the Day of the Republic that led to the referendum in the course of which we thought war would break out, and the Decisions on the selection of delegates in the House of Peoples, which is why we can't at all solve certain elemental matters at all now, fearing whether or not the government will be able to establish itself after these elections, and a shameful decision that makes it possible for three different languages to be three texts of the same law, regardless of who voted for 15 here, ask yourself what the weight of all this is and ultimately what we now have for the Code of Criminal Procedure. Now, since I don't believe that the Constitutional Court is like this, here, I don't believe it, I think it's about two vanitys, which force us into urgency when it comes to this subject. One chapter of the working group involving foreigners, another group of working groups formed at the justice ministry. They found their media in the Parliamentary Assembly and we are now here where we are. It is a perfectly correct and reasonable proposal from the Club of Serbian Delegates, which we have discussed a lot, to go into a shortened procedure, to allow the amendment phase and thus to solve this problem. Here, let's take an example from the last item of the agenda, the reason to vote on an emergency procedure under the Electoral Law was until the election was called. The moment you've called the election, since the next election can be conducted under such a law for two and a half years, because you have a negative opinion of the Council of Ministers behind which most of the majority of them are, you have some other negative opinions, you have positive opinions, etc., therefore, the meaning of an emergency procedure is lost. Here the question arises whether an emergency procedure should have ever been, or whether it was merely the result of a desire to create a presses that would produce a particular solution. I hope that no one is so irresponsible, I think that when you see that text that was made on behalf of the Serbian People's Club of Delegates, that you will find reasons and that you believe in this debate that concerns the very procedure and that in this way in a calm course of things, by not creating an atmosphere that is objectively not needed in society or in ourselves, we solve this problem. And in that sense, once again, on behalf of the Serbian People's Club, I express this attitude that is related to the shortened procedure. Thank you. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Darko Babalj. Here you go, Mr. Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4198	Dear Chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers, respected members of the Council of Ministers. Well, here, perhaps unusually, I would like to thank Mr. Halid Genjac first, thanking my colleague Ljilja Zovko, Bariša Čolak, Zdenka Džambas, Mario Karamatić and Martin Raguž, which we are looking for something called a solution at all. What's sad is that in the past six months to the day of today we don't have a single solution, so we can even get in the position, here we are today. If I wasn't mistaken, if this were so urgent, we'd have this session before, and as I recall this session was interrupted somewhere a month ago. It could have been scheduled, if this is as urgent as we're talking about, 20 days ago, but I don't want to get into those things. My disappointment is greater that in such serious matters we are always looking for some political excuses, and it is evident that we have a threat ahead of us, and this is what Mr. Tadić said and I don't want to go into it at all, the Constitutional Court, whether this is going to end, whether or not, investigative actions, investigations, we are in one situation today, we can only talk to the facts. Mr Rodić, Mr Nović and Mr Tadić said we have an exit solution as a club. As I understand it at the club, that we should have talked to the promoters as far as Halid Genjac is concerned and as far as these promoters are concerned, and from Mr. Genjac's discussions, I can see that he hasn't been spoken to. So I'm taking my opinion out of the club's position, so I got up, to explain it, and how I'm going to act and how I'm going to vote, here's what I'm going to say. Given those thanks that I said at the beginning of my presentation, I will support everything and one law, and by emergency procedure, and by a shortened procedure, and by an unnecessarily, and by a regular, and the reason why I will do so is because my voice is likely to contribute to something to solve this problem. Whoever made a majority, who made a policy, it seems to be in 16 of our parliaments changing from month to month, day to day, year to year, that's not my problem. So, I will vote for all and one procedure, and an emergency, and a shortened, and amendments, and regular, and for one law, and for another law, and for the third law, to somehow come up with those solutions, and the solution is, therefore, the adoption of the Criminal Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4199	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. There are no further applications for participation in the discussion. At the decision of the College of the House of Peoples, to enable what Mr. Babalj was talking about, which, and Mr. Rodić has just brought these amendments now, we are giving a half-hour break. [[PAUZA]] Your Honor, we have a quorum, but since there is a vote coming, I think it is correct to wait for colleagues Babalj and Softić. I ask the professional service to make an additional effort to ensure their presence, however, given that the break has expired. Thank you. You'll allow me to briefly consult within the College after we've given a break on our request, to see if we have anything new to inform you of. [[/consultations in the College.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4203	The Constitutional Commission supported, this one, agreed with the Constitution and the legal system, however, the same law was proposed in the House of Representatives and was there, at the House of Representatives, to end its failure. And I'm warning myself of that fact that we should take care of today, because by not adopting the law in one of the homes, his procedure stops.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4204	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I would remind you that this is about a situation where different proposings were in the House of Peoples and different proposings were in the House of Representatives. It may be the same text of the law, given that it was a working group that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, if I understand correctly, nominated. However, the question now arises whether you, since there is a possibility when the Proposer, are to identify yourself, this Law, to suggest we withdraw it from the procedure, or to stop working on it. Well, here, here you go, as a proposed word, if you want to, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4205	...the law in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4206	Staying in the process? 18
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4207	We're keeping the procedure, keeping it, continuing the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4208	Okay. This was Mr Genjac's presentation as a proposing. Now I'm opening a debate on this law. The honorable delegate, Mr Dragutin Rodić, appeared for the word. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4209	Dear colleagues. In short, I will repeat the discussion from the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, and that is what I said at the last session of the House of Peoples also here and pointed to what Mr. Genjac said. I really don't know what our intentions are when we act like this. So, we have, with all due respect, the colleagues who have proposed this Law, but we also know that the law in the same text has not passed, regardless of, of course, other proposings, these are MPs from the House of Representatives, not passed in the House of Representatives. What's going on now? So, we're going with the Law, the Constitutional Commission has established a constitutional basis in the first phase, a commission, has concluded, there has been no amendments, there has been nothing in the second commission phase, and we are now entering a completely uncertain procedure in which, it seems to me, that we are not intending to adopt this Law but to complicate the situation, I personally think that, and I will always repeat, that we should look for solutions that will be implemented and that will be successfully completed in both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So much, I've expressed my position on how I'm going to vote, but I'm speaking for procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4210	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. There are no further applications for participation in the discussion. There is nothing left for us but to conclude the debate and devote ourselves to the plea. Please initiate a plea. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present – 10 were for, 3 were against, two delegates were abstained. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against none, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska 1 for, versus 3, abstention 1. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority, so we're being consulted. [[/consultations in the College.]] The College will carry out the consultation on this issue later in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the People's House. Now we're going to work at point five, that's, uh, 19 Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Criminal Procedures of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposers: Delegates from the Club of the Croatian People Ljilja Zovko, Bariša Čolak, Zdenka Džambas, Mario Karamatić and Martin Raguž, Law No: 02-02-1-794/18, from 21.03.2018, consideration by a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 123. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4216	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4217	It's like the report. Thank you. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he is present. Do we have a bill promoter, Ministry of Security, Council of Ministers, anyone? Nothing. In accordance with the situation we have, I would say a chronic relationship with the Ministry of Security, which we are obviously going to have to discuss as members of the House of Peoples' College, I think this is the seventh or eighth time that some of the points of the Ministry of Security simply have to be removed from the session, but I still have an obligation to ask you and to make it clear that you want to have no suggestions to consider this topic. So, I'm running a procedure that we're going to be voting on, a vote that we're going to say whether or not we want to discuss this material without the promoter's presence. Let's get this procedure started. 21 Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 5 were for, 8 were against, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 3 for, against 7, the abstentions, from Republika Srpska 3 for, against 1, there are no abstentions. There's no general majority. I find that we will not continue to have a debate on this agenda and that we will postpone it for the next session. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-697/18, of 07.03.2018 This is the first reading of the bill, Article 103. Rules of Procedure. First there is a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have received the Opinion of the Legislative Sector and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has established that the proposal for a law is in line with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. The constitutional committee of the House of Peoples found that the bill was agreed with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina and supported the principles of the bill. At the 60th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, held on 18 April 2018, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of BiH did not receive the necessary entity majority. The subsequent harmonisation of the Kolegijum reached agreement on the proposed Law. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples if he wishes. HALID
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4219	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4220	It's like the report. I now give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he is present. Is there a promoter present? Boyan
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4221	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4222	Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4223	Assistant Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4224	If anyone can raise their hand, I apologize. And you're, I'm sorry, I haven't seen you since Mr... Do you want a word? 22 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You don't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. I'm closing the hearing. There are no reports. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of BiH in First Reading. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 12 were in favour, no one was against, 1 was abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against, no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska – 3 for, against none, abstention 1. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of BiH was adopted in the first reading. We're going to work at point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-377/18, of 23.03.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4227	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4228	It's like the report. Thank you. I give the word to the bill promoter if he wants to. When's the proposer?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4229	It's the same. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4230	You too. You don't want the word either? Is there no need? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the proposal for a law on work in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 were for, against no one, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, from Republika Srpska – 4 for. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the proposal for a law on work in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. Moving to work at point nine, I remind you that's a changed point, Ad. Nine. Opening procedure for the production of the official consolidated text of the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: delegate Halid Genjac
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4233	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4234	It's like the proposal. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on granting authority to the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to prepare, in co-operation with the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, the proposal for the official consolidated text of the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Set up a plea procedure. 24 Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 12 were in favour, no one was against, 1 was abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against, no one, abstentioned 1, from Republika Srpska – 4 for, against, no one, abstained. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we have given authority to the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to prepare, in co-operation with the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, the proposal for the official consolidated text of the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're going to work at 10th, Ad. Ten. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH, issue: 02-02-1-1830/17, of 28.03.2018 At the 36th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, held on 20.02.2018, it adopted the Law on Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH with four amendments. The House of Representatives, below the 53rd session, held on 14.12.2017, adopted the Law on Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH with three amendments. Since the Law was adopted in a different text compared to the House of People's House of Representatives, Mr Dark Babalj, Mr Halid Genjac and Mr Maria Karamatić appointed Mr. Darko Babalj in the Joint Commission for the Consensus of the Text. The joint commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of that Law reached agreement at a session held on 27.03.2018 on the identical text of the Law on Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH. The Joint Commission has adopted the text of the Law and is proposing to the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives to adopt this Report and adopt the single text of the Law supplementing the Criminal Law of BiH with amendments adopted by the Joint Commission. I give the word to Mr. Halid Genjac, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session, if it pleases. HALID
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4236	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4237	It's like the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this subject if anyone wants to. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the Joint Commission's report on both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH. Let's get this procedure started. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, 12 were in favour, no one against, no abstentions either. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, from Republika Srpska – 4 for. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the Joint Commission's report at both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH has been adopted. 25 Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017, issue: 05/1-50-19-273/18, of 25.01.2018 and Plan for the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2018, issue: 05/1-50-13-26-39-12/17, since 21.12.2017 At the 37th meeting of the House of People, held on 18 April 2018, we discussed the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2018. During the vote on that report, there was no need for an entity majority, so the House College agreed as a commission. You have received a report from the College of the House of the Peoples. Members of the House of People's College as a commission failed to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2018. In accordance with Article 75(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations... Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2018. I note that this agenda item is no longer under discussion. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017. Thank you. Out of the 12 delegates present, seven delegates against three, held two delegates. From the Federation of BiH – 6 for, against, no one, abstentioned 2, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, 3 against, there are no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017 has been adopted. We are now voting on the Plan of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2018. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present – 8 were for, 3 were against, 1 was abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 7 for, against no one, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, 3 against, there are no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017 has been adopted into knowledge. Zdenka
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4239	26 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4240	Mrs. Džambas, I am still obliged to give an explanation now because this is an intervention that makes sense and requires clarification. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, every delegate in the House of People who is present during the session at the session itself, and this is demonstrated by the fact that the card is in the system, if he does not vote, his vote will be counted among the abstentions. So if you want us to repeat the vote, we can do it so that you can make your point more specific, if you don't want us to verify these results we have and we've solved this issue. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mrs. Džambas. But please, then, not the debate, but the only way we can do it again is if you want. Zdenka
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4241	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4242	You want to shut yourself out of the system? Zdenka
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4243	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4244	It has no consequences further, because the vote is already over. Zdenka
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4245	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4246	You want to shut yourself out of the system in the future? Zdenka
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4247	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4248	This point is over. So if you want us to repeat the vote, you take out the card and then vote again. Zdenka
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4249	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4250	I'm not saying it's important to us, it can only be important to you, because you intervened. So, I am obliged to provide you with all rights as a delegate. So if you want to draw a card, we repeat the vote and thus solve your dilemmas eventually if you have them in terms of results. Zdenka
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4251	27 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4252	Okay. I'd like technical services to draw a card from a distinguished colleague, Džambas. Boyan
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4253	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4254	It's already done. Thank you. Now, I'm asking you to initiate a procedure for pleading on this issue. Zdenka
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4255	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4256	No, just the last one, right? Zdenka
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4257	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4258	About both of us. Then let's... something. So, I find that the voted out by the independent committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017 is annulled for the observations highlighted by Mrs Džambas on her delegate's right to plead on this subject, and why they were not directly technical conditions provided in accordance with what she wanted to say. So we launch a re-vote on the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017. Run the plea. Thank you. Out of the 11 delegates present, seven delegates against 3, 1 delegate was detained. From the Federation of BiH – 6 for, against no one, abstention 1, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, 3 against, there are no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017 has been adopted. In line with the same arguments, we annul the vote also for the vote on the Work Plan, and repeat the vote on the Plan of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2018. Thank you. Of the 10 delegates present – 7 were for, 3 were against, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 6 for, no one, with abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, 3 against, there are no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017 has been adopted into knowledge. 28 Now we go to point 12 and work on it, Ad. 12. Work report and the Financial Report of the Post Office for 2017, issue: 01,02-16-1-587/18, dated 26.02.2018 You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication to the House of Peoples. The Commission has accepted the report and is proposing to the House its adoption. I give my word to Mr Sead Kadić, the first deputy chairman of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications, if he wishes. Sead
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4260	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4261	It's like the report. Thank you. Now, I'm calling on the promoter if he's present. You're here, you don't want anything? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the Labour Report and the Financial Report of the Post Office for 2017. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present - 9 were for, against the one was 1. From the Federation of BiH – 7 for, no one, abstentioned, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the Labour Report and the Financial Report of the Post Office for 2017 have been adopted. We're going to work on point 13, Ad. 13. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission on amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-683/18, since 07.03.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4266	Thank you very much. Well, here, this working body of ours has been working for a long time and we haven't been able to get a quorum for a very long time, and that's why the report is the way it is, and I'm sorry because one of those same sets of people put a lot of, a lot of work that ended up like this. So the fundamental error was made in the House of Representatives the moment they ran and delegated eight members of the Committee and they needed six, and all the problems came out of it. And I'm sorry that we failed to reach those conclusions, the amendments to the rules of procedure that made us the goal, but I hope in the next session that someone else will.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4267	Thank you, Mrs. Zovko. I'm opening a debate. The word comes from a respected delegate, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4268	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I want to say a few words since I was a member of this Interim Commission and I absolutely support what Mrs. Zovko said. At least there were good intentions with a number of members of this Commission that we might improve our work through this business matter. But I want to say something that's important to the future, not what we've been doing so far. I don't think every assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly should be doing this or doing a methodologically a little 30 different. We had more comprehensive amendments to the Rules of Procedure in 2010-2014 and this was the principle of work that proved to be much can be done because the most possible consensus was reached on the provisions concerning us directly. The proposal at the very beginning of this Commission's work was to start from the level achieved and to possibly amend those provisions that were significant, which were also shown in this period, in this term, as perhaps insufficiently implemented or perhaps insufficiently effective. And I think it's a fundamental mistake that we went as if the first time we adopted the Rules of Procedure and started from the beginning, from every provision to the provision to reanalyze what we analyzed a while ago. And I think that, here, in some official period, some other stimuli may, when they're doing this, read some stenograms and these reports, so just methodologically to see how it's possible to make a step in this matter, and this is what a barrel represents, so for those of us sitting here and we all care that we have the best possible procedure. For this reason, I think that the Rules of Procedures that function for many years, we know what all the problems were during some initial period, etc., I personally think that this text of the Rules of Procedure has been significantly improved in the preceding period, and for some future period to focus on those provisions of the Rules of Procedure which have proved ineffective and try to achieve, because I think there are certain substances and certain legal and sublegal acts that must be adopted with the largest possible majority because we apply them and refer to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-15-0.u4269	I thank Mr Rodić, and I must say that at this moment we do not have a quorum for further work on this session. I've been informed that it's temporary, and I think that, here, we've solved that question. I find that we have re-achieved the quorum and I find that there are no further applications for participation on this agenda point in the debate. Accordingly, we move to a statement and vote on the report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission on the draft amendments and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the proposal of the Interim Joint Commission on the termination of its work. Let's get this procedure started. I apologize to my colleagues for that. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present, 11 were for, against, and withheld. From Federation of BiH 7 for, from Republika Srpska 4 for. There is a general and entity majority, and I find that the report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission on the draft amendments and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been adopted and the proposal of the Interim Joint Commission on the termination of its work has been adopted. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14. Reports on the work of the Committee of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2017: (a) Report on the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2017, issue: 02/1-50-6-259/18, of 24/01/2018, 31 b) Report on the work of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2017, issue: 02/2-50-6-259/18, of 25.01.2018, v) Report on the work of the Commission for Finance and Budget of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2017, issue: 02/3-50-6-259/18, of 26.01.2018. You have received a report on the work of the Constitutional Commission and the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications and the Commission for Finance and Budget of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2017. The Commission adopted reports and proposed their adoption to the House. I give my word to the chairman's commission, if they want. Mr. Kadić, as First Deputy, you don't want to. Mr. Genjac, he's not here. First Deputy Mr. Čolak doesn't want to. And in the name of the finance Mrs. Zovko. You don't want to. Okay. Then I'm opening a debate. There are no applicants for participation in the debate. I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote on reports on the work of the permanent committees of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2017. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present, 11 were for, against, and withheld. From Federation of BiH 7 for, Republika Srpska 4 for. There is a general and entity majority, and I find that reports on the work of the Constitutional Commission, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications and the Commission for Finance and the budget of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2017 have been adopted. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Reports on the work of the Joint Commission on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2017: (a) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH, issue: 03/1-50-19-2975/17, of 15.01.2018, (b) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, issue: 03/3-50-14-16-218, of 16/01.2018, v) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on European Integration, issue: 03/4-50-14-253/18, of 24.01.2018, g) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs, issue 03/5-14-11-11-153/18, of 15.02.2018, d) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, issue 03/6-50-14-14-253/18, dated 20.03.2018.2018.
