ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25011	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 61st session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. Representatives of institutions whose reports are on the agenda of today's session are also invited to attend the session. BiH Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak delivered a notice that due to his official trip, he will not be able to attend the House session. The absence from the session was justified by MPs: Monika Tomić, Nermina Kapetanović and Senad Šepić. According to the Office, 32 MPs attend the session. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are in line with the order of arrival, and the messengers will present them in this order. We can begin by asking MPs questions and ask Ambassador Maja Gasal-Vražalica to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25012	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. So there is unofficial information that about 130 babies were born in a camp in Syria, one or both parents of Bosnia and Herzegovina. From the legal provisions of the Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina, the question arises – Are children, who are not registered anywhere, therefore have no birth certificate because they were born in the camp in Syria, citizens and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? From 2012 to today, 58 women of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens have gone to Syria, some of them after the death of their husband, who was on the foreign battlefield a foreign fighter, located in Mubahu a house for widows and children. In line with the above, I ask the BiH Ministry of Security and the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs – are these children born in Syria, in a camp in Syria, citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether there is a strategy and/or the activities of competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the return process of women and children, citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who are at camp in Syria and what is the status of these women and children in the camp in Syria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25013	Thank you. Does anyone have an answer? Deputy Minister, Ćosić. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25014	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, members of the Council of Ministers and the chairman. The provision of Article 6 of the Statute (1) point d) of the Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina was prescribed, among other things, – a child born after the entry into force of the Constitution shall be granted the nationality of Bosnia and Herzegovina with origin d) if born abroad, whose parent was a Bosnia and Herzegovina citizen at the time of birth, provided that by the time he was 23 years old, he submits an application for the registration of Bosnia and Herzegovina's nationality to the competent authority. The cited provision of the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina also applies to children born at a camp in Syria and may be considered citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina if they submit the necessary application to the competent authority to register Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship. The application should also be submitted by a parent who is a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The application can also be submitted via Bosnia and Herzegovina's competent diplomatic and consular representation abroad. The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs is responsible for the affairs of citizenship, which in particular do not seem particularly controversial, however, we point to the fact that the area of entry into the birth and home books of Bosnia and Herzegovina citizens in the Federation of BiH is in the jurisdiction of the Federal Ministry of BiH, and in Republika Srpska in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Administration and local self-government, and in the Brcko District of BiH in the jurisdiction of the Public Register of the Government of the Brcko District of BiH. When applying for the registration of Bosnia and Herzegovina citizenship, it will be doubtful first to prove the nationality and identity of the applicant for a parent who is a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is assumed that their personal and biometric data exist in the Central Register, which should also allow for identity checks. A much bigger problem will be obtaining the necessary documents for enrolling children in their books. The real assumption is that birth certificates, and no other documents, have at all, and that they have any documents issued by the Syrian authorities in accordance with the Hague Convention on the Recognition of Public documents, should be fully legalised by the trust of Apostille with the seal. In order to verify the relevant facts for civil status, it is likely that the findings of DNA laboratories, which are reportedly working on the ground and within the framework of IOM, may be used as supporting evidence, and identification documents issued by IOM and UNHCR could also be used. By establishing the nationality of status, civil status would create conditions for issuing the passports needed to return to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Later in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the final entry into the parent books could probably be made only on the basis of relevant facts that would be established by the competent court in the out-of-party procedure. The BiH foreign ministry is responsible for protecting the rights and interests of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina at a permanent or temporary stay abroad, in accordance with the Law on Monasteries and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration. The process is under way to establish a co-ordination body of the BiH Council of Ministers to address the issue of the return of terrorist fighters and members of their families, women and children from the battlefield. The process is run by the BiH Foreign Ministry. BiH Civilian Ministry to take over its representatives as part of its responsibilities will actively participate in the work of the co-ordination body of the BiH Council of Ministers to be formed soon. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25015	Thank you. You have the right to comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25016	So, since you spent most of your time explaining to me what it requires, what are the legal provisions of the Law on Citizenship, which I am well aware of, however, it is a specific situation. So, all you've listed are in ideal cases when someone, when someone is available to communicate with the competent institutions. This is about Syria where women and children who are located, so who became widows and who are camped in Syria are totally isolated and absolutely have no communication, or the competent institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, did nothing to make contact with their citizens, and here you have confirmed in your statement that they are citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So children born on Syrian territory are based on the mother or father of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens. What is specific and does not give me the hope that you will do anything as a Council of Ministers is to form a coordination body, so this is an emergency situation, and while you form, of course, that body, and the pre-election campaign is under way, it means that mothers and children, therefore, citizens and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina will not get any protection from their own state, because as long as a body is formed, which is normally formed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that nothing can be solved. Please deliver it to me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25017	Thank you. Ambassador Mirsad Đonlagić, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25018	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I welcome you and the College of the House of Representatives, as well as all the docks in this room. My question is very simple, I recently read in the media that Bosnia and Herzegovina imports 75% of food. So, I'm not going to say that it's an amazing piece of information, or that it's something simply unimaginable because there's a lot going on in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it could be attributed to such attributes, but here I'm wondering if, first of all, it's true, and if it's true, if anyone has any intention of doing anything about it in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In that sense, I asked Mr. Šarović, whom I sent this letter, to answer me, but if he didn't tell me who I could refer this question to. Thank you. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25019	Thank you. Minister Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25020	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen. The question, of course, can be referred to me and I will give you the answer in writing, but in these two minutes what you may be most interested in... In the first part, to say that it is not true that 75% of its needs for agricultural and food products Bosnia and Herzegovina satisfy from imports, but it is true that this, I would say, is an export-importing, or trade balance that says that Bosnia and Herzegovina imports food, or agricultural products, and all that is food, close to three billion KM, and exports one billion. So Bosnia and Herzegovina twice as much imports of agricultural products and food as it exports, but 4 is a trade balance. What is especially necessary to know that almost 90% of domestic production is spent in Bosnia and Herzegovina and this should be taken into account when making one total, I would say, a balance of consumption in Bosnia and Herzegovina food and agricultural products. Why? Because almost 3/4 of our farms are small farms that produce for themselves and only one small part, only one small part gives for the production market. Bosnia and Herzegovina has opted for a liberal, free market, not closed, so it's regulated and it's possible that different paradoxes are possible for example. We meet only 40% of our needs for cereals, namely wheat, but that the rest is imported, but that we are export-oriented and we export more than 120,000 tonnes outside Bosnia and Herzegovina flour and flour products. Or, for example, perhaps the most drastic example with milk, Bosnia and Herzegovina produces 700 million gallons of milk in approximately two entities half-and-a-half. Only 220 million are bought out and the 220 million are processed, so not one third is bought, sold or used in domestic production. Of these 220 million Bosnia and Herzegovina 70 million exports, and imports only 65 million, so we export more milk than we import. I think, here's the thing, since it's only a matter of two minutes, this is a very complex question, and I'm going to try to provide you with other information in writing, I hope you'll be pleased.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25021	Thank you. Mr. Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25022	First of all, I want to thank you always for the answer and very quality answers to the gentleman, Minister Šarović as one of the few who gives complete answers and answers in this way as he just did. However, I have to say that it is, I understand the processes of the liberal market, it's okay, but the balance, I think the most important thing at the state level is the balance and the money that needs to be in plus, and not in minus, I think that's the essence and that no one as a state can challenge anything. I am in favour of the open market, I am in favour of a free competition, but we must, by measure and investment in certain segments of food production, enable us to provide more food for the Bosnia and Herzegovina market and ultimately import much more, export much more than we import. And I'm sorry that, in this way, it's presented to the public, that in the end, at one, some superficial assessment we import 75% of the food, but here, I'm glad that I've heard such a quality explanation. I thank Mr. Šarović once again, and I will be pleased if I get it, as you promised, in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25023	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25024	My question was also addressed to the foreign trade and economic relations minister, referring to the production of weapons and ammunition recently spoken in public by Bosniak member 5 of the presidency, as well as to inspection of the production of NGO funds by the competent ministry. I remind my colleagues that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is conducting two types of supervision, inspection supervision of the application of the Law on the Production of NGOs and the inspection supervision of legal persons authorised to handle the production and refurbishment of NGOs. My question to the competent minister is – Why does the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations not inform competent authorities, entities, about the state of production and remonting of NGOs, especially the product of them for God's Bog? Because export production we have information through reports, but production for God's Bog never had any information about it, nor do we know what it's about or how much it's about. Secondly, which legal entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina all have permission to deal with the production of NGOs and what kind of assets and quantities of products are produced? So, I need written information on this, and I also need to provide written information with an inspector's report, where there are legal persons and when an inspection is carried out over the application of the law in the period 2015 to 2018 and what are the results of these findings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25025	Thank you. Minister Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25026	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs. Dear MPs at the very beginning to say that the production and remont of weapons and military equipment was regulated by the Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment, which this Parliament adopted in 2009. Article 5 of the same Zaklo provides that production and remonting of NGOs is based solely on export-export contracts and contracts with relevant institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the needs of the Armed Forces. Only in exceptional cases can the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations give permission to manufacture and these exceptional cases...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25027	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25028	louder, and these cases are, are now okay, you hear well, excellent, and these cases are fully regulated by law, it's about, it's about making samples or test production and the Ministry, within the Ministry there is, as you know, an inspectorate in accordance with a law that performs special, meaning, supervision of companies dealing with the production and repair of arms and military equipment. But I would like to emphasise this because of your question, which you have raised, in order to carry out constant ongoing monitoring and reporting in production, the relevant entity ministries are in charge. Overall, there are 35 companies in Bosnia and Herzegovina's production and remont licenses, 22 of them in Republika Srpska and 13 in the Federation of BiH. In accordance with the law, inspections are carried out at least twice a year in these 35 companies. The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations can always carry out extraordinary inspection by the State Inspectorate. That extraordinary surveillance on any subject, on any basis, has never been sought before. The inspectorate’s reports for each inspection surveillance shall be made available as documents of the Ministry, or 6 inspectorates. There are no facts in the previous 2017 and first quarter of 2018 reports that would indicate that production takes place beyond the legal rules, but again I note, for any entity, for any factory or company extraordinary supervision can be carried out at all times and at any time the Ministry is prepared, including your other questions, to answer you in writing and for the years you have stated.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25029	Thank you. She's a messenger, Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25030	So I didn't get answers to these questions. The Inspectorate of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations as the responsibility of the Inspectorate shall inform the competent authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entities of the situation in the area of production and refurbishment of arms and military equipment, that is, the jurisdiction and obligation of the Inspectorate. Why doesn't the inspectorate deliver, I assume he has such an instruction from the minister, so his responsibility is to meet the entities and others with the findings he has. So, I asked you in this question of my own, I asked you very specific questions about how much this production is, especially this production, for God's Bog, don't talk about exports, we have some control for export, although it's problematic with... it. But which all deals with and how much funds are produced and, in the end, especially in which persons have been supervised and coffees are located for the period from 2015 to 2018, please provide me with information in writing... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25031	Thank you. Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25032	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests. On January 29th, I asked the issue of the national structure of staff at the Council of Ministers' General Secretariat. I didn't think this issue should go public, but just for the sake of the analysis of the situation in this institution, I wanted to have data. It is obvious that the General Secretariat ignores my question and I am taking the opportunity to ask a question publicly and I want an answer, since it is obviously not settled there, it is not a settled state and that we have a national duplication and we have the construction of national reporting lines, which is not good for the Council of Ministers' General Secretariat. So here's the question, and this way, just to draw attention to finally getting an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25033	Thank you. Chairman Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25034	I welcome the esteemed leadership, the distinguished MPs and MPs, my colleagues, the media and all those present in the O.R. We will prepare, or that answer was prepared, we needed another consultation with the Personal Data Protection Agency and you will get that response in writing in the next week, by the end of this week or by the middle of next week.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25035	Thank you. Mr. Mehmedović, do you have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25036	Well, here, obviously I'm going to get a written and written answer finally, and then I'm going to refer to that answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25037	Thank you. Ambassador Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25038	I thank the chairman. My question has been addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the question seems to be quite up-to-date. So this year there's been three increases in oil prices and oil derivatives. On February 1st, we passed the Excise Act where there was supposed to be a collection of 17.6 fenings, but the collection was on average between 20 and 25 fenings, as MPs have responded here. The second roundup was 16 April of 5 fening and 3 May from 5 to 10 fannings. It's in the announcement, so it's the fourth pick-up from 5 to 10 fannings. So, in three months, oil and oil production in Bosnia and Herzegovina is 40 fening. It is known that prices are free in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the market is free of charge for both distributors and oil dealers and oil derivatives to form prices in line with market needs. Realising the situation that this price hike has a certain chain effect as well as an increase in service prices and an increase in living intentions, I ask the question – What is the Council of Ministers of BiH and the competent entity institutions, since they bear responsibility for this, what have they done and what, if they have not done, what do they think and plan to do on this segment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25039	Thank you. The chairman of the Council, here is Minister Šarović, will give an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25040	Thank you. As far as I know, there is another similar question from the honourable MEP Sokolović. Very briefly, as far as I know, there are no plans, or at least the Council of Ministers and I as Minister have not been informed of that. What are the consequences and this is the issue as well as plans in the jurisdiction of the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska that have asked for an increase in excise duties. In response, I can say that the Council of Ministers will request information from the competent authorities in Republika Srpska and the Federation and on this issue, meaning the consequences and plans, to inform you in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25041	Thank you. poslanik Isaković, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25042	Of course, I am not satisfied with the answer to this question for the simple reason that every government, every state, therefore, has its own measures to control free price formation, and one of the measures was, therefore, I was saying it to this Parliament, is also action from the stock reserves. However, this government is certain that there are no stock reserves to do so, but at the very least there are other measures such as economic and social measures for the population, and therefore these consequences that are indeed certain and will certainly come. And it's really clear to me that the Council of Ministers is not entirely competent, uh, for this... but entities, but the question is, if it's competent to increase excise duties, how is it not responsible and the consequences that follow after the increase in excise duties on oil and oil derivatives and the increase? So, I guess it's a two-way street where the Council of Ministers is in place and that surely before the Law on Excises and Increases, these increases, they had to have a programme, so the economic and social programme for the consequences that would come after this. In the end, I'd like to ask you to give me this in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25043	Thank you. Ambassador Mensura Beganović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25044	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. My question concerns the protection of the personal data of citizens and legal and natural persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it consists of, say, three parts, so I'll just keep it on those three. First of all, how many institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH and Brcko District that have not yet been registered in the Main Register, and have not been reported, have reported records of personal data collections that lead? Whether the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina has better co-operation in its work and activities with, and adequate support from the Council of Ministers, i.e. that is the information from the 2016 Report that this cooperation is very, say, insufficient for the Agency to carry out its activities in the right way. And under three – Are the conditions set out in the Decision of 05/07/11, which was ordered by the Agency to the Central Election Commission of BiH to remove shortcomings in respect of the respect of the Personal Data Protection Act? I will refer very briefly to the situation that is current in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially because this Data Protection Act suffered the latest changes in 2011, and the European Directive which must be implemented in one way and adopted in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2016, which takes effect for about seven, eight days, so on 25 May 2018. So, how much time does it take for us to bring our legislation into line with European documents and what the Personal Data Protection Agency prefers is a matter that really needed to be addressed because we are witnesses these days that, let's say, the Central Election Commission insists on the data taken by the parties from those who support participation in the general elections in October 2018, citizens must give their name and last name, the unique home number of citizens and the number of ID cards. We have witnessed that in many, many places the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina provide these very delicate data that they operate on in a way that is difficult to verify unless the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has the appropriate capacity. If the Agency is systematiced 45 jobs, positions, and employed 26 people, 25 perpetrators, at the expense of the number of those who can monitor the data processors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then it is clear that we have a rather delicate situation when it comes to protecting the personal data of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as the Central Election Commission is concerned, this Decision, which I have mentioned, concerns the publication of property records on the Central Election Commission website where the 2011 Decision has already been made, which has suffered all complaints, complaints, etc., and remains in force, why it is not implemented and today the data of all elected and appointed officials are publicly available on the website, and they can also be publicly available.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25045	Thank you. I have to ask, do any of the ministers have a saved answer? Minister Jusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25046	Honored chairman, deputy, MPs and MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers. Dear Representatives Beganović, the question you asked is in the direct jurisdiction of the Data Protection Agency, and we immediately contacted them after receiving your question and we received an answer from the director Kovačević that he was unable to prepare answers for this session, but that he would prepare for the next session. We have taken it upon ourselves to accompany the complete process until these answers are ready and delivered to you. So, we'll take over until it comes to your address.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25047	Thank you. Mrs. Beganović, it is...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25048	I thank and expect that I understand that this is a complex question so that I expect a complete and written and oral answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25049	Thank you. Ambassador Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25050	Thank you, Chairman. I am used to welcoming all present colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers and other guests present at the House of Representatives. I would like to point out, given the fact that the deputy defence minister, the deputy minister, is present, although I had the intention of asking the question to the defence minister. Mr. Jusić – Is the exact information that during March and April of this year, the educational activities of BiH Armed Forces and the BiH Ministry of Defence are in place to organise a joint military exercise of members of the Armed Forces of BiH and the National Guard of the American State of Maryland, whose maintenance was planned in May 2019 at the Manjač military range at Banja Luka? There are also questions – Does the exercise include the use of A10 aircraft and target targets on the country by combat ammunition, or is there agreement between the BiH Presidency and the Republika Srpska institutions on whose territory this military exercise is planned?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25051	Thank you. Deputy Minister, Jusić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25052	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Deputys, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen, MPs and MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, the media, please allow me to welcome you. Here's to giving at least part of the answer to the esteemed representative, Mr. Košarac. In fact, the Ministry of Defence has on several occasions made a public statement when it comes to this exercise and complete information exists in our statement since 20.02.2018, as well as since 29.03.2018. Namely, the exercise planned is only one in a series of events that take place in a long-standing co-operation between the BiH Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces with the United States, the National Guard of Maryland. Such events took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the region of about 250, i.e. through various types of training and training, about 5,720 members of the BiH Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence. And this exercise is in the exercise plan but, of course, it goes through all the prescribed procedures at the Ministry of Defense, both at the level of the Armed Forces and at the Ministry of Defense, and on the scenario and everything that needs to be done. And, of course, the final decision, both the preliminary scenario and the final one, is made by the BiH presidency. Therefore, proper procedures are being overlooked by these plans, but it is absolutely not about any exercise that differs from any of the previously held, especially in the exercise in which any ammunition can be used, and in particular none with the needy or any uranium, and similar to that of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And, of course, it will not happen, absolutely will not happen in 2019 without the final approval of the BiH presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25053	Thank you. An poslanik for the Košarac game. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25054	I'd definitely like to get an answer in writing in. I also wanted to ask you about this, and I asked you, but I did not get an adequate answer – Are 11 activities continued even though they oppose the institutions of Republika Srpska? There are official views of Republika Srpska institutions that the exercise is not being held in the area. Especially for the reason of the well-known public in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to NATO's role in the bombing of Republika Srpska and Serbia. And of course, I asked you about the role of the Presidency for one simple reason because it was the constitutional jurisdiction of the Presidency. Obviously, the Presidency, or a member of the Republika Srpska Presidency, did not respond adequately, as the institutions of the Republic asked to suspend all activities in this regard, and in part I heard from your response that some of the activities in this regard were continued. We are in possession of documentation where the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces of BiH gives orders to the BiH Armed Forces Operation Command and the Support Command, as we are in possession of a document where the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces of BiH asks the Ministry of Defence for a proposal to use a four-hour flight of the Armed Forces to prepare. So, as far as I could understand that the Ministry was aware that they were still preparing for the exercise, that the exercise was planned, although the institutions of Republika Srpska and the citizens of that area, the surrounding Banja Luka and Banja Luka themselves, were opposed to carrying out such an exercise and that, as far as I could understand, the BiH Presidency, and the Serb member of the presidency, did not react as requested. Please provide me with an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25055	Thank you. Ambassador Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25056	Thank you, Your Honor. I am taking the opportunity to welcome the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. Well, my question is on the same subject Mr. Isaković spoke about, and it concerns the negative consequences of the adoption of the Excise Act. I think that we should have one thematic session to solve this issue, because it is obvious that the government has a strategy, here, about what Mr. Šarović was talking about, has a strategy to take money from the people, but there is no strategy to protect that same people. That's the problem here today and that's the essence of my question in the sense that we already, here, and as the Independent Block, the Independent Block Club, have submitted certain initiatives in terms of, one, regulation of retail prices, carrying burdens and on distributors, etc. I am further speaking and explaining what Mr. Isaković was talking about, because we all know that the fuel, and the consequence, is the fact that the excise, in recent times, has accumulated, that a new collection is being prepared, and I think the Council of Ministers must do something about it. On the side of what the Council of Ministers has no jurisdiction, and it is in entity hands, but the Council of Ministers has jurisdiction over the law again. We've last increased tolls, the rest of them are excises on the same value. Here, we will reduce excise duties, tolls won't compromise the financial effects, etc., or what we're about, which was, after all, the adoption of the law. However, we have no response from the Council of Ministers. Here, let me remind you that 97 million is collected, not these funds are not distributed, there's no deal between the users in any way. 750 million is not activated under the Transport Community Treaty. No tender has been called, and what was called before had severe problems, so they have been annulled, etc. So we don't have any effects, we've taken 97 million from the people and we have stopped road construction, road construction, call it whatever you want, and we have dead capital and We have damage to the BiH state. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I ask the Council of Ministers – What is he going to do next because clearly this situation is unsustainable? 12 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25057	... the same answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25058	Unfortunately, the Council of Ministers has been acting that way all the time and I don't think it's good, and here, at the very least, the chairman, you could have called on this part I was talking about, and it concerns the Council of Ministers' obligation to amend the Excise Act. So, the objective of being superior, I repeat again, was that through the last legal solution, which it is, it's called an increase in excise duty, through the tolls of providing funds. ...if we cut it from the current 30, for example, to 15, 20, do some reduction, you'll have a positive impact on the standard of citizens. Now what's going on is very negative, 2.36 is fuel, I expect to choose three marks. Bog knows what will be further, because the world market now has another logic, and we entered that logic unpreparedly. You have to do something about protecting citizens' standards. The independent bloc, in the coming period, unless you suggest anything, will propose a legal solution in that part, re-change of excise duties, but I say, in this part where the actual excise part, without touching tolls, would be reduced and thus try to influence positive flows when it comes to this part of life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25059	Thank you. Ambassador Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25060	I thank the chairman. The question was addressed to the Human Rights Minister, Mrs. Semiha Borovac. Since the BiH Council of Ministers adopted the Work Programme for that year on 1 February 2017, so last year, the Work Programme for which the Framework Law on the Rights of Cake Victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina was envisaged, please respond – why has Minister Borovac not yet come up with a proposal for this law on the Council of Ministers and a reference to the parliamentary procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25061	Thank you. Deputy Minister Jović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25062	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputys, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, guests. I thank the honourable MP, Mr. Damir Arnaut, for asking the question and allow me to read you the answer. When it comes to making a law on the rights of torture victims, first of all, it should be known that it is a matter of broader public interest, i.e. the social community as a whole. With this in mind, it was necessary to take a number of preparatory and complex actions 13 and consultation in order to reach the text of the draft that we are planning to submit to the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration. All this preceded a series of activities: a working group whose work was not attended by a representative of Republika Srpska was established. In 2017, the task force drafted a draft law on the rights of victims of trinity in Bosnia and Herzegovina and representatives of the civil sector participated in the process. After making up the text of the Law, it was published on the Ministry's website on 20.11.2017, with a call for public consultations inviting all interested citizens and civil society in Bosnia and Herzegovina to participate. The consultations lasted until 04.12.2017. The draft law, as requested by the BiH Council of Ministers' Rules of Procedure, asked for an opinion from several institutions at the state and entity level. On this basis, the ministry received 10 positive opinions and one negative opinion by the government of Republika Srpska, namely the Ministry of Labour and the Boračko- invalidity Protection of Republika Srpska, and so far the opinion of the government of the Brcko District of BiH has not been delivered, and an emergency for giving an opinion has been sent. It is also waiting for the opinion of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury for a fiscal assessment made. Waiting for the opinions of the domestic institutions of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees in order to achieve as high as possible the opinion of international organisations and institutions, the European Union delegations, the OSCE and the UNHCR and the Council of Europe. Only after obtaining all the requested opinions and harmonising the text of the law with the same, the draft law on the rights of victims of the BiH torture will be referred to further procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25063	Thank you. poslanik Arnaut, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25064	I thank the chairman. First of all, I'd like to get this in writing. However, I am from your answer, the word I most often heard is – we wait, we wait, we wait. And in addition, this is Minister Borovac's Work Programme, which she prepared before February 1st last year, and the Council of Ministers adopted it on February 1st and only 20.11. to initiate procedures in terms of the draft. So, what was going on between February and November, what was Minister Borovac doing on the protection of torture victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina for nine months? That's actually my question. I fully understand what process follows when someone starts the process, but this process did not begin until 20.11.2017, although Minister Borovac put it into the 2017 Work Programme. Therefore, from what you have told me, it is obvious that you are too late, or that the Minister has started too late and that this will not be adopted in 2018, and this is in line with the work of the Council of Ministers, which for 2017 had 65 laws in its Work Programme, and has adopted seven or eight ultimately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25065	Thank you. Ambassador jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25066	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Bosnia and Herzegovina, as we see in recent days in media contributions, is increasingly facing an increase in the number of arrivals of migrants, refugees, from Middle Eastern countries affected by the war, and is becoming part of an attractive route for migrants to reach their final destination in one of the European countries. With regard to such a trend and the current migrant situation at today's session of this distinguished House, we will discuss the information on the implementation of the Emergency Action Plan and the implementation of the activities listed in the Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's evaluations and possibilities regarding the issue of the refugee crisis in the region and the European Union and the review of the situation in relation to the Western Balkan route crisis, which is also an operational action plan in the event of a mass inflow of migrants, refugees, in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As the last month has seen a rise in the number of migrants in the Unsko-San canton, particularly in the town of Bihać and Velika Kladusa, where migrants are only willing to settle in parks, on the streets, near public and religious facilities, city and municipal authorities face a more difficult humanitarian and security situation every day. Following a media report, I am aware that BiH Security Minister Dragan Mektić was on a working visit yesterday to the UN-San canton, which I hope is well aware of the weight of the existing humanitarian-security situation. I therefore ask the question – What measures and activities will be taken by the Council of Ministers of BiH for the control of the movement, regular accommodation of migrants and their stay in the UN-San canton, and whether or not the operational action plan will be activated? I would like to recall that the activation of the Action Plan requires the provision of more significant financial resources, as well as the adoption of the necessary decisions by the BiH Council of Ministers. It is therefore very important to know how much Bosnia and Herzegovina is ready to respond to the current situation, and to act urgently to maintain control and regulate hope for a lying migrant crisis. I ask the Chairman of the Council of Ministers to answer the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25067	Thank you. Chairman Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25068	Thank you very much. Of course, there is very little time to elaborate on such a complex issue, we can also talk about it during the agenda. As you said, in the past month, a tendency has been observed for the arrival of more migrants in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area. Before that, just between January and 31 March 2018, there were around 197 individual or group cases of attempts to cross the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina and high-risk countries, of which 937 people were returned, because of the actions of our officials, they were returned to the Serbia-Montenegro area. The largest number of migrants comes from Syria, about 30%, Pakistan 15, Libya 13, Afghanistan 9, Iran 6.4%, etc. and most of the crossings have been recorded at the border with Serbia, with Montenegro, and lately, of course, with Croatia. Three routes are current, one headed towards Bijeljina and towards which fewer migrants are heading, the second towards Visegrad and Zvornik and the third from Montenegro towards Trebinj. At this point, actually, the dominant route is heading towards Zvornik and Visegrad. From that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, migrants are heading towards Sarajevo, and from Sarajevo to the UN-San canton. So our Koordinacioni team has become operational headquarters with the Council of Ministers' final decisions. He is now in full office and in his membership lies representatives of the institutions of 15 Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as all other levels of government, because this is not only Bosnia and Herzegovina's duty, although the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina will co-ordinate and manage all activities. A draft emergency plan has been adopted to be completed after the operational staff meeting, possibly in line with the proposals we will receive from other levels of government. It will be activated immediately in that capacity that the Council of Ministers has in line with budgetary, organisational, personnel and material resources, which means that it will be transferred immediately, and has already been done, part of police officers from other police agencies, SIPA, etc., who will be assigned to the Border Police and will be at those crossings that are not official before Bosnia and Herzegovina's lies. And we will stop the flow of migrants in every part of Bosnia and Herzegovina territory that is not an official, institutional, border state crossing between Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The others will be stopped and returned, stopped through both institutional organs and physical ones. We are going in three directions, one is, of course, that we are still really preserving the level of humanity, given the past that Bosnia and Herzegovina had and the similar situation with our citizens, another important segment is the issue of security. All those who have entered the official crossings and at all everyone who is in the parks here and in the Unsko-San canton are registered. And finally, of course, we will go to respect our laws and standards of international conventions, which are members of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but at the same time, we will send immediate notes to Serbia-Montenegro that we are familiar with the situation that is happening in these countries, that their migrant centres are disbanded and that they are organised, institutional but unorganised by different criminal groups of large masses or groups of migrants are trying to transfer to Bosnia and Herzegovina, together with their institutions to stop these trends, and certainly with Croatia to see further co-operation, in terms of the movement of migrants towards the European Union, because their goal is actually Western Europe, not Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our ministers will tour these three countries, we haven't had a chance to talk to Minister Mektić I'm ending up fast, because he was in the Un-San canton yesterday. [[the speaker is warned on time]] As for migrants currently in public spaces, both in Sarajevo and in the Unsko-San canton, they will be located in the appropriate centres, so, when it comes to Sarajevo, probably in the Center in Salakovac, Delijaš and other centres, and as far as I can see in Bihać, it is solved through the use of space, the former space of Agrokomerca, and I see that they were moved from the center or from Parks in Velika Kladua. So, we're going to keep really a level of respect for the standards of international laws and humanity, but of course we're not going to allow any further illegal crossing of illegal migrants across illegal works of the border. And our plan is already in preparation... we sent it to the European Commission and to all international partners to help us in financial and material terms. For example, Serbia has received 76m euros over a year and a half, our plan at this point is worth about 20m euros and we already have talks and firm promises from both the European Commission and..., the UN institution that together with us will participate in the equipment of the necessary facilities and accommodation of migrants who have entered the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25069	Thank you. Commentary, Ambassador Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25070	I would like to thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for their response and information. As you have seen, I have focused my question on the UN-San canton because I am asked by the Mayor of the City of Bihać to point to an existing situation and a very alarming state with which 16 local authorities are no longer able to deal with, but, of course, I welcome all of your activities, as well as the Council of Ministers' activities to regulate the movement and residence of migrants, and I ask you to take all necessary and timely measures for the sake of the controlled, human and secure management of the migrant crisis in the UN-San canton where it grows more and more every day in this area. I believe that more intensive and systematic action must be made to ensure that all authorities and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina act in accordance with their competences in a timely manner to ensure and protect the rights of migrants, but also to prevent illegal migration so that certain parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not become an attractive transit area which can lead to major humanitarian and security problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25071	Thank you. This concludes the question of MPs, and now we're moving on to the agenda. As part of the previous issues, I would like to remind you that, as a committee in accordance with Rule 86(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the College of the House reached agreement on the following points on the agenda of the previous 60th session, which did not require an entity majority in the first round of voting, and these are: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-377/18, of 20.04.2018 (second reading). 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-697/18, from 20.04.2018 (first reading). 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the same text of the Law on Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-02-1-1830/17, from 20.04.2018. 4. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-565/18, since 20.04.2018. You have received reports from the Commission from the College. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to point out the following. The agenda has been downloaded: Point 3. Report by the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, issue: 01,02-06-1004/18, from 18.04.2018 and issue: 01-50-1-1021/18, since 24.04.2018, because the Joint Commission for European Integration has not held a session. Point 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-697/18, of 07.03.2018 (second reading), at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which requested an extension of the deadline for the submission of the Law Proposal Report. 17 Point 16. Annual report on the results of the Ombudsmen's Imbudsmen's Imbudsmen's Imbudsmen's activities for human rights 2017 – submitr: The Ombudsman's institution for human rights BiH, issue: 01,02-37-776/18, since 19.03.2018, because the Joint Commission for Human Rights did not hold a session. Point 18. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Export and Credit Agency of BiH for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-874/18, from 03.04.2018, at the request of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. The agenda has been downloaded: Point 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty of Finance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the JP Highways of Republika Srpska – Highway Banja Luka-Dobod B, issue: 01.02-50-2-1041/18, since 24.04.2018. Point 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the process of joining the European Union, issue: 01,02-05-2-1068/18, since 26.04.2018. Point 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Special Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which represents the Directorate for European Integrants of BiH, and Sweden, represented by the Swedish Agency for International Development Co-operation, on support of the Directorate for European Integration, No. 01.02-05-2-1102/18, since 03.05.2018, because the Komsija for Foreign Affairs has not held a session. It has been completed: point 8. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the urgent legislative procedure – Proposer: MP Nikola Lovrinović, Law No: 01-02-1-791/18, from 21.03.2018 (first reading), with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which is negative. The Commission has failed to establish compliance with the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. The following is added to the agenda: point 5. The request of MP Saša Magazinović to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the flag of BiH under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-1177/18, since 14.05.2018. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Ambassador Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25072	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, chairman, ministers, associates, distinguished guests. Two months ago, in fact, on 21/03/2018, I asked to include the agenda item, so, the agenda on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina over alarming statements and security minister's report, Mr. Dragan Mektić. In the first round, we had no agreement, a month ago we reached agreement that this point was on the agenda, and I'm surprised that the College decided only now to request information from the Council of Ministers to find this point at which second session of the Council of Ministers. At that time, I drew attention to the fact that we are witnessing that the Minister of Security is constantly warning the public that there is a danger to the security of citizens, which because of what he claims is a paramilitary and para-intelligence formation, and that 18 individuals and analysts who, in his view, undermine the security segment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this regard, I request information, i.e. a register of all unwanted organisations, associations and individuals whose actions can be caused by a breach of the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The information should provide an overview of the internal surplus of weapons and mine-explosive assets, as well as destinations where the Bosnia and Herzegovina weaponry ends, as well as a number of other data that can serve as a basis for a solid parliamentary debate. A special accent on the security situation should be devoted to an increasingly powerful migrant crisis that is coming to Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, two months ago, I'm asking that attention be paid to the migrant crisis, and we don't have specific data until today. Here are colleagues from the field speaking, analysts and... saying that there are already over 30,000 illegal migrants in Bosnia and Herzegovina and are hiding it. So, in order not to be safe and any other problem, any other problem would be logical and there would be no more urgent job than not to talk, therefore, about the signs in the media in which the minister, first of all, entered the pre-election campaign because the head of the Serbian Democratic Party's Election Staff, used misinformation and lies to cause enormous damage, first of all, to the Republika Srpska but also to Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I'm surprised there's no agenda today. The second request is for the removal of the agenda, it is – The request of the Council of Ministers to consider, by emergency procedure, the draft Act amending the Intelligence and Security Agency Act. There are two reasons, one reason why the Joint Commission for Oversight over the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency has not given its position, and therefore we do not have the Commission's position there, and that is its task. And another thing, because we have objections from the resolution ministry, so the Ministry of the Interior of Republika Srpska. It is impossible to build Bosnia and Herzegovina without agreement, without dialogue within Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially without the views of institutions that are required under the law and rules of procedure to deliver their views on the proposal for this law, it is particularly illogical that this law is being sent into emergency procedure because amendments They are not so simple since there is a possibility of abuse, especially listening technique to which he has [[the speaker is warned on time]] Intelligence and Security Sector. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25073	The Council of Ministers referred to the emergency procedure of this Act and you have now held a debate on the emergency procedure for why it should go to the ER or not to go to the ER. I didn't understand what the proposal was about this first finding on statements, the agenda item on the statements of Minister Mektić, because the College has, according to the procedure, according to the Council of Ministers, decided to obtain material for that agenda point. When it comes to us, the material will be placed as a part of the agenda. No need to comment, I'm just explaining the situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25074	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25075	Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25076	Thank you, Your Honor. 19 Ma, I would like to remind myself and my fellow Members here that, following the reception of the European Commission Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, we immediately responded and requested an extraordinary session. We met here not so long ago and realized that the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers were not present, that we have no one to ask questions, or we simply have no one to open the discussion with. We interrupted the session and said it will be at the next regular session. And here we have today the chairman here, we have members of the Council of Ministers, but apparently we don't have a report or the opinion of the Human Rights Commission. So we started to wrap or wrap, to make each other conditionally, what I'm not going to say right now, but obviously we're going round and round. So last time there wasn't a chairman, here it is now, now that the chairman is here, we have, we don't have a Commission report and we don't have a agenda point, it's down, and the question is, uh, the problem is very current. I will remind us that both Macedonia and Albania have received a pass, a green light because of their activity when it comes to the accession decision, and they have not long since been far behind Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're in the last place today. Why don't we discuss it today, and here I am asking all of us here for an answer, which is why if, if we have the report temporarily, if we have those present in this process, and these are the chairmans and members of the Council of Ministers, and we have a wish, and we have shown that ten days ago by order of an extraordinary session to discuss it, for what? Because of a few irresponsible members, I'm going to say, the Human Rights Commission is not discussing this agenda point today. We exactly need to get serious about this subject. Here there is, the report shows many negative things, poor rule of law, poor business environment, little investment in education, no change in electoral legislation, that is, every day we live here, this, the irresponsibility of political leaders against these problems, the violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, the non-functioning or poor functioning of the Presidency, the lack of a ruling coalition, the weak or no reform of public administration. Therefore, there are a lot of questions here that I think we should discuss today, whether we have or do not have this report from the Commission on Human Rights, and also in part, conditionally speaking, some violation of the Rules of Procedure, we are breaking it here for four years, so no one is paying attention to when we are here who want to talk to those responsible in this process, which is the Council of Ministers, and that once we open this dialogue so that we do not shoot through the media, but that we are here in Parliament dealing with these very important issues. I conclude, so I want this item of the agenda, this, I suggest that it be an integral part of today and that the MPs declare it, here if it's businessly possible, and I think it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25077	So in accordance with the procedure, the College referred the Commission for European Integration to consider this Report and this item of the agenda. As you have been informed, we have failed to obtain a report, nor has the Commission considered it, and that is why this point is not included. As soon as it comes, the Commission for European Integration will be on the agenda as soon as it finishes its work. Mirsad Đonlagić, a discussion, I apologize, Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25078	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, I welcome you all to the hall. 20 So, I volunteered to correct Mr Sokolović's incorrect claim, although you have already done so, it was not the Commission for Human Rights but the Joint Commission for European Integration. And another correction, if it weren't for a few but 12 were missing 8, so three MPs came from the HDZ and one from the SDP, all the others didn't come, and most of them were those who asked for this report, so there was no other obvious as they already told you from the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25079	Thank you. Ambassador Mirsad Đonlagić, Salko Sokolović, has again corrected the wrong allegations. I apologize to you, Mr. Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25080	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25081	You don't have to, here's hoping it'll be short.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25082	A good back athlete won't be a problem. Well, here's what I'm saying, uh, I appreciate what you're talking about, so here's Mr. Lovrinović when it comes to the procedural part, but here's what we came to the Excise Act by breaking both the Constitution and the law, and the business rules in this House and finally we get this collection that's going there now, traveling, a liter of fuel for us 3 brands. Which is why today we would not act in such a way or invite the Commission to finish the story in the day, so that this debate, not this item of the agenda, has not fallen sugar into the water, we can wait until the afternoon, it is a long day, but that the Commission meets and gives us a report. I think if we want to discuss this and we have a good intention we can find a solution, use the Council of Ministers' presence in full or in part. We won't have a last, next time, I guarantee you, and here everyone listens to me here, we'll have a report and we won't have a Council of Ministers and we'll circle around until the next report, and the obligations remain.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25083	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25084	So, Mr. Sokolović, just one explanation, I tried to call there this morning, that commission, I didn't provide the quorum, and I have to tell the public that yesterday Mr. Zvizdić was ready, so I'm going to come to the Committee's session, as far as I know, and we have colleagues from the European Commission at our disposal, but, well, there's this great one... she came in so that, therefore, 2/3, to say, she lacked the quorum to be, and she was sent in time and even 10 days ago, I think, a call for that session. As far as I'm concerned, therefore, a session can be held, I, as chairman of the Committee, have no objection, it is the Rules of Procedure, we have agreed, the College has been told that it will be tried, so next time, if not the Commission, or 21, the Commission has no quorum that it will still be put on point and we will discuss it, as it is said, now as far as I am concerned, it can be today.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25085	We don't have any more corrections to the wrong assumption. Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25086	Are you sure it's me?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25087	Well, here, I've been waiting to see if anyone's here.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25088	All right, all right, thanks. I'm simply looking at this question like this, does it make any sense that we're discussing this after two, possibly almost three months, because a lot of things have happened that have either made things worse or changed the relationship to these things that are listed in this report. So either it's consciously relativized, but it's certain that there won't be enough sense and thoughtfulness to discuss when all together manages to bring one place, including that commission, and then to discuss the Report of the Evorupan Commission. But what we have in general is a problem, we have a problem not working commission, seven points have been removed because of the unworked commission. Why doesn't anyone think about how they give me a certain way floor, I'll put it under quotes, force the MPs to work on commissions, how to do that. It is not clear to me, let's say, that here is the Commission for Foreign Affairs in which we have, and we have the President and two Vice-Presidents, who, one of whom is on sick leave, are one of the known reasons for political failure, but we have another deputy president who could organise a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission. I don't know, I don't know why it wasn't done, and those are the three points that I think are very important to my deep conviction. Not wanting to particularly point out the Foreign Affairs Commission and all these commissions spoken of by fellow Lovrinović and all that is mentioned here is extremely important. If that is the case until the end of our term, I think we must treat this House honestly, ourselves, and do our job properly by October 10th. I don't see any reason why it's a problem if it's May now, and we have October, work honestly and properly to do what people have chosen us for and for which we have received a warrant and a duty from all of our voters to deal fairly and correctly with all the questions raised at the House session. I really ask the College to do everything from its point of view, to use its authority in a way that is available to him and to organise committee sessions to carry out the work of this House uninterruptedly. I hope you've heard at least these two last sentences I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25089	We did, we did, we did, we did, we heard everything, we consult. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25090	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the College, Council of Ministers. 22 Well, I came forward for a quote from my colleague, Đonlagić, who spoke of the Commission's unhappiness absolutely right, of course, said that here's the commission not for some of it's unknowns, and also for some unknown reasons, held a session, so then one member of the commission, here, we don't know for what reasons, so now we're moving on that they're not coming. Well, then we accepted it as quite normal that some never come, and some who don't usually come when they come are guilty of not coming and there's no quorum because of them. It's not normal, it's a schizophrenic situation that we've brought ourselves into, so that's where we brought ourselves. I think that this, this problem, not only of those who never come, but of those who sometimes come, sometimes they don't come, deserves a special item of the agenda in Parliament. I know we can't do this today, there need analysis of all the commissions, reasons, etc., but I just wanted to say that the schizophrenic situation is that the decision to not come is justified, but the absence of a session is sometimes not justified.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25091	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Šemsudin Mehmedović, just to remind you that the topic is to determine the agenda. Here you go. SEMSUDIN
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25092	I respect the subject, and I will stick to the subject, but my correction of the wrong allegation is the correction of Mr. Đonlagić's misquote, who claimed that even today, some points have been removed from the agenda because of the lack of quorum at committee meetings. Here, as you read at the beginning, is the item of the agenda at the request of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs – Report of the Management Board of IGA. It was not removed because of the lack of quorum, because we had other points of the agenda and we held a session of the Commission, but because it was not from the Management Board of the IGA that no one attended the Commission's session so that they could answer the questions asked. For this reason, additional time has been requested for the Commission's position and only for the sake of timely and true, true information I have responded to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25093	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25094	Without regard for the fact that the agenda point implies defining it, it is still not bad to say a few words about this commission's work. The fact is that the main and very essence of Parliament's work is work in committees, it is a fact, and should also be kept in mind why SNSD MPs do not participate in the work of the commission. We are forced to do so, it is our political response to Parliament's violent behaviour when it comes to our member, chairing the Commission for Oversight over the work of the Intelligence Service. Worse yet, in this House no one mentions that such an important commission does not work at all, it is irrelevant. Parliament is not doing its key task, it is unimaginable in the modern world that Parliament does not exercise parliamentary control over the Intelligence Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25095	Mrs. Majkić, I really think that this discussion is out of order, you could have suggested a point of the agenda again to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25096	So the thing you just want to go over, and it's so important, it can only be for those who care about everything to stay the way it is. So, no need to look, you need to solve the problems of all who are related to the lack of people on board.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25097	Thank you. Sadik Ahmetović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25098	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable chairman and ministers. By listening to this discussion and looking at this initial draft agenda and all this that has been removed from today's session, I must conclude that this Parliament is in a much-like crisis and I am sure that for Bosnia and Herzegovina and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it would be best if he no longer sat down by October. I think it's a solution that would be useful for one or two reasons. It would be quiet Bosnia and more money would be in the budget if we gave these refugees living under tents, maybe it would be more useful than listening to ourselves, and basically here we split up and don't say or bring anything. The reason why the agenda points are removed because of the non-maintainment of commissions that are generally called just a day or half an hour before Parliament's session is a completely, completely stupid, uh, stupid explanation. We haven't had Parliament in a month, so we haven't had Parliament in 30 days, could at least try five times to make a quorum commission reach them. As far as I know, 90% or 99% of the MPs sitting here are professional MPs who have jobs here in the BiH Parliament. Or this is a tactics, therefore, that we are not talking about our nonsense in Bosnia and Herzegovina, about the failure of the Council of Ministers when it comes to the European Union's Progress Report. If it's tactical then we're not going to achieve anything, we're going to be in even more white and trouble, we're going to go back even further and we're not going to do anything. So I suggest that we make today's decision not to sit down until October because we will help this country and these citizens, because you certainly see that there is nothing left of this agenda. If we care, here, for you to be the chairman, for you to have cars and this, for all of you up here, and for me to have some wages, let's clear it up today so we don't embarrass ourselves anymore, or the country we represent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25099	I didn't hear you suggest anything about the agenda. jasmin Emrić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25100	I thank the chairman. Respecting the discussions of colleagues Sokolović and his colleagues, Đonlagić, and since we had already discussed the European Commission's 2018 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina at an extraordinary session, I suggest that the earlier point 3 be discussed. The European Commission's report on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018 returns to the agenda of this session for the reason why we did not extend further discussion on this issue because the Commission's opinion was missing, but because there were no representatives of the Council of Ministers. It doesn't make any sense now either, but when we started the debate not to be at today's session of the agenda, I ask that we make this clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25101	So, first of all, I have not received any written request on any change of agenda item 3 is the request of the Council of Ministers by emergency procedure and cannot be removed, so there are no conditions for any vote on the change of agenda and therefore I declare the agenda that you have received valid. ♪ not in no re ♪ 1. The adoption of the minutes with the 60th and 9th emergency sessions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01,02-02-1-1104/18, of 04.05.2018; 4. The request of MP Saša Magazinović to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number. 01-02-1-1206/18, since 16.05.2018; 5. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on whether to vote on the proposal of MP Amir Fazlić, who reads: "The House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH proposes to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, Proposer of MP Amir Fazlić (Law No: 01-02-1-668/18, of 05.03.2018) by means of an urgent legislative procedure", act No: 01-02-1-668/18, dated 20.04.2018; 6.04.2018. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-476/18, since 13/02/2018 (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Nikola Lovrinović, Law No: 01-02-1-791/18, from 21.03.2018, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH – Proposer: MP Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1-762/18, since 16/03/2018 (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-3010/17, from 21.03.2018 (first reading); 10. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on Parliament's proposal to include a new item in the agenda of the 60th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which reads: "Information on the lack of paper for ballots: a) Pandurević on the formation of the Research Commission, b) Lock on the establishment of a temporary Ad hoc panel for monitoring the implementation of the General Elections in 2018", issue: 01-50-1-15-60/18, since 20.04.2018; 25 11. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on Senad Šepić's proposal to include a new item in the agenda of the 60th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which reads: "Information on the current position, assessment of the readiness and ability of the Central Election Commission of BiH (CEC) to organise and conduct fair elections in October 2018", issue: 01-50-1 997/18, since 20.04.2018; 12. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarians Damir Arnaut and Saša Magazinović's proposal to include a new item in the agenda of the 60th session of the BiH Parliamentary House, which reads: "The debate on the work, activities and procedures of the CEC in the light of the upcoming general elections and the need to be organised in a fair and fair atmosphere", issue: 01-50-1-999/18, since 20.04.2018; 13. Request of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House on the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01/1-50-3-62/18, link number: 01-02-1-2573/17, since 17.04.2018; 14. Request of the Joint Commission to bring the text of the Law amending the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be amended by one member appointed from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission, No: 01,02-02-1-2015/17, of 17.04.2018; 15. Reports from the Central Bank of BiH for 2017: - Financial reports for the year which ended on 31 December 2017 and - Annual Report from the Central Bank of BiH for 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-861/18, since 02.04.2018; 16. Report on the work of the BiH Law Department for the period 01.01 – 31.12.2017, issue: 01.02-10-905/18, from 06.04.2018; 17. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electric Energy, 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-951/18, since 13/04.2018; 18. Information on the implementation of the emergency plan and the implementation of the activities listed in the Information on the evaluations and possibilities of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the issue of the refugee crisis in the region and the European Union and the review of the situation in connection with the Western Balkan route crisis, the material of the Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02,03-04-741/18, since 14/03/2018; 19. Information on the project PRO-Future and Peace Platforms – applicant: Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, issue: 01,02-37-1671/17, since 11.07.2017; 20. Report on the reasons for not taking the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security of BiH into full membership of the European Organisation for the Security of Quality in Higher Education (ENQA), with a concrete proposal for measures to eliminate observed weaknesses – the applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH (realization of Salko Sokolović's parliamentary initiative, adopted at the 55th session of the House of Representatives, held on 21.12.2017, 17.01. and 31.01.2018), act No: 01-50-1-2527-1/17, dated 30.03.2018; We move to point one, Add. 1. The adoption of the minutes from 60th and 9th emergency session Before the Parlame of the Croatian Parliament 26 I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm finalizing the point. Let's go to point two, Ad. 2. Comments to get do not answer parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25104	The drug market in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole is very important in the face of public health protection, but certainly also as an economic category due to the high incomes generated by trade in medicines. The reasons why I asked her how and what drugs have been allowed in the last four years to import into Bosnia and Herzegovina are often media writing that, in this area, major irregularities are present. That this is true also confirms the answer of the Director of the Medicines Agency, which gave my specific question that very often, i.e. in cases that are controversial and in which the Commission does not approve, the Director himself consults some experts on the import of these medicinal products. Let me explain, very telegraphically, this is about the next one. Therefore, the Director issues the approval by means of a decision taken by the Medicines Commission, and the Medicines Commission is made up, please remember, of competent persons from the pharmaceutical industry and the Commission serves as a first-degree, or body that helps the Director to make a decision. In cases where medicinal products are imported without the approval of those commissions, the director, interestingly, says the Commission was not in a position to decide and to express incompetence for work on the basis of imports of these medicinal products. And interestingly enough, this commission was formed by the director himself. The direct cause is actually one medicine that has been written about in the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina lately, called Klivaks, which has something to do with the treatment of lung tumors, or lung cancer. Interestingly, Bosnia and Herzegovina is next to Colombia and Paraguay, and the manufacturer is in Cuba, the only country that uses this medicine. Use it because the director has made a decision by consulting external experts bypassing the Commission and thereby misleading me above all, and probably the public on the correctness of their actions. I propose to the Council of Ministers that this very important, as I said about the health security of the population in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the subject remains, however, in the framework of the Commission for medicines that are here, as I said, convinced me that it is not doing what the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina expects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25105	Thank you. Deputy Chairman, Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25106	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, all present guests at today's session, I warmly welcome you all. My question was addressed to the minister of security, referring to the overall security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, particularly from the aspect of strengthening the migrant crisis and, of course, the activities of various organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and from this aspect of the even threat to security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I, first of all, can only thank the Minister for the answer I received, but with the content of the answer simply cannot leave this, to say, indifferent to any of us because the answer is completely visible to the fact that the institutions, or as Bosnia and Herzegovina, are not ready and that we have not done anything concrete or done anything to be prepared or to welcome something that could have been talked about as a hint by now, and now it's just one fact. When I talk about it, I'm only going to get to know you very briefly because this is certainly the information that each of us needs to know. For example, the minister replied that the number of illegal migrants detected by the Border Police 2.238, the number of illegals by the 28 Foreign Affairs Service, means, which was discovered, 804, the number of illegal migrants discovered by the Foreign Affairs Service in Bosnia and Herzegovina and accepted by the border police, 1,967, the number of persons who expressed their intention of asylum 1,357, and the number of asylum seekers was 282. When I add to that the fact and the data I tried to collect and see what was done about this, then the information I received about illegal migration for the fifth month 2018 is already visible that only in the fifth month is this number 1,445, and the total number 4.207. When I add that to the part that I received in this report by the ministers that some members of these groups have already had experience in combat activities, they know weapons well, some have been part of organised criminal networks or still have been. Intelligence indicates that there are doubts about the possibility and abuse of certain hunting, shooting,... clubs that could be used to recruit new members of extremist groups. The same suspicions are involved in the activities of certain humanitarian organisations and associations of citizens. I don't want to talk much, I would also like to say, I am glad that dear colleague Emrić asked this question at today's session. The chairman of the Council of Ministers said there is a new operational plan. I will remind all of us that there has been an operational plan, in a way, that is to say, the conclusions of this Parliament. Are we still going to meet at the level of our institutions, make some kind of operational plans, or is it time to start with that? I don't think the numbers and situations that we all know allow any of us to wait with our hands cut off for what's going to happen. I think it's time for these institutions, and the Council of Ministers, and all the competent agencies whose job it is to start working concretely on the plan of activities to ensure safety, and in order to take into account the humanitarian character we're talking about and certainly need to take care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25107	Thank you. Ambassador Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25108	I thank the chairman. I received a response from the Council of Ministers to the question of the toll collection. These are the 0.25 fening funds that go to a single party of the Central Bank of 64.7 million. I asked why the funds were allocated to execution, because if we were willing to pass this Excise Act and raise funds, why are the funds in the account? The answer was, and we knew from the media, that there was no agreement on the percentage of the distribution of these funds. Of course, these funds cannot be allocated under the Law as it stands in the Single Account, the Law on the distribution of public revenue, but under the law of how the funds were raised, from which entity. The question is, therefore, how much of the funds the entity has collected from. I got a surprising answer, and you'll probably be surprised, too. Data on how much funds are collected from which the entity does not exist on behalf of the toll, because it is not being entered in the IT sector. According to the applicable rules, the information on the funds collected per place of payment is not relevant as a criterion for the allocation of the funds collected. So how much of the Federation's funding, as far as it's from the entity doesn't matter, matters what the competent authorities agree on. In my view, this is the most significant data and this is the data that plagues this country and the federal level, because the Law on the distribution of public revenue is also problematic in cantons and is not known from which canton the amount of income comes. So, both tuzlanski and Zenic-dobe cantons were cantons that made 29 remarks on the same thing. It is really illogical for me that entities do not know how much money they give on this separate party and that according to the data we heard these days in the media 27% of all of these 54 million came from Republika Srpska. So, it's a total of 12% of the funds, more will be allocated if this law that is now on board is applied, it will get an entity of Republika Srpska than it belongs to it, or as much more than it has given to the Central Bank, or to a single party. And I think this is a problem that deserves a lot of attention and that this problem should definitely be solved, and the competent ministry, or the Council of Ministers, along with the coordination mechanism, or I don't know who, should agree that these funds are being allocated, because 54 million that lies unallocated is really, really, really illogical. Thank you very much, here, and, of course, appeal for this to happen as soon as possible, this distribution of funds.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25109	Thank you. Ambassador Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25110	Thank you, Chairman. A warm greeting to all present. I had two questions, actually I got two answers for today. I use myself when, like many other MPs, I resent bad co-operation with the Council of Ministers in terms of answering our questions. It happens that some do not respond at all, others are late, others are third, I would say, offensive content, as if they correspond to the stupid people, this specifically refers to the Ministry of Transport and Communications in my previous experience, and the fourth – all the beharahs and all the flowers. It's kind of summed up our v, most of it, according to what we get from the Council of Ministers. But here, from these two answers, the first one is, I wouldn't say half-way, I sent it to the Council of Ministers, I got it from traffic, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and there it is not in their jurisdiction. It's about the Peljesk Bridge, the search for answers that remain in our debt in these discussions of last year. And, of course, the Council of Ministers didn't respond at all, but traffic and communication that they had nothing to do with it. When they make statements, they lead the neighbouring Republic of Croatia astray that there are no obstacles to construction, then it turns out there have been. Izadržati only hold on to this answer I got from the border police. I asked what happened to the reform that was announced recently, so solemnly presented to the members of the Defence and Security Commission and then cared about it. What they're responding to, that's it, all the behars and all the flowers, I have one additional question, I'd like, if someone has answers me, so they say it's like the reasons for the reform, which has not been implemented, and it's been a warrant from 2013, for everyone to carry it out, they say, stress the increasingly complex obligations imposed in the exercise of the jurisdiction of the Border Police, the insufficient coverage of certain parts of the border state. A long time ago, the director also said that we have one man on, it seems to me, 30 km, so encouraging for those who want to cross illegally, therefore insufficient coverage of police officers, an insufficient number of police officers in individual organisational units during the summer tourist season, etc., and that was the reason for them to enter the reform. In the meantime, I have the information that the Directorate for indirect taxation, therefore, is an additional question to me, the Directorate for indirect taxation, respecting all the reasons listed by the Border Police for such a need for reform, modernisation, seeks, submits an initiative, the Council of Ministers adopts that initiative, so that one number, therefore, of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, which controls border crossings, requires that one 30 number of border crossings, those for border traffic, be transferred to the jurisdiction or control of the Border Police. I guess it would be a unique case if the border police were to control and outrun the border, control the crossings, uh, deal with construction, construction, maintenance, I don't know what's going on, along the border crossings. So I'd like someone to answer that, here, but I might ask a new question, with a note that the Indirect Taxation Authority has a special service, 40 employees, to run these border crossings, and now whether in this reform, whether or not the Border Police predicted such a service or what they're building, building, building, whether or not this initiative is actually a segment of modernization of what is not here, of course, nothing written. Thank you very much, so I'm not happy with what I got, thank you to everyone who answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25111	Thank you. Ambassador Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I may, I would refer to all three questions, since three of them are given answers here, so I can simplify that thing. So I asked three questions, one relating to the dual education system around this one meeting held in Mostar, the other issue was the cause of the problem in Celic and the bankruptcy of FRIGOS and the third question was asked to the Court of BiH, and it was the fugitive, and the convicted war criminal, or General Đukić, for the tuzlanski Gate case. I got the answers and I thank you for all the answers. I can say that I am satisfied with the answer I received from the Federal Minister of Education, given that the dual education system is something that needs to be done. We haven't introduced it yet, but certain countries in Europe have very much experience with it. This is about secondary school students being educated at the same time in factories or factories, companies where they should work. And they come out of high schools trained for a kind of work, and what if these companies stop working or change the purpose of their production, then we have again completely missed that additional part of educational, or practical education in the dual system. The Minister of Education, the federal one agreed that these things would also be considered, taken into account and would not be introduced without these additional measures of the dual system of education. And I'm grateful for that answer. As for this FRIGOS, Čelić, I don't know if you know, Čelić was once an extremely developed area which, 90 years ago, was, let's say, called him Little Switzerland because people worked extremely well and were particularly well known for their fruit production. To this extent, they developed this fruit production that Slovenian companies invested and built the plant, a large freezer. However, after the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as everything that was, non-transparent privatisation, suspicious privatisation, or whatever you want to give me, or criminogenic privatisation, has made it an extremely big problem, and Čelić is no longer close to what he was. In that sense I asked the question, the question was passed on to the institutions of Tuzla Canton and I received an answer that indicates that the state does not actually intervene, does not act in an adequate way, quite slowly, and this is indeed a very serious issue, but as they have promised and it stands, that the measures of the judiciary that will be taken on this issue are now expected. Therefore, the judiciary acts slowly, but this slowness is probably due to the slow action of other institutions that precede the proceedings of the court. 31 From the Court of Justice of BiH only got one, in fact, to tell you the truth, a completely incomprehensible answer to me. I got an answer that I had no right to ask the court a question. I don't know why I don't have the right to any institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if there is a problem that we are interested in as representatives, that is, our voters who possess me daily, as well as each of us, with certain issues that interest them. As an answer, although you have no right to ask that question, here, the Court will answer me. And before that, let me point out, I asked the same question to the Justice Department and I asked if the Justice Department had no answer to pass it on to an institution that could give an answer, relevant, on that matter. So that's what kind of surprised me, but well, never mind. But here, in any case, thank them and for that warning, and thank you for that answer, but that is just another proof, the answer that says that they are no longer able to take account of it and to worry about it, for example, the Republic of Serbia has done something or has done something, which again is incomprehensible to me, that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not have the right or desire, or have no opportunity to respond in such cases to satisfy justice, in order to satisfy the questions that the people ask them. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25113	Thank you. Ambassador Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25114	I thank the chairman. First of all, you've read that I've referred the urens to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but you haven't mentioned that I've also referred to the secretary of the Joint Commission for Human Rights whose response I've been waiting for since August 2017, so I ask that this be recorded, that the emergency has gone both to the secretary and to the Commission and to provide me with an answer. I'll be waiting a year for the secretary's answer. Anyway, as far as all these emergencyes I've referred to, it's a total of 21 questions. For some answer, I have been waiting for almost a year, and besides this, which I have mentioned specifically now, now I will wait a year for the Council of Ministers to respond to, and, in particular, the stenograms and conclusions of last summer's Council of Ministers' session. E, since the Council of Ministers, at its next session in the summer of last year, explicitly annulled the conclusions adopted at its previous session, that this express cancellation of these conclusions followed my parliamentary question, and after an anonymous letter from the civil servants I received, and since for a year now, despite all these urencies and oral issues that I remind you of continue to deliver the requested matter, it seems to me that you are already hiding something there. I really urge the College to provide me with the delivery of this material in accordance with the Rules of Procedure which gives me the right to perform my duties here in the Assembly. Also, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Isaković and I have been waiting almost three months for a reply from the Council of Ministers chaired by the Chairman of the Executive Intelligence Committee on Statistical Data, therefore, not operational, on statistics concerning the work of the OSA. Since we've been waiting so long, since I've already referred two urens to this matter, given that OSA is without any 32 parliamentary supervision for a year, it seems to me that you've been hiding something here, too. And I urge the College to secure delivery of all these questions that I've been waiting for, here, for some months and some almost a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25115	Okay. So we've concluded this agenda point. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Intelligence and Security Act to the BiH Today's Agency under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01,02-02-1-1104/18, of 04.05.2018 You got the bill. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 08.05.2018. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Deputy Chairman, Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25117	Thank you very much. As for the procedure for adopting amendments to the Intelligence and Security Agency Act, it should surely be on the agenda sometime before. Of course, it is the responsibility of the motionor in terms of the Council of Ministers and I will not talk about why and how. Until today, we have not received any amendments to this Law or amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, which concern the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decisions on the appeals that I have made. As regards the amendment of the Intelligence and Security Agency Act, which we have on the agenda today, I would like to say that, with respect to the fact that we had to resolve this issue, there is no way that an emergency procedure is justified in the light of, above all, the Opinions of the Legislative Sector which stated that it is clear from the reasoning of the bill that it does not contain the principles on which the proposal for a law is based as prescribed in Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of our House. It also states here that it is not in line either, narrating, with the House of Peoples, and also from that Opinion that the bill does not comply with the acts in terms of, meaning, nomotechnical order and the names of these articles. It may seem to us that these are formal matters, but I will only remind you, and I will talk about this when the Law comes to the agenda, that the Constitutional Court has established in relation to the disputed provisions that, in the case of extending the importance of the order for the application of security measures, there is no clear regulation on the extent of the discretion given by the President of the Court of Justice of BiH or the judge given by him. From this proposal for a law that we have seen that neither this proposal implements the Constitutional Court of BiH's ruling, but again I will say about the proposals and the explanations later. Now I want to say that in no way is it good that this House does not respect the opinions and views of, above all, the legislative and legal sector, and that it has the opinion of the competent commission which, in the procedure which is urgent under the proposal of the Council of Ministers, is not necessarily necessary, I understand that. I therefore ask all of my fellow Members and colleagues if we care to pass one of these laws, and I hope it is, which is not, which should be in accordance with the Constitution and conventions, to which we should all be treated in the same way and whose purpose and interest it should be, that not 33 should be accepted in this urgent procedure, but should go by, of course, either a shortened or regular procedure so that the competent commission may also be given and manifested to this opinion, and that we, as Parliamentarians, try to make a contribution to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision, and also this Law which should, in some way, be one kind of security on all fundamental rights, regardless of who it refers to. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25118	Thank you. Mirsad Đonlagić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'd refer to what I've been talking about earlier about the Commission's unhappiness. So we need to find ways to force the commissions to work, or to force those who are in commissions to do their job for which they are here, because Parliament's work consists of both work in committees and working in plenary sessions, or Parliament's session. I would also like to stress that, on these things that are extremely important for the life of every single person in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we must come to the conclusion that civilian oversight of these services is something that may be most important in the whole of Parliament's functioning, because if we have a curved or we have some part that's out of the system or if we have some part that's out of civilian control, I can only imagine, and I don't want to mention here which deviations can come out of such a detached process. Therefore, and with the wish that an absolute commission which is the Joint Committee on the work of the OSA, which in this case is not present in any way, must have insight, must give its position and must meet on this issue, regardless of the fact that there are no presidents of the Commission, have two vice-presidents who can also convene a meeting of this Commission. On behalf of the SBB Club, I propose not to accept the proposal that this, on the proposal of this Act, go according to emergency procedure, but to go into regular procedure, and that no commission phase should be missed and that, in every way possible, members of the Commission, speak, convince, force or be strictly asked to hold a session of the Joint Committee on Oversight over the work of the OSA, regardless of which of the two vice-presidents, will, in any case, not say at all that they can neither call on this Commission to discuss this issue. So, according to what I was saying, the commissions have to do their job and we suggest this goes into regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25120	Thank you. Mrs. Milica Marković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, I'll just say briefly why both the SNSD Club and I personally, therefore, dispute the Council of Ministers' proposal for this amendment to the law to go according to emergency procedures. For the simple reason that, first of all, if Mrs Borjana Krišto had not been appealed to the Constitutional Court and the 34 decisions of that Constitutional Court, this item of the agenda would not have been found today, this, in the proposal by the Council of Ministers, because it is clear and evident that the interest of the Council of Ministers, individuals sitting there, is absolutely not to open this story and not to put it on Parliament's agenda. The second reason is that there is no Commission position here, and it is uncertain whether we will at all obtain it in the next period, how, in what way, it automatically means that there is no parliamentary oversight of such an important, important area and sector in this country whose work concerns all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that is why we think that the amendments to the Election Law are in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, which are proposed to go according to the emergency procedure with absolutely unfounded by the Council of Ministers, because the fact and their efforts show that they and this thing want to break over their knees and that this is only resolved, that the law is eventually amended, that the Constitutional Court's decision is satisfied, and that all other issues and reasons that are, I say, more urgent than the law's amendment itself, the work, the results, certain agility, the phenomenon, the deviation and everything else present in that Agency are not being put on the agenda and not being asked to discuss here. What counterpart Đonlagić said, that I would not repeat now, are really the most urgent reasons that can exist to put a theme like this on the agenda. And what was recently in the media that OSA's work had matured to schedule a thematic session of Parliament to discuss their work absolutely stands as a fact. I know that Mrs. Krišto has asked for this in the College, that such a point be placed on the agenda, Mr. Šefik Džaferović and Mr. Mladen Bosić disputed. Why does Mr. Džaferović do this to us at SNSD is clear, because he meets the requirements of his party boss who is important to hold that agency in some semi-private status... SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25122	Please stick to the agenda. We're talking about the urgency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25123	Well and that's the reason for the urgency, I'm saying you need to put the urgency on the agenda session... SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25124	Don't gossip about college when you talk about procedure. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25125	Please don't argue with me, but let me take my time and say it. So the reason why SNSD is against an emergency procedure is also what I'm talking about. Much more urgent reasons for the debate in Parliament are that you are contesting to put an end to Parliament's agenda at all on the work of the OSA. But I'm not surprised for you, I'm surprised why Mladen Bosić argues and why he defends Bakir Izetbegović's interests through the OSA. So, we think, at the very least, that it is necessary and appropriate for this to go into regular procedure, and any urgency at which the Council of Ministers insists is, therefore, once again I will say, just the drive to break things over the knee and to formally satisfy the Constitutional Court's decision, and, of course, it is very discriminatory what will happen next. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25126	Thank you. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25127	I thank the chairman. I persistently, here, already more debaters here persistently violate Article 77. Rules of Procedure. I remind you, the subject is an emergency procedure, the topic is whether or not we want to solve this issue or we want to, I'm surprised here by people who are constantly talking about security risks to this country, about radical movements, and then they want to leave them without any distractions. What if the Constitutional Court does all this? Are we going to let those potential terrorists we scream every day and scream for them to be unsupervised? So, the topic is the urgency of the procedure and please do not let it come out of the discussion. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25128	Yes, I've already asked my colleagues and colleagues to discuss the urgency of the procedure, so we don't spread the discussion any further. We'll discuss the Law if we get into a situation to discuss the Law, so we follow the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Dušanka Majkić has her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25129	At first, I would ask you to warn the MPs who use the term – they are roaring. This is not appropriate for colleagues in Parliament and I ask you to take care of the use of expressions, non-civilization expressions in this House. The other thing is it's just amazing that someone could have thought of a situation like this when there's almost no person in this House who doesn't have anything to say about the work of the Intelligence Service that he's going through an emergency procedure. No, it's not appropriate for the Agency to work. I know it's a higher power, because the Council of Ministers was thinking about how to get to the Law, and he knew what problems were waiting for him since there was no commission that, however, the Commission was not working, so one minute he turned his head and didn't see the Constitutional Court's decision, he didn't see that there were a lot of things that needed to be done, and it made sense to allow MPs to act. So, there is no argument other than that that is present here with all of us, the absence of a commission, and in this we ourselves have come into the position of working without a commission, or the Agency without supervision, and to convince us further that it should remain an emergency procedure, and let the full work of the Agency be only under the supervision of a political party, so people are not correct, that I do not use a more difficult word. Please bear in mind that in addition to this, inconsistencies with the Constitutional Court's decision, there is a need for members of the competent Commission to discuss this problem and thus to place it on the House and, therefore, there is a need to intervene in certain parts of the Law. Well, I beg you, when we take all this into consideration from this resulting process, we need to allow everyone to intervene if they think this law needs to be fixed. Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25130	Thank you. Mr. Predrag Kožul, discussion. Here you go. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25131	Here, I will join myself, to be within the agenda, to think that the seriousness of the subject concerned by this Law, the seriousness of matter, and also the seriousness of the provisions that we have seen here really means that the emergency procedure is not the happiest solution and it is not a good solution for this Law, regardless of the urgency, but I will very briefly remind you of the initiative that I have submitted to the College on 15.03. this year, and in which it says this - I propose a haste preparation and the agenda of the Reselection of members of the Joint Committee for the Control of the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH, and all in accordance with the provisions of Article 18(3) of the Law and Article 30 (1) and (2) of the Rules of Parliament House of Representatives. So, on the explanation of the two sentences alone – the Joint Commission for the Control of the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency has long been blocked in its work. The main reason for the blockade is the appointment of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Committee against the above mentioned article 18. Laws and Article 30. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives... SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25132	The procedure, Mr. Kožul, regarding the specific agenda point, that's the second point.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25133	Thank you. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25134	Thank you very much. Please once again, do not in your speeches abuse the Rules of Procedure because I have to react, and to my reaction comes your reaction, anyone who is here in the College, then needlessly we are wasting time. Let's respect the Rules of Procedure, all of us. Mr. Nikola Špirić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25135	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Not to go into the procedure room, so my colleagues said what they were thinking. So why am I against emergency procedures? Because I disagree with the content of the amendments to the law, it's sensitive matter. The listening technique available to the Service can easily be used if it is in the hands of individuals. So this law instead of making it different, it strengthens it. The case of an extension of the listening measures of 48 months is given strictly to the President of the Court and the Director of the Agency to decide and, therefore, it is essential to change things substantially and therefore I am against an emergency procedure. So in order to reduce abuses, I have nothing against anyone, but if we are already doing the law, you must allow us to act in amendment because it is about major changes. That's one thing. Secondly, I can't believe there's still no sensitivity in this country to the proposals coming from entities, and people have built together the BiH Intelligence Service. One entity can't be the subject of processing the Service, and another... in everything the Service does. So we're either part of it or we're the target of it. That is why I am to change the content, to prevent anyone from being the director so that they can abuse the technique over anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're witnessing trials that lasted three, not three years. People pay the price of abuse of technique. And yesterday, the Court appointed an important man who was also president of the party, and an MP in the House of Peoples, Mr. 37 Radončić. So, we need people to define the laws that it's impossible, and that's why I disagree with the essence, and I'm sorry that people go through torture, nudity, for abuse. Thank you very much. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25136	Thank you. Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25137	I also have to say that I'm uncomfortablely surprised that someone who once led the Intelligence Commission doesn't know at least that all the evidence and all the measures taken by the Intelligence Agency can't be evidence in a court of law and can't be used as evidence in a court of law. What's used as evidence are special investigative actions that are collected by police agencies. In this case, the leader, it's a police agency, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, as it is in entities, I don't know, the MUP, the MUPs have that possibility. So what he collects with OSA is no evidence in court, I guess that's how much we know. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25138	Thank you very much. The representative, Mr. Nikola Špirić, is correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25139	If it's all the way Miss Pandurević says, what's OSA going to do, let us cancel it if what she collects you can throw free into the basket? Many pay the price, I say, many have paid the price, perhaps not in this mandate, perhaps in the past, perhaps in the past, it is irrelevant, but give as responsible people to prevent such an opportunity. That's why I'm against emergency procedures. So no, here are the people of XY, the management of the OSA, so here is not at the centre of the discussion of OSA's leadership, but it's not true that the gathering of OSA is just like that in the lattic. So take it now, so I don't analyse how Mr. Minister began to incriminate the institutions of Republika Srpska based on information, and he forgot that his migrant crisis was within the country. That's the possibility of abuse and guidance. And so I ask that the content be changed if there is a mood, if not, bring the law whatever you want, but I think this country needs good and applicable laws. Thank you very much. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25140	Thank you. Mr. Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25141	...two, three debates and it is ok, of course, I support that everything is in accordance with the Constitution, with the law, with the European Convention on Human Rights, European Standards, etc., etc., this Law was before and was in application and respected colleague Špirić was also chairman of the Council of Ministers and he was Minister of Finance and was part of a tight body that 38 followed the Intelligence and Security Agency and I don't remember, that they had any major objections to the Law, both to human rights, and to the work of the Agency, and to the application of the Law and to the overall situation. Is that one discussion when you're part of the government and you're in power and you have that position, especially such a visa, to be prime minister, and quite another when you're not, I don't know if that's the case. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25142	Thank you. Mrs. Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25143	Mr Rančić, this is not about how anyone experiences the OSA and sees the Law that applies to it, but about the fact that a story is open here, therefore, by some procedure which was independent of this Parliament and of the MPs. So, according to one MP's appeal, the decision came and now we have an open story. When the story is open, the question arises whether we want to do quality things when we open the story, or if we want to do it just like that, that's what it's called. So, when Mr Špirić was chairman and how you defined him, what he was doing at the Council of Ministers, he certainly did not have the opportunity to undermine and incriminate the institutions of Republika Srpska, as he is doing today. And I'm surprised that Mrs. Pandurević's objection here, which simply makes her realize that she doesn't understand what she's talking about and what she's talking about, so you don't understand that this is about an institution that is funded, has a budget of over 30 million over the year, is financed by the resources of all taxpayers, including taxpayers from Republika Srpska, but the Republika Srpska is the target of the Agency and the subject of observation, and the elaborate and any actions that are inappropriate and unacceptable. Now, that Mr. Rančić doesn't bother you and I can understand, but I don't understand why it doesn't bother Aleksandra Pandurević and why she's so upset that the story is so good, and useful and important for Bosnia and Herzegovina and that everything is fine with OSA, and many see it as wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25144	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25145	I must say that I will file criminal charges against NN persons from the port to abuse their position in order to tear down the institutions of Republika Srpska, and as a witness, I will list Mrs. Marković, because she obviously has knowledge that we do not have here. Mrs. Marković, if you have any knowledge that someone is misusing any institution illegally, then you are obliged to inform the prosecution and the handling agencies. Secondly, we all know that we have a security problem in this country, so experts from Republika Srpska's MUP, Mr. Predrag Ćeranić, Mr. Dževad Galijašević, are constantly warning us that in this country we have thousands, perhaps 10,000 very dangerous terrorists who are about to blow up half the country with explosives. If we don't adopt anything, anything, and the Constitutional Court deletes the provisions, those dangerous terrorists will be without any control. I think it's better and the worst solution than to leave people like that unsupervised so they can do whatever they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25146	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25147	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I do not understand this kind of information delivery because obviously we here want, at a time when Bosnia and Herzegovina, the only country in the region, and please deny me, there is no parliamentary oversight of the Intelligence and Security Agency, we want that in an adequate manner, by treating that Article 78, all other facts and views to be articulated through regular procedures, given that at a time when there is no supervision of the Council of Ministers, we are trying to make this, amend and supplement the Law available on the agenda. Is Parliament so naive to accept such an initiative by the Council of Ministers. We propose that amendments and additions of the Law be implemented in accordance with the ordinary procedure, that all be allowed to make amendments and come to that solution. It is the only way, urging the College of the House of Representatives to invest energy and efforts to allow Parliament to have control over the Intelligence and Security Agency. What does the Intelligence and Security Agency, what are the procedures, what are the goals, we recognize well enough, who feeds the obavještajno and Security Agency, who informs people, who talk about people badly wanting to make affairs, and we know that well, but there will come a time when we will talk about it. But at this point in time when it comes to amending and supplementing the law in accordance with the Constitutional Court's ruling, we must make sure that we cannot buy into the game of the Council of Ministers that we adopt the law by an urgent procedure, because the Council of Ministers is aware that there is no parliamentary supervision and knows that in the ordinary procedure, the Commission would have to state its position on amendments and additions to the Law. It's true and it's a fact. Are we gonna let it go like that? Today someone is the subject of such intrigues and such initiatives by individuals who indicate people, maybe tomorrow they'll be someone else, maybe tomorrow someone else will abuse the Intelligence Security Agency. Is there a right for Parliament in such a way that... [[the speaker is warned on time]] I ask you once again, I urge you, that we put the law down in the ordinary procedure, that, on the basis of the views, we make amendments and that we may be able to consider and adopt amendments and amendments to the law at the end of the month, or at the beginning of the next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25148	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25149	...the way my colleague Pandurević corrects the wrong quote seems to me to have private lessons at the Agency, but my advice is that it wouldn't be a bad time for her to still have, then it would be quite all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25150	Thank you. Discussion, Damir Arnaut. Here you go. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25151	Thank you. Oh, here, just first of all, I mean, I can't believe I heard that the information that OSA collects can't be used in judicial proceedings, look at Article 90. The OSA Act, paragraph (2) which states – if the Agency receives information on illegal activities of that information, shall be reported by the D.A., the investigating authorities and other relevant bodies. This is one of the basic functions of the OSA, and this is one of the fundamental ignorances of the matter we just heard. However, as far as the proceedings are concerned, we should return to the reason why the Council of Ministers adopted this proposal to amend and supplement the Intelligence and Security Agency Act, which is because of the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH following Mrs Krišto's appeal, by which the Constitutional Court has declared certain provisions of this Act unconstitutional. That was almost a year ago, the Council of Ministers has done nothing about it so far, and now they claim it is an urgent issue. So there's obviously something that doesn't add up. However, I now recall, when the Constitutional Court considered Mrs. Kristo's request for a constitutional assessment, that is, the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and one and the other, and the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, what those commissions think about Mrs. Krišto's request, the constitutionality of the contested provisions, etc. And I am saying all of this because I am now and I was then chairing the ustavnopri Fire Commission, and I remember well that the Constitutional Commission, at least the House of Representatives, even at two sessions of its own, was even considering this request by the Constitutional Court and establishing the position and opinion on Mrs. Krišto appeal and then, in accordance with the procedures, delivered it to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples did the same thing, and I don't know if it was at one or two sessions, but it must have been, too, she was considering it. And now the question arises, so the Constitutional Commission has had the opportunity to give its opinion and view on the appeal, on the constitutionality of the contested provisions, and here it is now required to adopt a law without the opinion and attitude of the Constitutional Commission, because the emergency procedure implies that you do not have a position or jurisdiction, but in this case the same important issue is also the Constitutional Commission, given the reasons why we have come to this situation at all, that the Council of Ministers proposes these amendments and complements. The situation is being ruled by the Constitutional Court of BiH. And if we were to read about the appeal and the request of the Constitutional Court at that stage of the proceedings, then it is really illogical that after the Constitutional Court has declared certain provisions unconstitutional that the Constitutional Commission does not get a chance to see what it thinks about those provisions that Mr. Mektić wrote. So, if an emergency procedure is adopted, no constitutional committee, no House of Representatives, and no House of Peoples will have the opportunity to give their position whether the amendments, which are caused by the unconstitutional nature of the current provisions, are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If the Constitutional Commission doesn't have a chance to give its position on this, then here the whole process is derrogated and the question arises why. And here I agree with Professor Đonlagić that one of the reasons why it is done is simply to ablimate the Joint Committee for the Control of the work of the OSA from its responsibility to convene meetings, to hold meetings, to eventually carry out parliamentary supervision over it, can even say, the most important agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thus be derivated by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what I say to those who are full of the mouths of the protection of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is how you define the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by letting Dragan Mektić propose something and bypassing the Constitutional Legal Commission that I chair. In this way, you will not derogate, among other things, any commission of constitutional law, or any other home, to derogate the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples, which Halid Genjac is chaired by, you will not be given the opinion of the Commission, you will not allow the Joint Commission to give an opinion on the work of the OSA, so long as we do so. 41 And as for these findings that the Constitutional Court will put certain provisions out of force after it has declared them unconstitutional, I have spoken of this in the context and other laws, it really bothers me when I hear an MP, so the representatives of the legislative authority, to state the claim that the BiH Constitutional Court will do something. It is incomprehensible to me that someone in this branch of government knows what the judiciary will do, thus repealing the principle of power-sharing. And when it comes to what the Constitutional Court can do, we can already talk about it, and then I remind you that the Constitutional Court of BiH has a wide diapazon of opportunities at its disposal because this right is given by the Constitution of BiH, which prescribes that the Constitutional Court itself adopts its own rules on work, and these rules on labour give the Constitutional Court the opportunity to put certain provisions of the ban force, which the Constitutional Court only uses in certain situations. But also those provisions of the Constitutional Court provide the Constitutional Court with the opportunity to delay the placing out of force or to decide not to put the provisions out of force at all, and for the record, that situation knows, let's say, the best Mr Komšić who, when he was a member of the BiH presidency, challenged the obviously unconstitutional provisions of the Federation Constitution which say that the president and vice-presidents of the Federation can only be of three constituent people and the Constitutional Court then agreed with his applause, said that it was discriminatory towards the members of the others, but then there was no decision that this ruling, the Constitutional Court's decision would not be implemented until the implementation of the Sadic-Sajdić-Finci sud's judgment in Strasbourg, which, ah I think is one way, this, this, and legally overtense, but in any case in accordance with the rules. So, and this is the possibility of a Constitutional Court that the Constitutional Court has at its disposal to decide that something will not put out of force until the next situation. Therefore, I think there is no point in scaring the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially by referring to what the BiH Constitutional Court will do, which is indeed the reason for fearing the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina if the MPs in this House know in advance what the Constitutional Court will do, even when certain judges of the Constitutional Court are your former colleagues from some of your parties here specifically benches, even then you cannot know what the Constitutional Court will do. But in any case, these are the opportunities available to the Constitutional Court and should not therefore derogate the procedure, avoid the debate on the Constitutional Commission, absolve the Joint Commission on the work of the OSA and leave the OSA outside parliamentary supervision, because this is indeed a unique case in the democratic world, in the Western democratic world that the OSA, or the Intelligence Agency, has no parliamentary or other kind of civilian surveillance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25152	Thank you. The discussion, vice-president, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25153	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. We have heard a lot here about the debate on the urgency of the procedure and about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH. I am not going to say, of course, we all know what happened to Mr Špirić's shift and why he was removed, why the Commission was not appointed, or the new chairman, which the Commission has not done its job, we all know what the rules of the Constitutional Court are, etc., I will say that all the business conditions have been met that this law is being considered according to the emergency procedure and I propose that the House adopts the proposal that the law be considered in accordance with the emergency procedure and that the vote is finally on this law as proposed. The reason is very simple. The Constitutional Court has given the deadline of six months, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are in charge did not act in that time, the time has expired, and of course we now expect what decision the Constitutional Court of 42 BiH will make. What a decision the Constitutional Court will make is a constitutional court matter, but an experience with e.g. By election law, when it comes to elections in Mostar City, the experience with the Election Law when it comes to the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH teaches us that the Constitutional Court can, and also in the rules, put out the force of that provision. And today, because we haven't changed those laws, we have serious problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina when the Mostar elections are at stake and about elections for the federal House of Peoples. So it is possible for the Constitutional Court to do so. How will the Constitutional Court do that? I don't know. And it needs to be a very serious signal for us how to act and how to act. We need to pass this Law before the next Constitutional Court session and thus avoid any possible risk. Given what is happening with the amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedure and in view of these discussions today, I am afraid that there are not those in Bosnia and Herzegovina who may not want to make any amendments to either law, that these provisions of both laws are put out of force and that the capacity of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is then questioned, mildly put into question, and I on this subject, if we can come to that for a long and long time. That's why I suggest adopting emergency procedures and voting for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25154	Thank you. Debate, Safer Demirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25155	Dear Chairman, Your Honor, of course, I warmly welcome you all. When the topic is this interesting and challenging I am aware in this discussion of two things, first that the way to vote on this point and whether it will be an emergency procedure or not, will be treated, will be interpreted in various ways. And secondly, I am aware that this Law, or amendments to this Law, may have some chance of going through only an emergency procedure in some shortened or regular procedure very likely there is no way of going through this. But because, of course, of course, of how it's going to be interpreted, but I want to, so, for the public and for, here, my colleague, I'm going to vote against an emergency procedure for two reasons. First, it's already mentioned in the discussions, so it's about this commission section, the position of a commission that we have nothing to do with this, the work of this agency. And the other thing is that some of the provisions that are proposed in this Law are very discriminatory and certainly that they can be much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25156	So we don't have any more applications for discussion. Prepare to vote for an emergency procedure under this before the law. For 15, versus 17. There is no general majority, so the emergency procedure has been denied. Now he's going to vote on the short procedure. In 19, versus 13. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Are you in? SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25157	43 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25158	Right now, we're going to the second round right now. In 19, versus 13. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. It means we've adopted a review of the law by a brief procedure. This concludes point 3. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. The request of MP Saša Magazinović to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number. 01-02-1-1206/18, since 16.05.2018 You got the bill. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 16/05/2018. In accordance with the Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Sector, Ambassador Saša Magazinović submitted a proposal for a law in which a correction was made. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25160	I thank the chairman. I welcome you and your deputies, members and representatives of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Just two previous questions to settle to ease the debate. So, the proposal for this bill is not a proposal for smartness, I know others don't know, and right at first to be honest, and I did on several occasions this mistake by going to some logic, as I thought it should be done, and even defending it, that my own misunderstanding until I got the elaborate – Analysis of the situation regarding the emphasis and use of the flags of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on some thirty pages made by the Heraldic Society in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is made up of people from the academic community who deal with this area. The second thing as previous issues, and which is why I think we will also relax the story of an emergency procedure, is that the most state institutions of the Presidency, Parliament, the Council of Ministers, the Central Bank have a properly highlighted flag, there is no mistake and that is done in the way that this Law has been proposed. I looked at it yesterday and, for example, in front of local self-government units, there was a flag in front of municipalities in Sarajevo, let's say it wasn't in front of the SIPA. But the essence of this Law is that, in addition to the law of the prescribed provisions that define the appearance and dimensions, as well as the criminal provisions for the violation of certain members of the Law, we complement the law to the provisions that prescribe the correct, or proper emphasis on the flag. Irregularities are all around us, and there's no bad intentions, but the reason people find out in different ways what it's supposed to be like. I will not speak now of symbolism wrongly placed, i.e. upside-down flags, I will just say that other than pointing out the flag in the wrong way and in our society is quite often noticeable and another, other way of breaking this law, and these are the dimensions of the flag, 44 each setting it up and doing how it occurs to him, although the Law in this segment has very precisely defined. What, since we're talking about the procedure, I think the Law is very simple, that what science in this area says, and what the institutions, here, the ones I've counted, most importantly already apply, defines that in one place it would finally be written in order for the flag to be correctly pointed out and not to be witnesses of the erroneous flag at each step. What the law defines is exactly how that flag in the corner is set, so the flag in our hall, and I don't think there's anyone who could in any way challenge the law in the essential sense. Now if someone wants us to discuss this longer, to open up any other debate, I don't mind going to this and to another procedure, I just think it's so simple that there's no need for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25161	Thank you. Ambassador Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25162	I thank the chairman. You see, I don't think it's disputed that one part of the business provisions is fulfilled for an emergency procedure, is the law simply written, it's not disputed, uh, but it seems to me that maybe it's a little overly written, that being concrete is not common to the definition, and then in the same sentence, a decimal – which means. This is usually reserved for the notional part of the law at the beginning of the first or second term, and here in Article 5a) in the position (1) and in attitude (2) we have – the national flag is usually highlighted and used in its normal horizontal position, the comma, which means that white stars are closer to the mast. Uh, then this in the second attitude again "which means". So, uh, we would suggest that this goes into a shortened procedure if only these things could be fixed at the commission stage. We will definitely support this bill but we think it really does stand, without going into any of the intentions, which are very good, and we really support the proposals' intentions, just to fix what is unusual in the text of the law, this, that the definition is given in the law itself instead of in that provision regarding the meaning of the text itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25163	Thank you. There is no more, and there is, Saša Magazinović correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25164	So, I don't have a problem accepting anyone's opinion, and so does my colleagues Arnaut. The Boston Citizens' Association, therefore the association that brings together people who, among other things, and on the scientific basis, deal with this area, are people who have suggested this Law and the essence was that anyone who, for whatever reason, needs or needs to highlight the flag in the way that the Law is intended, can finally know how it seems rightly, that not only institutions are privileged because they have people who know that it explains to them what this is all about. I don't have a problem with the Code 45 being done, I don't have a problem going into short procedure, I just want to tell you that this law has criminal provisions. The penal provisions of this Law say from a thousand, fines ranging from 1,500 to 7.5 thousand for authorities or a legal person who misrepresents the flag. From 300 to 750 for the responsible face and 100 to 400 marks for the physical face. I'm not one of those who represents the the thesis that I need to do and punish people, until it's definitely defined by law. But believe me today if this were to be charged to raise more money than these excises, because except for these few of the most significant institutions in the state on all sides are upside-down flags. I saw three flags from house to office here in Parliament the other day, all three were wrongly placed, one at the institution, the other two at private companies. So, the intention is to solve this question, as far as I'm concerned, if most people think that I should go into a shortened procedure, I'm fine, but I'm calling on us to make a statement about this emergency, if it's okay for the rest of this formulation to do it right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25165	Thank you. Discussion, Mirsad Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25166	... I fully understand and approve of the intention of colleague Magazinović, but our principled view is that this is better as best as possible because it's very simple and if in that simple text we can't do, as it is said, I hope I won't make a mistake, not technically correct then we won't get a law that's so simple and it's made quality. Its core, its essence and the proposal to adopt this Law is not questionable at all, even I think that my colleague Magazinović did not mention that there are criminal provisions, no criminal provision would have been applied if it hadn't applied as far as I know. And I have to be honest, uh, and me, I've been watching Mr. Magazinović's press conference, and I have to admit that it's all been expensive for me, the first time I've heard how it should actually look, and we've debated and worked countless times because I've had a chance through, let's go through the sport to see these things. But I think it would really be very correct and very meaningful to listen to this proposal of ours, to accept this proposal to go into a shortened procedure and that this whole thing is done together and that there are absolutely no objections, here neither in content nor in its notional acceptance of any such law. Here, that's it, so it backs me up here but our goal was to do this this little bit, how we can put what we can right now into order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25167	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25168	Chairman, here's to saving time for everyone, there's no reason for us to vote, here I'll accept this going the way our colleagues suggested, and I can see that it won't be a problem to adopt, so let it be passed to one of the next sessions that's more important than whose word will be concrete in law.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25169	So there's no need to vote, since it's a proposal, there's actually a need to vote. We vote, so we vote for an emergency procedure. 14 for, versus 11. There is a general majority, there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. We're going to the second round of voting. There's no general majority. So now we're going to go to a short-term vote. 19 for, versus 10. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. We're going to the second round of voting. 19 for, 11 against, 4 abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. It means that this law will be considered in a shortened procedure. This concludes point 4. Before opening point 5, I would like to inform you that the College has decided to shorten the debate to 5 minutes since today's session will have to be completed 17 hours ago. Point five, Ad. 5. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on whether to vote on the proposal of MP Amir Fazlić, who reads: "The House of Representatives' House of Representatives of BiH predates the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of MPs of Amir Fazlić (Law No: 01-02-1-668/18, since 05.03.2018) by means of an urgent legislative procedure", Act No: 01-02-1-668/18, dated 20.04.2018. The House College did not agree on that proposal. The debate is closed, the proposal for a conclusion will later be declared in the second round of voting. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. Adviser: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-02-1-476/18, since 13/02/2018 (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, already at that session that you were talking about, it is said, the reasons why I decided to accept, in essence, the proposal from the Ministry of Justice that we are considering this law, then I proposed by a hasty procedure, but here, therefore, was returned to the regular procedure and I remain in this proposal to consider this law at this Parliamentary Assembly despite the fact that we as a House of Representatives already had an examination of a similar law proposed by the SDA Club, therefore, it is currently under consideration in the House of Peoples. So, the fundamental reason was because, I thought then, I think now, that the Ministry of Justice essentially implemented all the necessary procedures that were imposed and that exist under the Rules of Procedure and the Laws when it comes to amending and supplementing the law. In fact, in our conclusion, we have recently commissioned the Council of Ministers to prepare for the amendments to this Law, again on the trail of the Constitutional Court's decision. The Council of Ministers tasked the Ministry of Justice to do so sometime from summer last year. The Ministry of Justice has formed an interresor or already, as they have called it, implemented the necessary procedure, received all the necessary opinions and agreed, as far as I know, with the necessary institutions of the provisions of this Act and proposed at a meeting of the Council of Ministers. Some of it, I think, last time the minister explained it here for a pay phone, but for unknown reasons, to me neither day, the chairman of the Council of Ministers at least three times did not allow this proposal to be considered or I don't already know what, that I am not going into the trap to say what the Council of Ministers was thinking when he did not allow this point to be found on the agenda. So she could have ended it, this law could have ended up on the Council of Ministers one way or another, so colleagues from the Council of Ministers could have fixed it, fixed it, brought their position on it, so at least twice and again. It didn't happen, and then we got into a situation where at one of the sessions of the past we got the law, like a proposer of the SDA Club. Now, I've already said something of that, and I could say it again today that it seems to me that this law, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, did not want to put on the agenda because he had, which is in circulation the law proposed by his club, the Club of Representatives of the Party to which he belongs. But I don't know if that's the reason or any other reason, but I can't believe that everything that the Ministry of Justice has carried out, which, by all I know, is an authorised body that is authorized to propose amendments and amendments to the law of this and similar laws that are in its jurisdiction and that as a proposing of a very important law, and that it is very important to see that this 48 subject was debated in the Constitutional Court, we don't have the position and opinion of the Council of Ministers. My colleagues from the U.S.A. said, "Now I don't refer to the law that was already here, that some expert groups did it, that it was one way or the other." However, as far as I know and as far as I'm aware, and no one has convinced me, that what I have suggested is, therefore, far closer to the implementation of what is said in the Constitutional Court's decision and that I suggest to you today that the opinion of the Constitutional Commission is rejected. But, as the story had already been, and I must tell you that a decision has been taken on the Constitutional Judicial Commission, so three Bosniak hands and two Croatians have never been represented by the Serb people at the session of the Constitutional Court. I again, uh, here, I don't mind, and I wouldn't mind having these two laws that are in one way or another, in the procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly in one home or another, maybe meeting somewhere in some point and trying to find a solution and taking over the provisions of one or the other, to do this to us by the Council of Ministers. So I propose, therefore, that we reject the opinion of the Constitutional Commission which is negative, I propose one conclusion, so: The Council of Ministers is obliged to put the agenda item on the first next session of the Council – Amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedures of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to report to the Parliamentary House of BiH on its position and proposals, on its position on the draft laws in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly procedure. It seems to me that this conclusion would give the Council of Ministers the opportunity, and maybe even if he suggested, uh, I'm not going to tell us the third variant, but a variant that we'd probably all support. So, I think this conclusion would solve it if we didn't get into a situation, because some colleagues and the Constitutional Commission were afraid that none of this would go through, and on the trail of all these discussions where we can go to the Constitutional Court's decision, where we can find ourselves, so that we can still find a solution and that those who disagree with this bill, thinking that whoever already passed the procedure here is better, don't think that we are some who, as Džaferović said earlier, don't want to, says this issue. So, we want to solve it, here I would like it to be said by the Council of Ministers, its position and opinion as planned, and I want to believe that this would be the most fundamental opinion and the best proposal that could lead to a solution to this issue when it comes to the Constitutional Court's decision and the provisions of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25174	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25175	I thank the chairman. This is the typical situation where an untrue allegation was absolutely made. Mr Lovrinović said that the Commission has established the opinion with, quote - 3 Bosniak and 2 Croatian hands. Now, given that the Constitutional Legal Commission of the Constitutional House has a total of three Bošnjak, that two, Mr. Džaferović and I never miss, have never missed any session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, the impression is that the third Bosniak, Mr. Šepić, came out of the way and was present at the session of the Constitutional Commission, which simply was not the case. The fact is that the Constitutional Commission adopted this Opinion by the votes of Mr. Džaferović, me and Mr. Željko Komšić and said that the Constitutional Commission adopted the Opinion with three Bosniak hands, I will refer to Mr. Komšić, it is either a lapus or you forgot that Mr. Šepić was on the road, but I don't know how you can forget it, since it is quite a common phenomenon, or you 49 purposely imputed to Mr. Komšić by thinking that he will go unnoticed. I, as a man, have an obligation to point that out, but I also have an obligation to point out that as chairman of the Constitutional Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25176	We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH – Proposer: MP Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1-762/18, since 16/03/2018 (first reading) At the 60th House session, held on 18.04.2018, the House did not adopt a negative opinion by the Constitutional Commission. The Commission is responsible for drawing up a new opinion in accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 16 May 2018. The Commission has established the consistency of the draft law with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system, and has accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. MP Mirsad Đonlagić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since this is for who knows which time I have the opportunity to talk about education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I may be a little different than I've done before, I think, more interesting, so if you want, I'll read only headlines from printed and printed media that talk about the problem of higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The situation in the education system is chaotic; we have 8 state and 18 private universities; whether politicians are ready for the rescue of the education system in Bosnia and Herzegovina; whether diplomas from Bosnia and Herzegovina will be recognised; while in Bosnia and Herzegovina each tells its best story could draw students out, therefore, there are students, that this is already a date that tells about it. So we have a view – University of Mostar diplomas can be nostrated in Croatia, these are statements by Croatian academic officials; then, the proposal for a law on improving the state of higher education did not receive support in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; Bosnia and Herzegovina did not become a member of ENQA; the responsible claim that BH diplomas are still worth Europe, but it is an extremely free and even wrong assessment; it cannot be treated as a cost by the state of higher education; we bring down our country by bad education; at every university, academic principles must be valid without political interference. And now one case, which is just by title, may not speak enough, but a young man who is extremely dissatisfied with his relationship with him, as well as the way he is educated in Bosnia and Herzegovina went to France and has not finished the academy yet, and his film is already being called to Cannes, therefore, a young bh actor in a French film in Cannes. Then the discussion about the recognition and non-recognition of the diploma – a lot of shouting for nothing. So from all of this, these headlines, just titles, that I'm not talking about the text, it can be concluded if nothing else that the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is very complex and that we need to start talking about this issue, whether at a small door, whether or not to fully consider this problem. If we take the fact that there is an Agency for Higher Education in Republika Srpska, it can indicate whatever we can suspect now or believe that it is not, that there is either a mistrust or a desire to solve it in another way. Or if we take an example of the University of Mostar, which has actually performed accreditation based on the work of the Agency for Accreditation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all the principles and attitudes required of the University of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been respected, but the University has, at the same time, made recredit from Croatian competent institutions for higher education accreditation and has solved its problem of relations with the European Union. Serbia, which is now in the process of establishing this agency, since it has an excellent quality education, has an extremely high-quality education system with recognizable scientific institutions, educational institutions some of which are even listed on the 500 best universities in the world. They will have no problem having an agency that will be admitted very quickly to the ENQA, the European Agency and then having the Agency's co-operation in Republika Srpska, which is completely natural, and the agencies in Serbia. I wanted, if anything, to open these questions for all of this, to make this law interesting for the fate of young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina at least to make minimal changes. I haven't mentioned anywhere what's a latent problem, and that's less and less students who want to enroll in universities. And please, look at your response to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which is very shocking, but very indicative at the same time because it fully corresponds to the position of the Ministry of Education of Republika Srpska, in that position, in the final position of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, when expressing its relationship to the proposed measures, that is to say, in the Law, the proposal for a law supplementing the Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina would not achieve the objectives set out in the explanation of the proposed Law, which is to raise the quality of higher education and harmonisation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina higher education system. What if I had just proposed a complete amendment to the law? It would then be a political scandal, an earthquake, and I don't know what it would be, and my goal wasn't to admit that something wasn't right and that those institutions that were defined by the law were practically working in a way that the Agency had full meaning and full support. [[the speaker is warned on time]] But, and then it says below -- ensuring the quality of higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina can only be achieved by establishing a unique coherent quality assurance system for higher education across Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, gentlemen, if you know, so do it, make it the way it is. I'm not, if, if I can't propose any kind of change, then I guess the Department of Civil Service can, and it has to, and it won't, and it never will. The prerequisite for that, So please, uh, there was a discussion that wasn't for 5 minutes, and I know that no one is interested in education, another sentence and I'm finishing, the prerequisite for this is the work of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance of BiH independent of political and other influences. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So what do we do now? After all these stories two days ago, there was a meeting at Sarajevo's Agency with university rectors from Bosnia and Herzegovina and they themselves launched some of the things I listed in the bill's proposal. This law, I just wanted, I don't expect it to pass, I can appeal, pray, support..., to do something, I don't believe this law will pass, but at least I want to say and draw attention to the problems of higher education as key problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The people must have the opportunity to work, be educated and be healthy and can eat well and live on it in Bosnia and Herzegovina from their work. The education system has been violated and we now have more damage than benefits from that education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25179	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25180	Dear colleague, I will support your law, so that you do not understand my replica or correction of the false assumption as something which is the attack on what you have suggested. Just please don't mention to me the highly developed school that has given us thousands of diplomas over Bosnia, so whoever caught it, from Novi Sad, Chačka, Šapac, I can now count, where people ended up in a month of college. It's well known to you, not only that, but I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25181	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25182	So, I'd actually like to fill in or supplement what he's said, and it's in the materials. So, first of all, the idea is welcome and I welcome it, I have nothing against it, I used to argue about it, I have doubts about the rectorial conference and others, but now that I'm not going to go into it, but I would say that, I'm not going to say negatively, but it is also possible to say that the negative opinion came from the Higher Education Agency, and you haven't mentioned it, since several ministries that are originally in charge of that area have also come negative opinions if you can say so. So, it's a clean update, not only did the Ministry of Civil Affairs say that, one part of the ministry is positively expressed to yours, your idea that's how it is. And when it comes to the Constitutional Commission, therefore, at the same session that I was just talking about... a positive opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25183	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25184	Again, I apologize for reporting again, I had no intention, but add only one sentence, when you want to destroy one country destroy its education, you will destroy its youth, and you have destroyed the perspective of that country. And nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25185	Thank you. Discussion, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25186	I thank the chairman. 52 You see, first of all, we here have a bill that is extremely well-founded and whose only and main goal is to improve the state of higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The bill, and it cannot be minimized at all, comes from one of the most real figures in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the field of higher education and it is obvious that he knows what he's talking about and that he knows how to identify the problems in those segments where he sees them. And I can confirm that since I'm really in the middle of this. However, we have three and only three quotes, three negative opinions on this Law and what is interesting, here's the thing, so one is the opinion of the resolution minister, the state minister, Adil Osmanović, one is the opinion of the resolute Energy Minister from Republika Srpska Danet Malešević, and the third is the opinion of the director of this Higher Education Quality Insurance Agency, Mr Enver Halilović. And I'll read you some of those opinions. One opinion says and I do not go in any order – it can be concluded that the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Framework Law on Higher Education would not achieve the objectives set out in the explanation of the proposed Law, which is to raise the quality of higher education. The second opinion is to conclude that the adoption of the bill would not achieve the objectives set out in the explanation, which is to raise the quality of higher education and harmonisation of the higher education system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, overwritten, maltene identical. Third opinion - the intention to improve the situation in the area of higher education, which is highlighted in the context of the proposed amendments to the Framework Law, according to this body, will not be achieved in the way proposed by the above-mentioned amendments to the Framework Law. This is a little bit rephrase, but the same thing. And what's the conclusion? Da Adil Osmanović, Enver Halilović and Dan Malešević have absolutely the same opinion on the matter. And now I'm interested in how, but I don't know, I don't know how they could prescribe when these opinions are written independently from each other and they're coming to the Council of Ministers and then they're coming together on the coming day, uh, it looks like they've sat down and agreed and then I'm interested in how Adil Osmanović will protect Bosniak returnees in the entity of the Republic of Sprska and their right to Bosnian language by Danet Malešević, who rightly challenges them, when he and Dan Malešević have an entirely identical opinion on this proposal for a law on higher education. And there is the nakedness of all the politics, that is, the one which such politics leads us to both Bosnia and Herzegovina, and ultimately the one whose rights is Mr. Osmanović, in some other situation, only declares, and when something concrete is written, then has the same attitude as dan Malešević. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25187	I'm closing the debate on the eighth item of the agenda. We're going to nine points, Ad. Nine. Prior to the draft law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-3010/17, since 21.03.2018 (first reading) On the basis of the Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Sector, the Council of Ministers delivered the draft law on 21 March 2018. The legislative and legal sector delivered Opinion 26/03/2018, it was found that the proposal for a law is in line with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. As competent to consider the bill, the College has appointed a Joint Commission for Defence and Security. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on compliance with the Constitution 53 BiH and the legal system 16.05.2018. The Joint Defence and Security Commission delivered 15.05.2018. Opinion on principles. I'm opening a debate. No, Ambassador Hazim Rančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25189	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Since it is the first reading I, of course, have certain principled objections and concrete, of course, to certain members, but at the beginning I want to say that I will support this Law, because it is necessary to adopt it. What surprises me at the beginning is, some kind of failures by the Constitutional Commission and the Legislative Sector, because this law contains solutions that do not comply with the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration, the Law on Administration and the Council of Ministers' Decision on the principles for determining the internal organisation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration. What are my concrete objections, they concern an unprincipled, unequivocal way of using the term of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the Prosecutor General or the Prosecutor's Office, or the Deputy Prosecutor's Attorney General, is to prescribe a certain type of co-operation between this Police Agency and the Prosecutor's Office which is prescribed, of course, and the Law on the Prosecution and the Law on Criminal Procedure, and in one unconstitutional, unconstitutional way these terms are used in different members, so that I do not collect them, Article 5, etc., pardon in Article 5 (1) point (c). And also, this thing is prescribed by Article 5(3) of the Prosecutor's Law. Also in this Law, as well as in previous times, they are systematically seeking to violate the Law on the Police Body Coordination Directorate and Police Authorities Support Agency. How? So, here again through the Law Agency, the State Agency, takes itself for authority and forensics, and supplies of equipment, and education and education, and according to the Law that I quoted, it's within the jurisdiction of three agencies. So if it's going to be the police agencies, these three things, then let's change the Co-ordination Directorate's law and cancel these three agencies. So the directors and the management of the SIPA and the Border Police, so here's probably also the Systemic Co-ordination Guidelines don't allow agencies to do their job, and that's contained in this bill. Also with the organisation, the regulations of the SIPA internal organisation, I express my surprise, because here they have taken it as a commitment to do so by law, and by the regulations I have mentioned nicely, it clearly states that this is done by the Rules, so the Director adopts the Rules of Procedure with the consent of the Council of Ministers. So here is what we would like to close our eyes on, and this organization that they opted for in Article 8 of the proposed Law is contradictory of those laws. For example, we all know that the main jobs of SIPA are, therefore, the fight against organised crime, terrorism, war crimes and this financing of terrorism and money laundering. And those four organizational parts, three of them call the department, they call it the department, and one of them says it's going to be called the sector. Why do the same jobs and different names? And then even worse in that said member, material-financial affairs, then on human resources, etc., prescribe that this is about sectors. It's not the main business within the SIPA, it's the auxiliary business of this major, and it's not logical that less valuable and significant businesses are prescribed to be called the sector, and they're the main ones in three cases by the department, and only one in the three departments of the sector. And here is what they would miss, by law and by Council of Ministers' Decision, is an organisational unit that contains sub-organization units. In any case here in Article 8 or throughout the law, the sectors, as they called them, regarding the internal organisation of the SIPA, do not have their own organisational units as requested. So 54 why are sectors called, is it because someone who's going to be the head of this sector has the head of the sector's salary, and not the head of the department, has a higher coefficient? It's funny, but there it is. All of this is prescribed in Chapter III, Article 18 to 29. The Council of Ministers' decisions on the organisation, principles and principles of the organisation of the administration in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In Perspective If you'll allow me a little more, may I? [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you. Or in yet..., so first they say the Law will prescribe an organisation, and then allow the Council of Ministers in their position (5), and in the position (6) that the Director may establish new organisational forms by Regulation. These are very bad solutions, completely unacceptable, and I'm going to try to make an amendment to all these shortcomings and flaws. It is also not clear about co-operation, especially international, whether they think, in one of the members, they have prescribed that they will also do jobs for European integration, which is the responsibility of DEI, or would like to know clearly whether SIPA via the director or through one of the organisational units, whether they are their services or the Criminal and Investigation Department, or if I do not know any of the other departments, because in several places it says that they are the ones who are in charge of international co-operation. I wouldn't want them to crash. And here's another thing about the organization, Article 14 states that the director and the deputy will be set up to serve the director. It's work. the organisation of the administration under the Ministry Act and other administration bodies, as well as the decision of the Council of Ministers, accompanied by the Head of the Service, shall go to the cabinet. [[the speaker is warned on time]] That's right for both the minister and the deputy, and this wouldn't make any sense if the cabinet had a service. Since I respect, here and I've already timed out, you've limited, there's still a series of remarks I'm going to try to amend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25190	Thank you. I now announce a lunch break by 2:30. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats so we can continue our work. Next for discussion, MP Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25192	Col. Rančić said most of them, but here I would also agree with this that this is one or very clumsy law or very poorly done law, because, for example, let's continue, in article 10, it stands out for example. that we have a situation where the director and deputy director of the SIPA can now be members of political parties, which is an amazing thing. So, although this is contrary to the Law on BiH Police Officers, this law, as prepared, gives this opportunity, because it says both directors and deputy are being replaced if it is determined that it is an active member of the political party. So it can't be an active member, so it needs to be deleted completely this... that it can't be a member of a political party. It's just one of the objections to the incredibly poorly-made law and the proposed law, but, here, the first reading is so we'll see further and can act amendmentally definitely, but a lot of problems. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25193	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, here, I wanted to take a little part in the debate. Of course this is the first reading, and I'll probably have some amendments, so I wanted to draw attention if it's possible for the Proposer to do something before we have to act on the amendments until the second reading. I'm not sure, but here, let's say in Article 3. It describes, says – SIPA acts exclusively on professional grounds, so it says – not representing, not protecting, not undermining the interests of any political party..., I think this is all too high, that it's enough to put a point behind the basics, but if there is no other, I'll probably have to act as an amendment. On the other hand, it is also illogical in Article 8 and I to some of the things Mr. Rančić said, for example. I don't know how much it makes sense to put it in one department, and I've been looking for an explanation for it, I haven't found it. On the other hand, I'd like something, uh, the role of a deputy to be a little different than it's meant to be here, but it's only going to be possible through the amendments, so we're going to see until the second reading, so, as I'm going to suggest, and basically, here we're going to see, so finally, how the law goes, so I'm going to show myself at the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25195	Thank you. We're out of press releases. I'm making the ninth point in. Ten. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on before the article's entry into the agenda of the 60th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, which reads: "Information on the lack of paper for ballots: a) Pandurević on the formation of the Research Commission, b) Lock on the establishment of a temporary Ad hoc commission to monitor the implementation of the General Elections in 2018", issue: 01-50-1-15-60/18 of 20.04.2018. At the 60th session of the House, held on 18.04.2018, the proposal of Parliament Aleksandra Pandurević for the inclusion of a new item in the agenda of the 60th session of the House was addressed to agree with the Kolegijum of the doma as a commission. The college didn't achieve consent. There's no discussion here. We will plead later in the second round of voting. Moving to point 11, 56 Ad. 11. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on the before-election of Senad Šepić's MP for the entry of a new item into the agenda of the 60th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Parliamentary House, which reads: "Information on the current position, the assessment of preparedness and ability of the Central Election Commission (CEC) to organise and conduct fair elections in October 2018", issue: 01-50-1-997/18 of 20.04.2018.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25204	I have a practical question, I don't see anyone in the D.A.'s presence here, whether my eyes are cheating on me. 58 SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25205	There, there's a deputy... on the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25206	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25207	There's a deputy present.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25208	Well, then it's so possible to say a few words. Since there are a lot of things that could be asked as a matter of defence, especially in a segment called state property. On several occasions in this report, it is mentioned that there is no legal basis, that there is no law to book state property, and at the same time I want to remind you of Article 71. A law on defence where it is the obligation of the BiH Ministry of Defence to draw up, on the basis of all data on immovable property, a list of immovable assets for defence purposes on which the right to management and availability and the right to use or the right to ownership is owned by the Federation of BiH, Republika Srpska or any other entity on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Later, the next member is told that the Council of Ministers of BiH and the government of both entities is obliged to conclude an agreement by 31.12.2005 when the issue of BiH Armed Forces property will be resolved. So, your claim that the Ministry of Defence should be able to provide perspective military property based on a proposal or decision by the Presidency, which is a political act, it's not a law, it can't stand and we don't understand you're a lawyer and I guess you know what we're talking about. Secondly, the Sucession Agreement, which calls on the BiH Ombudsman to apply for the registration of ownership rights in favour of Bosnia and Herzegovina, also cannot be a valid legal basis for enrollment. Republika Srpska has tried several times to achieve, explaining these things that were happening in the meantime. I remind you that Miroslav Lajčak, in a letter dated 25 June 2008, sent to the representatives of both entities' governments and the Council of Ministers, informed that an agreement must be concluded on the distribution of assets signed and adopted by the Council of Ministers and Governments of both entities. It's not done until today. valentin Incko also sent a special letter to the pravobranilaštvo and cancer on 29 April 2010 in that letter that the Agreement on the Question of Sucession regulates ownership rights between internationally recognised states and not within a single country. So this whole area that the D.A. treats, which is related to the so-called The state property is in such a state that it deserves certainly great controversy and debate, because what you wrote here doesn't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25209	Thank you. Ambassador Mirsad Đonlagić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps this remark or comment that will be in this case may not be addressed to the right address but it is a question of deexpropriation of expropriated property at local levels where an amazing thing is happening, unscrupulously kidnapped property from citizens who have been taken away with one intention and the purpose of building something, and according to a law called the 59-bit deexpropriation of expropriated property, it is to be executed in all cases when the property that has been seized or expropriated has not been brought in full for its purpose for which it has been expunged, and even provided that it is partially and paid. But what happens is that the property that's been expunged by none of its prominence has been brought to the point, but is divided into completely other purposes and said – we can't go back now, the general urban plan is waiting. It's the state crime of the worst kind and the threat of human rights and all the other elements for which this country should be prosecuted before Strazbura. So people say those who are damaged by such behaviour by the local community, because your colleagues at these levels simply do not allow that property to return to those from whom it has been taken away. Is that your jurisdiction and can you give an answer to that or are we going to have to look for that somewhere else? But since, here, let's say one report I'd like to ask if you could comment on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25211	Thank you. So I see the deputy attorney is ready to respond. Here you go. _________(?) Honored chairman, deputies, respected representatives, guests and others present. First of all, about the question of state property, I didn't realize that we had a specific question, if there is, so we can answer those questions. The report itself lists certain activities that BiH's Ombudsmans have led to specific needs and requirements in line with the powers it has. Therefore, certain activities are also guided by... state property, i.e. for the registration of military assets and are given concrete information related to these proceedings. The book itself, therefore, can be realised, or procedures can be conducted, we have laws that regulate it, so the Law on Land Books, the Law on the Crossing and Cataster of Real Estate, etc., therefore, is not disputed. What is the question,... this really exceeds the possibilities and framework of the BiH Law Department's action is the question, therefore, of regulation in general in terms of state property, i.e. the adoption of a Law on State Property which would regulate that question, therefore, belonging to certain entities, state, etc. So he doesn't deal with these questions. The D.A. did what was within his jurisdiction and what was, therefore, related to the specific requirements we had, so we conducted such procedures. Since... it wasn't, I didn't realize that we had a specific question in this part, I just mentioned maybe that it was really necessary for the State Property Act to be passed, that it was just one extremely important question because it was a matter of both Parliament and a particularly formed commission, etc. In relation to the question of fellow MPs concerning the de-expropriation process, therefore, it is not something which is a practical responsibility of the BiH Ombudsman, but the BiH Ombudsman is often involved in procedures and expropriation and de-expropriation when it comes, of course, to property or property interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The deexpropriation process is carried out at the request of the former owner, so in these situations that you mentioned, it means the expropriation itself goes on the grounds that a certain property is required to be excluded from its owner, the holder, is usually a citizen, in order to use this property in some broader social, general interests, so when we have the interests of that nature. If, in this sense, real estate is not used in this way, therefore, starting from these general interests which are characterized by this type of procedure or if the exception of real estate is not brought into force within the prescribed time-limits, then there are conditions for the return of that property to its former owner, i.e. to carry out 60 proceedings, to carry out the deexpropriation procedure. What is important is, therefore, that this deexpropriation process goes in a way that the former owner is required, and the services that led the expropriation process are generally municipal property and legal services, they also decide in deexpropriation procedures. BiH's defences show up there in those procedures when, therefore, something needs to be excluded from the state or if something needs to be excluded in favour of the state itself, so that part also protects that kind of interest. But we are, this I just want to confirm, therefore, familiar with a number of cases really where citizens are faced with a lot of problems. So, the entities to which this property is excluded, in those situations when all the conditions are met, to come to this reverse process for that property to return. But, therefore, it is again something that concerns the very first-degree bodies themselves, so the property-legal services that conduct the proceedings. Of course, we have competent services for geodetic property-legal affairs at the entity level which are also involved in the process in that second part when, therefore, certain complaints are decided, so the second-degree administrative procedure. Finally, there is also the possibility that certain implementations, i.e. protection of rights, are also carried out before courts, whether in regular court proceedings relating to infringements of the law in this part or in administrative proceedings which are followed, therefore, by these in administrative disputes, followed by first-degree and second-degree administrative proceedings. This would, therefore, be as far as I understood the question and how many touch points we have with the affairs and responsibilities of the Attorney General. Thank you. Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25213	What I understood was what you said was the necessary agreement, that is, some document that will help to register the property that once belonged to the former SFRY, that is correct, but you did not mention that there is a Law on Defence and that there is a Article 71 and 72. Defense law. Article 71, Article 73, excuse me, and 74, that is the Agreement on the transfer of property rights and the ban on the availability of property. So, the member talking about the property transfer agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina states that the defence ministry has been provided with a Plan on the final availability of assets from members of these. And after the BiH Council of Ministers approved the plan within 60 days, but not later than 31 December 2005. The defence ministry submits to the BiH Council of Ministers, the governments of Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH for the signing of an agreement, decisions, solutions and other relevant data if it is necessary to end all rights and obligations on movable and immovable property. So, that's all, the basis for the enrollment should come out of Article 73. A defense law that you don't mention. You have the same treatment for SFRY property that is now shared between the former members of that country and the relationship to this Defence Act where it is explicitly stated how the property is recorded. So, I think you guys should take a little bit of care, see, there's a lot of documents that talk in favor of that, but... The D.A. should deal with it and take a stand...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25214	Thank you. Damir Bećirović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25215	I'm glad we can ask, here, so I'd be interested in these international arbitrations that exist. So, we have these four key international arbitrations, I would particularly care about this part of Slovenia's Elektro-economics and the lawsuit against Bosnia and Herzegovina of nearly a billion and 400 million marks, which is where we stand, as we stand, whether there is any possibility, I don't know, agreement, anything, and especially this part, because we already have one power over the Štrabag against the Ministry of Communications and Transport, who's going to make up the budget damage, whether there are responsible persons in the Ministry, whether there's anything done, sent to someone, because you have damages recorded by the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget when it comes to, here, this verdict. So I'd really like to hear these four international arbitrations.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25216	Thank you. I don't know if it's actual, I mean, if you're not ready. _________(?) ... I can answer... [[no microphone turned on]] All right, all right. So we don't have any more applications for discussion. We're going to the 17th item of the agenda, Ad. 17. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-951/18, since 13/04.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25219	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Very briefly related to a very important, serious report on, I will say freely, the state of distribution, production and trade in electricity in the Bosnia and Herzegovina state. Knowing the competences of those who have submitted this Report and that in fact most of what is written here are only the data they have collected from some other competent institutions and companies that are each in charge of their part, so perhaps two minor remarks or suggestions on the rapporteurs. The first is about, as you have stated here, the progress towards the European path, that you have indicated to God what, all the demands we have regarding the Electricity Act,..., the distribution of electricity that we are obliged to do, and nowhere is mentioned, means, in this material. And the other thing is what I may have expected, and it's not presented here, is production, or production of electricity by some 62 producers in thermal power plants or hydroelectric power plants, because this data is very important to actually show us where our electricity potentials are right now, or what their reliability is, what the degree of exploitation is, and what actually the largest production can give. What's interesting and related now to... what you've just presented to us here in the material is that, from year to year, which is good, in Bosnia and Herzegovina is growing electricity consumption, definitely means, we have a lot more consumers since our population is getting smaller and smaller, generally, means that industry is using and using electricity more. However, what is very worrying is that production, i.e. production of electricity from year to year, is lower. You state here that the main reason for this is the hydrological situation, but here for five, four or five years a year it is so, it can no longer be considered a reason and should be aware that this is the most likely condition and remains, so, as some of our elders say should not interfere with God. Whether it's going to be any more or not, we need to be ready to produce at least enough electricity as much as we need. Also, one worrying fact is that electricity exports are lower than last year, but because imports are almost 118% higher than exports. And given this trend of increasing imports, reducing exports, by some estimates, means some next five years we'll be zero, and after five years if something significant doesn't happen, we'll become addicted to electricity imports, which is very worrying. I also found the data here, I've known him since before, that the price of electricity is growing on the market, meaning on these stock exchanges near Bosnia and Herzegovina, specifically on the Budapest Stock Exchange. And in that sense, it is very important to invest and restore the energy potential in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I haven't found you any information, it would be very good for parliamentarians, current facilities, power plants that have been installed for years, which years have been released into operation. They're plants that are older than me, and I'm a nice year old, so these are plants that have an extremely low level of exploitation, an ecology almost nothing. And what was done in Republika Srpska, and we have to say that it is,...a step in the Federation, that helmet, stands, waits, and it is high time given all these indicators that the Federation also takes that part of itself and its responsibility and starts to finally invest in the electricity sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25220	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25221	Thank you. I'd like to make two remarks actually to this material that you are, your report that you delivered. The first for which you are not directly responsible but when you have already entered the Report, it should be answered by someone from the first part of this session, meaning someone from the Council of Ministers, in point 2. – the composition and organisation of the work of the State Regulatory Commission, precise claims have been made on the expiry of the mandate of a member of the Commission... from Republika Srpska to whom the five-year term of office expired in 2016, if that is what I think. In 2017, the National Assembly appointed, or proposed a representative of Republika Srpska, the Council of Ministers has not yet confirmed. So it is obvious that the Council of Ministers will not confirm the proposal from Republika Srpska because this coalition, which is not, is. As they call themselves, they obviously will not propose what Republika Srpska has suggested. This is, therefore, the thing that stands unfinished and 63 is located in the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations which has the ambition to become what neither the Constitution nor the law allows. The other thing is on page 61. Reports where you wrote and brought again about the real competence of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, where it stands – Derk will in 2018 especially with the Commission for Transport and Communications of the House of Representatives and the Commission for Free and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications maintain this link and... interest will remain the exchange of information of key regulatory activities with the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in charge of policy-making under the Law on Transfer, Regulator and Operator of the Electricity System in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I remind you that the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity with its powers and responsibilities was established by the Law on Transfer, Regulator and Operator of the Electricity Transfer System in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it seems to me to be the Official Journal of 2002. And the Official List states that its function is to transfer electricity, operations, means transmission system and international electricity trade. Article 11 of the Law establishing the Independent Operator of Bosnia and Herzegovina's transmission system system and Article 10. The law establishing the power transmission company Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH are the owners of an independent system operator as well as the Elektroprenosa BiH. Everything else is in the jurisdiction of the entity. I ask you to keep those legal and constitutional provisions in mind when making your reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25222	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25223	I hope I will not be misunderstood but obviously it is about not knowing the constitutional provisions and completely disrespecting constitutional provisions when it comes to the functioning of our country of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We forgot that the Constitution defined the creation of public corporations, and if I should list them now, it was defined by our Constitution or Annex, and that, where electricity, transport is road, rail, ship, where telecommunications and systems, post office and so on. We obviously forgot it and did not establish it precisely because of the behaviour of the entities, both the Federation and the Republika Srpska. What's impossible is that it works partially with us seems to work so that nothing works. That's why we have traffic on the road, which is why we have in the railways that can't fuel tanks come, but only by truck transport, and so on and so forth. I'd pray that when we talk we have a bar... The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at least what is a commitment and what we have to do, and we won't because we have instructions to do and so we don't do anything. I hope that in the future it will be here to work without being done, not done without doing anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25224	Thank you. Discussion, Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, whenever you talk about the energy sector it's a very interesting question for many reasons. First of all, Bosnia and Herzegovina must define its needs and objectives when it comes to energy policy. We are a country that is a dominant producer of electricity but this year we were in a situation and that electricity is being imported. It is known that about 50 percent of electricity is produced, something perhaps even more, from the thermocenter, or that coal is used. However, that is the problem, even if it comes into place and can be exported or exported, that electricity will come at a time when we will be banned from respecting ecological standards. This same electricity that will not be able to go into export will not be used in electromobiles either because those vehicles that use that electricity and which are not produced by environmental standards can not be used in public transport either because it pollutes the environment by producing that coal energy and that coal, as I would say, in a very wide range of quality, from that coal that has the necessary production characteristics while respecting the organic production standards, the necessary quality to those coals that do not really have it. Thus, it is an extremely broad and open issue and a very sensitive issue. I'm a representative of the idea of energy diversification, I think this country has a great advantage of using all sorts of conventional energy sources as well as those renewable energy sources. And here we are really making very, very strict steps, and even I would say we are going too slowly in relation to the region, to the environment, and not to talk rhyme about the European Union where, for example, one Germany in one day did a test, 80 percent of the need for electricity came from renewable energy sources. It's something that must be a permanent commitment to us too. Of course, here is a sensitive issue, because as soon as it starts talking about it, we are asking what to do with those who are employed in mines that become a burden, they have a problem, uncertainty and fear of what happens when the energy sector is at stake. So that's where the state measures come in, the incentives, the social protection, the reorientation, the transformation, the work on some other things, here's even to say in the energy sector. Of course, here on page 61, there's talk of aki, so they mention Aki, here, let's say in gas. One who knows the problem of gas in Bosnia and Herzegovina knows that it is a completely unsettled area and that these policies are guided by the diamateral opposite, even strategic definitions, directions that are placed on paper or in the Federation or in the entity of Republika Srpska, i.e. in an attempt to do a state strategy that is so simple, there are so many differences that we do not even know where our connections will be on the waters that will go, past Bosnia and Herzegovina, because none of these large gas suppliers who will go to, say, LNG terminals that will be in Croatia or who will come from the Middle East or coming from Africa, or even from Algeria, simply Bosnia and Herzegovina is a country that does not have a clearly defined strategy. And that's a problem for the future, so no one's going to wait for us to define ourselves and determine what we want and how, whether we're going to be part of an international network of energy transports or just be the thing that we're going to go into the debate unconscious and simply not reach a solution. So far, we have lost millions because of our failure to fulfil our obligations to the Energy Community, and that is completely irrelevant to us, and we need them extremely, every fening we need, every brand we need is necessary to us, not to talk about millions. Of course, I think it's not the State Regulatory Agency that's responsible for this because, as I would say, it's politics regardless of what it needs to be someone who intervenes and directs the situation on the Bosnia and Herzegovina market. I am therefore, uh, of course, satisfied with this report that has been made quality, but I wanted to give, as I would say, to all of us some of the things that concern me, which I am concerned about, and I think all those who understand this problem are also concerned and that there would really have to be a lot more political will to resolve this issue. 65 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25226	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25227	My esteemed colleague, Đonlagić. Again, I call on constitutional provisions, and I would like Mr. Đonlagić to hear this, but I see he will not hear, I am sorry, the Constitution of BiH has defined that all the regulations that are not in the parliamentary procedure adopted as new values are those regulations from a space called the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's right, that's right, don't laugh at anything like that, that's right, read the Constitution if you don't know it, and I'd ask you to stop throwing.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25229	I beg you for peace.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25230	Bosnia and Herzegovina was the republic that had the strictest regulations in the area of gas, the only republic in the former Yugoslavia that was a full legislative legislation based on... regulations had been introduced into its legislation. If you don't know what the... regulations are, they're the regulations of the state that has the strictest control when it comes to gas and gas use, it's the Holandija. In 1980, a group of engineers who translated and translated full regulations into Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina's laws were formed. That's why it's not true that we don't have any, it's true that we don't use them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25231	Thank you. I'm closing the argument on the 17th point. Moving to point 18, Ad. 18. Information on the implementation of the emergency plan and the implementation of the activities listed in the Information on the evaluations and possibilities of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the issue of the refugee crisis in the region and the European Union and the review of the situation in relation to the Western Balkan route, the Council of Ministers' material, No 01,02,03-04-741/18, since 14/03/2018 The House College has been designated by the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of BiH and the Joint Commission for Human Rights as responsible for the discussion. The Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH delivered its opinion on 05.04.2018. Information has been received. I'm opening a debate. First debater, MP Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25233	I'm sorry, I may be reporting more often today than usual, but I'm looking for a half an hour break. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25234	Don't take a break now, Mirsade. It doesn't make sense. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25235	... According to the Rules of Procedure... [[no microphone turned on]] SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25236	...right but right to tell you it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25237	I'm asking you to follow SBB's request.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25238	Half an hour's break. So we move on at 4:00. [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. Ambassador Nikola Špirić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25240	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed guests. So we can discuss it, I just want to be explained what material we're discussing today. But what happens to us, if the College allows itself the Council of Ministers to do what it does, it would be good if you didn't do what you did to us Parliamentarians. I have the material from March of the month, if it's the material we're discussing, and there's material since 11.05.2018. So, are we going to discuss the material from March or the latest material that the Council of Ministers has devoted to this, the migrant crisis is not, is not a crisis that requires this behavior for us in Parliament, especially not the Council of Ministers. So there's no one here from the Council of Ministers, so this is the information we have since March, and I have information from 11.05. According to my assessment, none of the information will solve anything. But I'd like to know why we're discussing information from March and not the latest information. _________(?) 67 [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, what is actually happening, people, is this definitely some destruction, intent, I cannot believe that you are offering us material from March and that we have the latest information under the heading – a proposal for information with a proposal for measures to be taken urgently with a focus on illegal migrants and border transit, primarily with eastern neighbours of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So this is the material that has, how many pages, about 30, 40 pages. __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25244	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25245	I need my fellow Špirić to make a correction. The material that we have, which, which says it was 14/03, was the third month of 2017, so Minister Mektić ripped off that first page, so he only wrote a new accompanying act that now refers to 14/03/2018 and we are discussing on the basis of the elements relating to 2016. And if we add this to it that this left-hand side is completely empty, I don't know, we don't have anything to do with it, we don't have anyone. I'm asking you to see if there's any point in this serious topic in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25246	Thank you. Discussion, Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25247	I said in setting up the agenda that it would be best if we really disband ourselves until the election, because here is the item of the agenda that should be monitored with the presence of the Council of Ministers, including the Ministers, shows that we can and do not have to come, we can and we do not have to talk, we can and we do not have to make any decisions, conclusions and anything, because it is neither heard by anyone in the Council of Ministers, nor on any basis of what is binding. When you go through all that has been done so far, when you go through the conclusions and decisions you will see and you will realize that it doesn't matter at all what we have concluded and what decisions we have made. This crisis is migrant and can be a great danger to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we have no one to talk to on this subject today, given that there are no those who should implement anything that this Parliament brings, including a simple conclusion. If you have in mind that there are millions of refugees from Syria somewhere in Turkey, and if you have a situation that European borders are quite closed after 2015 and those major migrant crises, then you can see that the Balkan area is a place where a multi-thousand arrival of migrants can possibly take place in this area of the Balkans, thus also in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Whether we are or are not ready for that or not, there is no one to answer these questions today or any question that we can possibly ask here. And the information, here's the one that Nikola, Mr. Špirić, examined, says we have some kind of confusion. So, according to all the important issues this country has from the accumulation of this fuel to the migrant crisis and everything, so today, what we've had today is taking down the agenda item of the European Commission's report, I don't know why we're even needed, why, what we're in charge, what we do, why we're doing. So, that's a series of questions that, I don't know who I'd ask, I can't ask you, uh, because you're either president or speaker or whatever you want, because I don't know how much they inform you on this party line, so maybe you know more so you're not afraid of these crises, but I'd really like to know what time we live in when this problem is. Because as a country, that's what someone has already said, we must be, to provide a relationship with people who flee the war of the affected countries as they do, how we are bound by the international agreements we have signed, but we must also be aware that in thousands of people there can be found who can make a problem in the country in any way. And if we don't discuss this House today and if you don't have any ministers, except for the distinguished Mrs. Borovac, then... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, of course, but I think all of this is what we're doing, which we're talking about very irresponsiblely, unseriously, and that only fairies can carry us and dear Bog keep us from possibly having a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25249	Thank you. So, just to inform you that there's an assistant minister here from the Ministry of Security as someone who's authorized to discuss this subject, but obviously time has passed as far as this information is concerned, she's out of date and we need to discuss how we're going to deal with it. We'll continue the work, will you take your word for it now or yes? __________(?) 69 [[no microphone turned on]] Nikola you will, Nikola... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25251	Well, that's right, so the question is can we talk so that someone can empower someone here to be an interpreter, and he's not a minister or a deputy? On the other hand, this material, everything is said about it, I have nothing special to add, which we have. On the third hand, I have so much information that I don't even know how to bring them here, how to get to the border, who's watching her, who's letting them, who's letting people, is that just a humanitarian question, where they're going to put them, is there any control over it, isn't there? So I would suggest that we stop this today and suggest the conclusions as follows: 1. The discussion and clarification on the Information on the implementation of the emergency plan and the implementation of the activities listed in the Information on the evaluations and possibilities of Bosnia and Herzegovina and on the issue of the refugee crisis in the European Union region and the review of the situation in connection with the migration crisis on the Western Balkan route, the Council of Ministers' material, the number and that, due to the limitations of the information itself relating to a very important topic, which is security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Council of Ministers with making up complete and up-to-date information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina by the next session of the House of Representatives in the context of an enhanced migrant crisis, which is the end of this month. So, I suggest that these two conclusions be adopted and that... I think what we're going to discuss now, we can all hear what he's heard somewhere, I don't know. Here, if you agree with this.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25252	I think this is a perfectly logical proposal and here's the College's proposal to now vote on the proposal for this conclusion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Damir Arnaut's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25254	Thank you very much. I know, I've seen it try to avoid what I'm about to point out, but you can't just go around things. Article 181(2) – Ministers may be deputy ministers and if the presence concerns committees of ministerial assistants. So don't make a farce out of this 70 Home that you can even consider the possibility that the assistant minister is going out for that pay phone and talking to the MPs, that never happened in this...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25255	I don't know what kind of farce you're talking about, but I've met you that there's an assistant present.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25256	There are no ministers and no deputies, you are the chairman of the presidency, and not that I, as an MP, find that a member of the 181st position (2) has been injured. So, we don't have a minister and a deputy here, this isn't a committee session, but a House session and an assistant minister can't even represent the Council of Ministers' position, and he can't particularly address this House. We're on the committee yesterday, I'm going to talk about it at the next two points, we've had an attempt to get the head of the department to talk about issues that are so important that it was even necessary for the minister himself to come to the commission and explain it, but he sent it to the head of the department, so he didn't send either an assistant or an assistant minister. And here we are, so now we're going into one, into one practice where there's a finding, here's saying we have, we don't have an author, we don't have a minister or a deputy. The Minister's assistant can't represent anyone in the House, and it can't be questioned that an assistant minister can come out here and talk to us. There's a reason why it's so in the Rules of Procedure. I insist that this enters the minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25257	It's all in the record. So I would like to put on the vote by Mr Lovrinović, who essentially postpones the debate on this point until the next session and asks the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Security to give for that session updated... _________(?) Mladen [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25258	Stop right there. Mladen
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25259	and current... SECHIFIC The relevant Joint Committee on Human Rights delivered its opinion on 24 April 2018, the Information was received and the Peace Platform was adopted, and it was recommended for the homes to adopt the Peace Platform. I'm opening a debate. MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25261	Well, we received an unusual document with which most people probably don't know what to do and to classify it with. So we have a document that, on 20.06.2017, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees sent to the Parliamentary Assembly, to us in the Parliamentary Assembly on 11.07. We have a report, i.e. the Commission's opinion, which is the first of 23.10.2017, in which the Commission has considered the Information on the PRO-Future and Peace Platforms and received knowledge, and informed the colleges of both homes. And then we have after 19.03 and 16.04.2018 in which the Joint Commission reconsidered and unanimously adopted the text of the Peace Platform for the implementation of activities, etc. So we have a two-time review by the Commission within half a year. Now it's... what are the questions – what did this even come up here? The project began in 2013, in 2013, it was implemented by local communities with the Mozaik Foundation, Karitas, the Tuzla Citizens' Forum, the Helsinki Parliament of the citizens of Banja Luka and the Interreligious Council and do so, signed 60 commissioners. What's going to happen from 2013 to 2018 now is that we are now adopting this document to the Peace Platform. They say it's going well. What makes it necessary for someone to put this document on the House of Representatives after five years? I don't see the need, the project assessed as good, it's small amounts of symbolic funds, it's implemented by NGOs who got money for it, USAID stands as a support, what does the BiH Parliamentary Assembly have to adopt? That's what the local communities adopted and worked on. Why, I couldn't get here, I couldn't get, uh, neither did the minister's answer specifically – why are we talking about this now and what does it even mean if we adopt it now or not? I'd really like to get an answer to some of these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25262	Thank you. Ambassador Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25263	Thank you. So, something similar I would suggest, the most I could do is take this to the knowledge, but I wouldn't want to, of course, because there are so many things to discuss here, but if I knew the purpose of this document, as my colleague said. So you have on the Peace Platform page, so where it starts, so the fourth, say, section or paragraph, as you call it, says – concerned about the supremacy of opposing cultural narratives and exploiting differences and historical suffering. So, the supremacy of opposing cultural narratives, what does that mean? So some of the gifts that exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina like this put rhogobatically in the text I cannot accept. Next, with concern, observing the lack of alternative and neutral interpretations of history. So there are no alternative and neutral, there are truths in history. There's no neutral, so what does that mean, how does 72 like it, what? But of course we have problems. Furthermore – regretting the lack of education on peace in a divided education system. Now, of course, we could open up here a debate about this whole word "divided" or that's it or it's the education system that it is, and someone thinks it's divided, someone thinks it's constitutional law, someone. So, I simply find these qualifications unacceptable and I won't support it unless this comes back, so something on the trail of today's debate is correct, and to show us some kind of a position, maybe this is some kind of attitude, is that, as we bring various declarations like Parliament and according to some questions, which may be in this case, but this is how I can't accept this, and I suggest that this also be taken off, that we don't plead this out, but at best come back to think a little bit about the content of this text that we're offered as a Peace Platform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25264	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Wait a minute, the Minister of Word called, maybe we'd better hear from her so we can continue the discussion or you want the ministers at the end of the discussion. SAMIHA
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25265	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25266	Here's the end. Here you go, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25267	Thank you very much. I was going to suggest that the minister explain the objectives, which means what it was for, since we have questions here why this came to Parliament, and I wonder what the aim of this is to put on Parliament. If the goal is for us parliamentarians to stand behind this project, I guess that's the goal, to be in that group we're signed down there, and now to continue to that, from that regular number to where it came from, then that means that now we're going to open the debate, the one that my colleague Lovrinović was talking about, the essence of the declaration, and obviously we can't because these already signed the text that we got down there. Which would mean that we would then have some other declaration that we would now, change this one, and we would sign, which of course wasn't the Ministry's goal, which is why I wanted the first minister to say what was the goal of what was here at all. If the goal is to get to know this, then it's both legal and legitimate for us to get to know this platform and we're going to take it to the knowledge and get to know it, that's it. I don't see what else it could have been, but here's what I'd ask the Minister to say is, what's the point of today being on the agenda? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25268	Thank you. Ambassador Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25269	I expected, however, that given the time we are in and the way it communicates and the vocabulary used in this country, we would make an effort to make this information, rather say, read and interpret slightly differently. We are in a very volatile time and space that has never stopped boiling, a place where we have precisely because of the political vocabulary and political attitudes and the relationship of leaving this country those who are its future, these are young people. We don't go to our grandparents, we go to young and educated people, even those who aren't educated can't leave, but they're taking away our brain mass, gray mass. In 99% of cases, and I've talked to a lot of people, just because of what I just said, people are leaving because it's more important to us than the community, because, and so on and so forth, we're creating such a charge with young people that they're afraid to stay in these areas. It's not just economic addiction anymore, even at least economic addiction, it's even the least imperceptible. This inner fear that exists in young people is enormous and we as a conscious people at the very least could say – okay, let us know, let it be done, that is, if it needs to be strengthened. This space of the damned Balkans at last and this heart of ours, called Bosnia and Herzegovina, is something we should be growing with our heart. That is why we should support these people who have the courage to say – we will go out with this, and we too will be the ones who will stand behind them, because only peace, only mutual understanding, only respect for diversity, only mutual respect will give prosperity in these areas. As long as we have what we've got, we've got the hand brake up and we're driving the car under the hand until our brakes light up. Let's not let our brakes get on, let's not do that. Let's not be historically recorded as someone who hasn't made an effort to create peace, lethargy, calmness, bona fide in these areas. I can agree with anything, but I can't agree, let's just say, I didn't want to take the line, Mr. Lovrinović and I agree with you, it's historic only true, but the problem is that we have three, even more, is a big problem and that no one will ever give up on their truth. But I guess there will be those who will explore the events in these areas, I guess the ulari will be removed from the horse’s eyes, not only looking straight, but being able to see both left and right and make the right conclusion. As far as I'm concerned, I'm just saying that we need this kind of initiative as much as possible and as supportive as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25270	Thank you. Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25271	I didn't mean to answer, and I hope that I'm not, uh, reporting for reasons why I don't think there's anyone in this room that's any alternative to peace and reconciliation in Bosnia and Herzegovina that's why I think that's more important than anything we say that's of interest, so we'll best keep both the Republic of Serbia and each individual environment and build Bosnia and Herzegovina in which we'll all be equal. So this is about a platform implemented by the NGO sector, where more than 60 municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina signed. I listened to those people a moment ago, I wanted to, and I said it a little sooner, it was much easier to operate on the injured heart and to keep the wounded in the war alive than I heard the confession of the people of all the nations... It's traumatic, tragic with inexplicable consequences. The past cannot change, with the future as elected public officials, we, NGOs, media, educational institutions, representatives of religious communities, and each living must do much 74 more than is the interest of all of us. If you looked at a hair in an egg, you could make any comment. Is it perfect? It's not. Is this platform genuine? No, they didn't even work it, probably, people who were experts in that sense. Is it good? Yes, it is, we from the most legislative institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina should always send messages. I'm a thousand years from now talking about what we agree on, not a single second that would make it worse... I also know when others say that no one is in that sense, but what costs us support as elected officials is something that absolutely shouldn't be brought in. But I allow people to think they shouldn't support it, and I won't be mad at anyone, if you ask me independently of any attitude I'm for it and I'll vote for it at any cost. I've been watching all sorts of tragedies, listening to those people down there, and I've been looking at those pictures taken, they're binding us, we have to cut us down and do everything in common that's going to make everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina okay. Now, that is, that is my opinion right now, that someone may like it or not like it, but more importantly, if I don't experience psychic trauma that I think verbally I can say, I support you to pat you down, we can't, I need to tell you right now, the education system is worrying in this country. In this country, this exhibition should go to every place, not to talk about what anyone has done to whom, but to never do anything to anyone again.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25272	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25273	I thank the chairman. Here I fully agree with my colleague, Prodanović, and I was just at the exhibition, at the presentation of the Platform, that is, on a public confession of former campers from all three nations and from national minorities and members of others, who shared with us what they had experienced during the war. However, what my colleague Lovrinović and Mrs. Majkić pointed out in their address is not really clear to me why the problem is now being created about the text or content of this Platform, which was addressed to us by the Ministry of Human Rights, which the Council of Ministers considered and directed further, and here is my colleague Lovrinović and Mrs. Majkić when we look at who the signatories are, therefore, from the local communities, they are mainly the chiefs of your parties, so I am now livingly interested in how that Mr. Lovrinović would have some remarks on the very text of the law, while some of his party colleagues, who are at the local level, did not have any objections until they gave their consent. On the other hand, Mrs. Majkić, when you're talking about why we're dealing with this platform here or why it's on the agenda at all, I could also ask the question when we come to a variety of documents that cost all of us, so the citizens and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we're in credit debt, and some of the credit funds go to Bog knows which, as the most legislative body, which gave us the consent to be in charge, we never have the feedback whether these funds really were realised in what was proposed to us in that course, or why we all voted, yes or not, now irrelevant. So we have no feedback. I'm trying to tell you, I'm pulling a parallel where it doesn't cost you anything today, so none of this costs anything in terms of material, and it gives a lot. You give one hope to the most legislative body and all of us as elected by the citizens and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are for peace and stability. If you had just been a participant of this, I believe that you would not have remained indifferent, where people who have 75 lived through the horrors, so it is nice to sit here in these parliamentary benches and complain about back pains, and imagine someone who has been in a camp and lived through everything and now expects you or us who have never experienced anything to support them, or wind in the back, just like your colleague Lazar Prodanović said, for something that never happens again. So, in general, I'm surprised that we are leading the controversy in the 21st century at all about this, the controversy when Bosnia and Herzegovina is allegedly determined to go towards the European Union. Of course, I'm not surprised which party comes with exceptions, of course, some of the members, because these parties are those who call for war, who rattle arms, while here we have, let's say, had the public speaking of surviving campers, the victims of war, who invite all of us to direct one note where we are for peace, where we are for stability, that Bosnia and Herzegovina be countries of sustainable development, peace and stability, and you are now questioning the text of the law itself, so that I absolutely do not understand this. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] These platforms.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25275	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25276	So, Mr. Backović, Mrs. Maji and Mr. Prodanović. Mrs. Maja has her perception of this document the way she put it, so she's going through it that way, but she doesn't need to blame others. So, in peace, we need to work far more than the Platform itself and this document. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25277	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25278	Well, yeah, you've said a lot of things just haven't heard yourself. So, the platform of course won't solve this, it's an act of some will, but this is a political act, if you look at the signatories, so it's a political act. I don't know what the act is, this isn't an act, I don't know, some booklet or something, you see from the signatories and that, and if we stand behind it, it's actually a political act. Although I have said, for example, that people in this political act are clearly expressing some political views, he says concerned about the supremacy of the opposing... narratives. If I say we should cast out the supremacy and the opposing... narratives and leave concerned about exploiting differences and historical suffering that contributed to intolerance and violence in Bosnia and Herzegovina wine, then that's acceptable to me. If someone's talking about supremacy, what does that mean, someone's making a political point about something, that I'm not going into an academic debate here. If he says that with concern, looking at the lack of alternative interpretations of history, if he says it should be evicted and that it remains only an interpretation of history and a lack of strong democratic and participatory political culture, then it is a clearer sentence if I stand behind it as a representative. So this is a political act in which certain views are based on political views, those who signed this, I see it that way. If not, if this act is such a yes, that's why I said I could receive this information to 76 know that people did it, that something, uh, encouraged them to join me in a way that I perceive, but if I'm going to bring this as a representative and stand behind this, then I can't accept some of these qualifications that I listed in part of this text. In other parts, I haven't touched, so I said or, we'll postpone the plea, so some of this is fixed, if we can, what Mr. Novaković said, if people have signed 30 now, then we should agree to what we're saying here, if that's impossible, so let's see what we're going to do with this act. It's no one against either...
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25279	Thank you. Correction of the false quote, Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25280	Well, not getting into the content of the document we're discussing right now, I'm saying, uh, somehow we're getting too big of a word dragged into today's story, I just want to correct one false allegation. My kolegica, Gasal-Vražalica, mentioned the parties that are rattling with weapons in the context, among other things, here, I will just focus on my colleague Lovrinović, who, I have connected to, is one of the parties who, in this context, rattles with weapons and the party from which I and my colleague Lovrinović come. I'm going to remind my colleague, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, that one of the last arms-wrestlings in this country, and there were, and we warned them, and we're going to warn that there was a turn of machine guns to the south of your party's president.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25281	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25282	I really didn't say a single word that would put me in a position for my colleague, Gasal, to say anything at all about SNSD or myself. So, I asked why the document that was made and signed with local communities in 2013 and it meets..., without a problem is fulfilled, why it is here. Are we finishing now, is it finished some, Nicks... some area completed so here's the good results so now Parliament needs to get to know each other. Why five years after me. ...and the commission went to all this trouble because she didn't know what to do, so one day she took it to the knowledge, and then someone was probably coming back to her, because for a year there was a document going on between the Ministry and the College. So it's not just me who's confused with this, it's everyone who says they're confused with this. No, there's no need for us to adopt every document. Why local communities aren't enough for themselves, I trust these people who are signed to have a reason why they are but I can't because I wasn't involved in any way or saw the way in which, what the hell is the point of it, what they get by it, what they wouldn't get if it wasn't... So, as the commissioners signed, it means that they need me and I'm not questioning them, and if I were involved, then I'd put in some remarks, so I wouldn't use the termology of the NGO, but rather do it as it would suit Parliament. So, it's the only thing I've been having trouble with.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25283	Okay. I give my word to Minister Borovac that we try to channel the discussion a little bit. Here you go. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25284	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the House of Representatives. I really want to say that, here, first of all, I would like to answer some of the questions asked by the honourable Member of the Majkić. So, in the very information on a project called PRO - The future said that this project started in 2013 and that it was a four-year project that was completed in 2017. As a result, the project was not created or completed in 2013, but started the project in 2013 and its length was four years. So in these four years, this project includes, in addition to local communities, a large number of NGOs, young people, youth associations, academic communities, etc., perhaps one of the fastest organised forums for the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina and what the young world, people, the academic community, thinks about what the priority is in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As a result of the project, one platform is expected to be brought to all levels of government, so this platform is the result of the project itself and the project as such in 2017, a document called the Peace Platform. He is the result, therefore, of everything that came as an analysis, as a feeling of those with whom we were working and of what worries our people in Bosnia and Herzegovina who can be taken as a common position by all constituent peoples, other citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so one broad platform of action. With that intention, such a platform was first signed by local community chiefs because the project itself and the idea was to start from them precisely messages of peace, stability, security, co-existence in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, as such, as such, it has signed, here, to this day, 70 leaders in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And what the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina want, regardless of the belongings of anyone, is peace, security and stability. What we expected, and when we proposed to the Council of Ministers, is that all levels of government send such a single message to build peace and stability and to this Bosnia and Herzegovina as a basis for each further, every further prosperity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Proposing this material after all, he passed one, to say the procedure of the project itself and the objectives of the project, which included the Advisory Committee, which included representatives of this House and the House of Nations as representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly and actors and participants in this project, I was proud to suggest that this one platform be proposed that the Council of Ministers be adopted as an act and a message to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that peace and security comes from all levels of government and that all levels of government participate and can guarantee the citizens for the peace and stability that they expect to hear from all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, accounts, means, on the support and Parliament through the Advisory Committee and what I have presented to the Council of Ministers and to you today is one message which, this platform is a message that this Parliament would send to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of their nationality, that we are both executive and legislative authority,... executive it is, and also legislative there, that we are for peace, security and what hurts our people most, and that is to live in peace and stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina so that we can continue to build and live in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25285	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25286	I really don't want to go into conflict, the least I want is that. Thank you for explaining the minzit, you've helped me. We have to be aware, Nikola to me, I really understand you, historical, historical or historical facts, we're participants in it, and we're telling my truth, I'm saying my truth, you're saying yours is true, my colleague Bojić says my truth, we have this problem. And someone will have to sit down and do something like Malcolm, who will write the history of these spaces unburdened with me or with you or with Bojić, who will write from some neutral angle what we all lived through. We've got to start looking at things like that or we'll have the tribal performances of our... leaders again. I'd like you to read the comments, if you speak the languages I'll pass on to you, as they observe outside our call leadership or leadership. You even have articles in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands, the UK, the lists, Italy, Spain, where tribal leaders say. It's hard on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25287	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25288	Well, I didn't know what to push so I could say what I wanted to say since I was discussing it, and we don't have the possibility of someone else right now. So, after the clarification of the respected minister, the goal is much clearer to me, so the bottom line is that some project has been since then and that the idea of those who led this project to adopt the Platform at all levels. So that's the point, it's nothing else. And I want to join all those who are ready for this Platform, so I am ready, too, as well as fellow Prodanović and other colleagues to support this Platform as an expression, as an expression of the will of this Parliament, means that problems are solved differently than before.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25289	Thank you. Correction of the false quote, Maja Gasal-Vražaica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25290	It is not clear to me when my colleague Kožul wants to replicate to me why he mentions then President Željko Komšić, and I guess that's how he wants to replicate to me. I really don't get it, and since he mentioned it, I don't know what machine gun he's talking about. If you think he was involved in the war, yes, he was involved in the war and was an active participant in the defense of the war, even the Golden Lily. And while, you know, the president of the party from which I came defended Bosnia and Herzegovina's president of the party from which you came was sending her to forced labor.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25291	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25292	Thank you, Chairman. I'll try to separate the question of project and phenomenon. It says here in the Information on the project PRO-Future and Peace Platform that PRO-Future is a four-year project of the US humanitarian organisation CRS which began in September 2013 and which is mostly funded by the USAID. So this is, let me if I'm wrong, an international project. It is true that the project has been implemented in collaboration with 60 local communities where there are paraphrases of local commissioners to support this story about phenomena, which is that everyone has expressed their willingness to work permanently on peace and stability in these areas. It says – the main purpose of the project is to build trust among citizens of all ethnic groups in Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to be ready to advocate social change. We are witnessing the fact that the project has been going on since 2013, so to this day I am sure that we have witnessed that no local community in Bosnia and Herzegovina has promoted instability, conflict, war. I don't think it's in either one, but the need for peace, stability, tolerance, inter-religious co-operation, etc. has been affirmed. Therefore, it is quite visible here that for the first time in the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are trying to impose the talk that Parliament, here it is already, as I saw in the Council of Ministers, we are saying about an international project. Why? How many international projects do we have today in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Are we going to verify every international project here by making our statement? Don't let us replace the thesis, when it comes to the latest wars, or some other wars, I think we're all here as one - peace, stability, never repeat war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there's no suffering, there's no hatred, but please don't force us as a story that it's necessary for the BiH Parliament to declare an international project that stands here, I read again, the Information on the project, is a four-year project of the American humanitarian organisation. So it's not a project of domestic institutions, it's not a project of domestic institutions, or all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And why today would this project be declared by Parliament, I am talking about the project, if there were no deviations in the past period and if there were no forces that affirmed different kinds of negative phenomena in this country? That's what we want to talk about. So that's why Mrs. Majkić's discussion was in that context, she was talking about the project, Mr. Prodanović was talking about phenomena. And it's completely legitimate and completely clear. I'm asking you, Mr. Chairman, to give a half-a-half a break on behalf of the SNSD Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25293	Thank you. Half an hour's break. [[PAUZA]] We're moving on with the session. Correction of a false allegation, Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25295	Well, I hate to report that I'm still saying to my colleague, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, we don't need to take these, uh, reactions personally. I did not implicate my colleague, but I corrected a false allegation that she said, and it is a very bad allegation that the party of my colleagues, Lovrinović, and thus mine, rattles with weapons. In fact, we don't rat on guns, we're afraid of gun-stuttering, we're warning about gun-stuttering... more or less, so I'm going to quote what I said, if the gun-smacking, I'm not when it's said and you're turning a machine gun, from a reporter down there, according to what 80 is done in Mostar, it's a gun-smacking. And when we talk about peace here, one document that often refers to peace in which peace is often mentioned, and the first prerequisite for peace in this country is to unsnare itself with weapons. And that's why it was my correction to the wrong assumption. I hope I make myself perfectly clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25296	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25297	I am correcting the wrong quote of my colleagues as he understands it, and so it has been expressed that this is an international project, but I interpret this project in a way that may have been initiated by an international organisation and that it has been funded by an international organisation but this is a project that has been implemented through local communities and NGOs in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because the very fact that more than 60 municipal commissioners participated in this project tells us that it is still a project of local communities, NGOs and all those participants who went through the project and came to this document that wants to send a very strong and symbolic message of peace, a message of co-existence, tolerance, security and I think that in such a way we need to understand and give our support to this expression of commitment to peace, security, tolerance, co-existence and building a better society in the sense of building an environment just described by this Peace Platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25298	Thank you. It's an extermination of the wrong quote, Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25299	Thank you, Chairman. Act 010737122974/16 of 29.05.'17. Information on the project PRO-Future and Peace Platform provided by the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees stands – PRO-The future is a four-year project of the US humanitarian organisation CRS. Excuse me, I'm not talking about the content of the platform, I'm talking about the project. And let me ask you something, those who've been doing projects, and I appreciate that there's... when a report is submitted to the donor, we have a narrative and financial report, why we don't have a financial report. Why would the House of Representatives even discuss a single project, I'm talking about a project now I'm not talking about content here? We do not have a problem with the SNSD to support every appeal and every project when it comes to peace and stability in these areas but to do so by domestic institutions, and there is an institution in this country, many institutions dealing with human rights, which deal with many other rights in the interests of the freedom of all citizens, there are civil organisations dealing with this issue, but that the BiH Parliament adopts the programme of an American organisation, do not expect us to. In particular, once again I want to say, the truth is that they were local partners, initialled by the mayors of municipalities, the verification of the Platform did not go through 60 local communities, or local congregations. The Council of Ministers has hurried to verify, the Council of Ministers has delivered, we have the right to talk about that BiH Parliament does not need to adopt American 81 projects, and on content, of course, the SNSD will provide support every time it is, I said once again, affirmation of peace, stability and all other rights and freedoms of all citizens and peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it is an act adopted by the competent institutions in this country, in partnership with civil organisations or I don't know what more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25300	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25301	Well, then we have to, excuse me, there's something off here, we have to read consistently what's contained in this document, my monitor's off, so I'm gonna have to use my colleagues. The project is being implemented in collaboration with local partners Mozaik Foundation, Caritas BiH, the Tuzla Citizens' Forum, the Helsinki Parliament of citizens of Banja Luka and the Interreligious Council in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So these are the partners of this project, not an international project partner organisation, they may have initiated and funded but the whole project is led by partnerships between local communities, municipalities and partners that are listed. And I don't believe that an international organisation will be a signator of this Peace Platform because the content of the Platform is based on the project activities that have been led in the cooperation of these partners involved in the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25302	Thank you. Borislav Bojić, discussion. It's Ovoltie.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25303	Ladies and gentlemen. I'll do it very briefly. So, this kind of platform on the Commission itself usually supports you and I think that every kind of verbal message that comes from any, from any level of government, it was a municipality, a city, an entity, a district, whatever it is, and it says that in this country, first of all, there is a commitment to a common commitment to peace. I'm in the contents of j, there may be an observation in it that eventually some sentence is not conceived in one way or another, I don't want to slow it down, but I want... just one sentence, and I said that by listening to those who are victims of a tragic conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am aware of the facts, and after what I heard down here in the hall today, the war began, I am fully convinced, those who know each other well and who sat in the chairs together, they started the war, and those who don't know each other died. And it showed up today when you talk to these people who come from different... peoples, from different places, etc. I'm totally convinced of this, someone said it, someone smarter than me, believe me, I didn't make it up, I don't know somewhere I came across such a sentence, and I'm absolutely convinced that the conflicts in these areas started by those who knew each other well, and those who didn't know each other at all, and those victims are now in Bosnia and Herzegovina speaking publicly about the consequences of the tragic conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Wherever a message for peace is sent, I think it should be supported, even if there are some shortcomings, we'll ask them to get better. Well, after all, this is financed by an international organisation, it is true from Washington has been funded, so 82 could finance other countries, no one has defended Turkey or Russia or anyone else to come and offer a kind of project that will finance Bosnia and Herzegovina. Whoever funds the project, I think it is something useful, such a message, will not enter the content we are discussing in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they will hear a message that the Peace Platform is supported in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what they'll hear, they'll hear the title. Well, people read the press, watch the news, etc. Look at what the residents are looking at, they're just looking at the title, they're not reading the contents. There may be errors in this content, I'm not saying there aren't any, that maybe we can fix them, maybe we can get them to be far better and more acceptable to everyone. Here is an important message that will be sent, it's more important than what could possibly be if there are some shortcomings in content itself. So the title will be, uh, the message. Now take the journalist who will send news from the Parlamentary Assembly – the Parliamentary Assembly supported the Peace Platform. What's wrong with that? No one will go further to explain whether it's a written historical fact that she or she is, but it's important which message we send. What do we do as the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in terms of lawmaking or any other obligation arising from this Platform? I don't see her, someone might see her, if she sees her, let her tell me who it is. In my opinion, it is my only obligation to send a message, and those who have felt the consequences of the war on their backs make sure that, regardless of who they are, where they come from and where they come from, they will always support that kind of message called the Peace Platform. That's the attitude I wanted to express, and I will support, therefore, and receive knowledge of this Peace Platform and support every activity that's going in this direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25304	Thank you. Discussion, Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25305	The Honorable Chairman. I won't be long either, I think... it should, what my colleague Bojić said,...that kind of message and I think it is the basic purpose of this entire platform to leave this parliament of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to support the Peace Platform. What's the alternative not to supporting? Some other platform, as it is called, I don't think we need another platform. If she's in somebody's head here, that other platform, and it's not called the Peace Platform, then we have a problem. And those people who opted to tell their story so it wouldn't happen again, I looked down and listened, won't stop saying it whether I voted or not. We can't stop them, especially if we don't support this, then we're insecure, then we don't even know if we want peace. But here, due to limited time, for me personally there are Muslims here and in this House, there is a iftar tonight I will shorten my discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25306	Thank you. Diana Zelenika, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25307	I thank you, and I warmly welcome you, since I'm reporting for the first time today. Looking at this exhibition and the portraits of the victims of war and the words that they have said in me wake up special emotions and special memories of everything that I am as a volunteer and veteran of the homeland war as a doctor in the city survived, experienced, treated in the same way everything and those other and different that were in our hospital, so my message would be that the war did no good to anyone and that every mother was crying in the same way. So I absolutely support the Peace Platform with one message, my personal message, that I want us not to live beside each other, but to live with each other. It's my personal and big message and my contribution to this platform. The second part of the discussion will refer to, here, the discussion in our Club during this break with a colleague from the Club to see what the ambiguities are and so, so that, here, perhaps in agreement with the creators of the Platform, and yet for the possibility of even unanimous adoption of this Platform, acceptance or at least acceptance by the great majority of MPs, because it would be a strong message and actually achieve the goal. If we split up here I don't think it's some kind of big message, I think we're all for peace no matter what some of our colleagues would change, so I've prepared one conclusion here since talking to my colleagues might be some things that I haven't noticed given the desire to live with each other, and not one by one, as I like to say, uh, there might be some kind of misunderstanding of a guy which is an alternative interpretation of history. Could a better term be a true interpretation of history, rather than an alternative, in general, and perhaps a slightly incorrect interpretation of the supremacy of narratives, a very broad concept of which it does not know what it refers to. Then we discussed education here for a long time, on the one hand, it leads to discrimination, on the one hand assimilation, maybe to delete this divided, because in this Peace Platform, we have a very, very large number of items with which all my colleagues agree, and these three words that I have mentioned are, here, the grudges of the Club that I belong to, maybe we could agree with the creators of the Platform, so I have prepared one conclusion, of course, if that's what the procedure allows. I propose that a statement on the PRO-Future and Peace Platform project be postponed for the next session, with an attempt to comply with the comments of the MPs with the aim of being unanimous or acceptable by a number of MPs, which would be a strong message of co-existence in peace and tolerance. Here, so I'd ask the service to share it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25308	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, several colleagues and colleagues, including the minister, deserved my line, but one part of what I was about to say was taken away by a colleague of Diana Zelenika. So, we are really on the occasion today to either receive information like this or to the Platform, or to declare ourselves about it. And that's one political act that we bring our position as participants about, I guess we, too, are Mr. Emrić, therefore, partners, if we become partners, then so are we if today we say it is, not just these. The question could be asked where did the commissioners get the right to put their signatures 84 on this, whether these were the municipal council procedures. So, now a series of questions could be opened, because let us gentlemen, let us not be misunderstood, as we say here in Bosnia, we all understand, this is the political act of this House on some offered material and of two or three pages, at least personally as far as I'm concerned, so I've had a few remarks which, in part, Mrs. Zelenika brought out, so to see that these things that affect some kind of political attitude, and mine, too, because I vote, can I just get rid of them. It's to you that if the things of three passages of this one were to be thrown out, it doesn't really mean anything to you, all the other messages remain. Here, in my opinion, are political qualifications and it is, therefore, something that I simply cannot accept, so, if I make a statement about it, my colleagues will say what they're going to say. And finally, therefore, here's what Mrs. Zelenika said to Gospodin Backović, so I stand that neutrally, I haven't even spoken the word neutrally, okay, I agree, I wish... the word was true, but here and neutrally it can but alternatively can't. And to Mrs. Maji Gasal, therefore... a very rude remark from my colleague Kožul, I could say that her president fought for his position in Sarajevo and that he was a common fraud, that over 2,000 members of the Central Bosnia HVO died in the fight against the likes of him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25310	Well, I must warn of the Code of Address to other MPs and this finding of MP Komšić's fraud is certainly something that is outside the Code of Conduct... Nikola Lovrinović [[no microphone turned on]] Please listen to me, I'm running a session, so I'm giving you a heads-up. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25312	What do you think of a man who calls in the first sentence a second representative or one of the MPs doesn't misbehave and then uses and says "swindler". I think all stories are told about you, Mr. Lovrinović. As for my colleague Diana Zelenika, who I really consider to be a great humanist and I believe her discussion was in the direction of support, however, what is proposed in one conclusion, Mrs Zelenika, your goal is certainly to leave a message that the Parliamentary Assembly unanimously adopted this. And the discussion of my colleagues and colleagues shows that there is one support here, or that it could be most supported by this Platform, which means that some, whether because of the essence that is written here or because of some of the concerns they have, and which is their right to have, is that they will not give their support. So, I don't have a Democratic Front Club, and we don't have a problem with some of them saying they don't support the Peace Platform because the fact, or the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, has been showing us for 25 years that we haven't all been committed to stability and peace. So why is it a problem to just click on the button and show that you are not in favor of peace? That's one thing. And as for what is proposed to this, I would only instruct my colleague, Kožul and Lovrinović, to establish little communication within their party, because Mr Lovrinović and Mr Kožul accepted and adopted the BiH Presidency, and as far as I know from your party, 85, or from the HNS NGO, is a member of the BiH Presidency and gave the green light to the text itself. If that member of the Bureau had no objection to this text for God's sake as you have any objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25313	Thank you. Debate, Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25314	Thank you, Chairman. It's obvious that there's a little bit of a drop in concentration, and usually when it comes to emotional things, we're not too careful. I would like to and ultimately be careful for one space of reasons why we do not try to replace the thesis, and this question, I have used this way of discussion because that is the only way that the Rules of Procedure allows me otherwise I would not discuss this, and that is, above all, that we all here understand the suffering of those who have died. I ask you not to take the precautionary view that someone understands the suffering of these victims more or less, because it is evident that in this country everyone has been killed in different ways and that it is necessary for Parliament to affirm universality on such a matter. And please don't try to put it through certain attitudes about the project and their creator and bring it into the same context that someone here isn't careful and someone doesn't feel for it. A message of peace and stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be worked and announced every day. I believe that there are forces, I belong to those forces that affirm peace and stability in this country permanently, and I belong to that bunch of people who want to condemn every crime and every loss and I struggle permanently never to let it happen to anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I belong to that group of politicians from that party who affirm it and I have no problem with it. And I want us to talk about peace and stability every day and send these messages every day, not just that... that we will not unless this platform is adopted send a message that we are for peace and stability. I guess we should do it all the time. I wouldn't accept the thesis that we're going to declare ourselves the way anyone thinks about this by clicking on a key once, and that's where I'd like to be careful. Here is the point that the project creator PRO-Future stated by writing the project that one of the projects of activity was to be adopted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and that I believe that the College did not know that this was one of the project tasks that later finally the verifier was in Parliament. And that's what I talk about all the time. Therefore, I do not know what the statement will be, I would like to say very openly that, both my colleagues and I belong to those who permanently want to affirm peace and stability, we do not have this problem, it is our policy, we are not ashamed of this policy, we are not abused for daily and political purposes, but please give us that when we talk about some projects behind which international organisations are from any country, that I also fully refer to what country we do not bring to Parliament in a position that the creators are opening up a phenomenon in Bosnia and Herzegovina that each of those who implement a project on behalf of the international community, any factor, including as a project activity, will indicate that this will be adopted by Parliament. We're going to get into a trap, we're going to get into trouble, and it's not going to happen to the College, either home or home, it's not going to know, it's not going to happen, it's not going to create that kind of project. That's what we've been talking about all along today's debate. 86 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25315	I'm closing the discussion. Moving to point 20, Ad. 20. Report on the reasons for not taking the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security of BiH into full membership of the European Organisation for the Security of Quality in Higher Education (ENQA), with a concrete proposal for measures to eliminate observed weaknesses – applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH (realization of Salko Sokolović's parliamentary initiative, adopted at the 55th session of the House of Representatives held on 21.12.2017, 17.01. and 31.01.2018), act No: 01-50-1 2527-1/17, dated 30.03.2018. The House College has been designated by the Constitutional Legal Commission as competent to consider the report. The competent Commission delivered its opinion on 16.05.2018. The Commission received the report and adopted it. I'm opening a debate. Deputy Chairman Džaferović. Here you go. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25317	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. To discuss this issue, we need the Minister of Civil Affairs and the Director of this Agency here, and I suggest that it be voted immediately now, that this item of the agenda be postponed for the next session, that the Minister and Director of the Agency be called and that we then discuss this topic. That's it, thank you. I suggest you put this proposal to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25318	I put forward a proposal by Mr. Džaferović to postpone the act until there is the presence of the director of the Agency and the minister of civil affairs to vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What's the matter now? SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25320	Start a painful vote. _________(?) He can't, he can't vote. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25321	Well, you know, let's just hang up a little bit, let's bring down the tension, please, this is, you know, we have a request to finish work by half seven, so if we don't finish by half seven we're going to continue the session when we agree. So, since we don't have the obvious conditions and you've all said that without the presence of the people of the executive authority who can give answers, there's no point in having a discussion, and I think this is a perfectly logical proposal. Come on, Mr. Arnaut, explain to us what doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25322	The Rules of Procedure make it clear that, in the absence of a proposal for an act, the act shall not be discussed unless the House decides otherwise. So we have conditions not to discuss this and there's no need to vote. Here, the secretary nods his head and confirms I'm right. Just one more thing. Insulting MPs, Mr. Džaferović said – where you can say what you can and can't say. I'm asking this business intervention of mine to enter the record. Uh, because you see Mr. Džaferović, I mean, I can look for a break now for half an hour because we're still on this agenda, but I'm not going to act like you. But I'm telling you right now, I think if you're going to treat the MPs that way, you're going to get the same answer on our side, that's for sure, every time. So, at this point in the agenda is not discussed unless Dom decides otherwise, we can only vote to discuss it if someone proposes, but our position is that since there is no promoter there is no debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25323	Yeah. I'm putting the motion to postpone this point for the next one. For 23, against three, abstentions seven. There's a general and entity majority. This is what we've put off the act. The vote will be at 6:30. [[Common discussion]] Here, we have a request that it be at 6:30 not to leave early, so at 6:30 vote. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25326	Round two.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25327	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25328	Afterwards, a request for a later vote. Let's move on, point 6 – Before the draft law on change between us and additions to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-476/18, since 13/02 (second reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25329	Please repeat.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25330	We have a request for a repeat vote. So, please, let's do the sixth-point vote again. 89 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We repeat the vote once again. For 21, abstentions 12. There's a general and ethnic majority. We passed the Law in a second reading. Point 7. – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Nikola Lovrinović, Law No: 01-02-1-791/18, from 21.03.2018, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. We are voting on Parliamentarian Nikola Lovrinović's proposal. SECHIFIC
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25332	What's the conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25333	Should I read it? _________(?) You should. The proposal for a conclusion reads: It is up to the Council of Ministers to put the agenda item on the first next session of the Council – Amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on its position on the draft laws in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly procedure. We're voting on a proposal for a conclusion. For 14, v. 18, abstention 1. There's no general majority. The conclusion wasn't adopted. We are now voting on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. For 18, against 13, abstention 2. There's a general and entity majority. A negative Commission opinion has been adopted. The law is removed from the procedure. Point 8. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH – Proposer: MP Mirsad Đonlagić, Law No: 01-02-1-762/18, since 16/03/2018 (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. For 14, versus 13, abstention 3. The general majority exists, the entity majority does not exist in Republika Srpska. Shall we go now?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25335	Later. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25336	It's a later vote. We're going to point 9. – Proposal for a Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-3010/17, since 21.03.2018 (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. For 18, v. 8, abstention 7. There is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Shall we vote now?
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25337	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25338	It's a later vote. Point 10. – The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on before the article's entry into the agenda of the 60th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, which reads: "Information on the lack of paper for ballots: a) Pandurević on the formation of the Research Commission b) Lock on the establishment of a temporary Ad hoc commission to monitor the implementation of the General Elections in 2018", issue: 01-50-1-15-60/18, since 20.04.2018. We vote only in the second round on Parliament's proposal, Aleksandra Pandurević. For 19, against 15, there are no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. We adopted. Point 11. – The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the pre-election of Senad Šepić's MP for the inclusion of a new item in the agenda of the 60th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of Representatives, which reads as follows: "Information on the current position, evaluation of preparedness and ability of the Central Election Commission (CEC) to organise and conduct fair elections in October 2018", issue: 01-50-1-997/18, since 20.04.2018. We vote only in the second round on the proposal of Senad Šepić. For 22, versus 11, abstention 1. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. It means a proposal has been adopted. Point 12. – The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the pre-election of MPs Damir Arnaut and Saša Magazinović for the inclusion of a new item in the 60th agenda of the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives, which reads: "The debate on the work, activities and procedures of the CEC of BiH in light of the upcoming general elections and the need to be organised in a fair and fair atmosphere", issue: 01-50-1-999/18, from 20.04.2018. Only in the second round on the proposal of MPs Damir Arnaut and Saša Magazinović. 91 For 23, v. 3, abstention 8. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. It means we've adopted a proposal from the two MPs. Moving to point 13. – The request of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the Parlame National Assembly of BiH regarding the pre-law on the prevention of conflict between the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01/1-50-3-62/18, link number: 01-02-1-2573/17, since 17.04.2018. We are voting on setting a new 30-day deadline for the Council of Ministers to deliver an opinion on the pre-law on the matter of impediment to interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For 33, against 1, there are no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. Moving to point 14. – A request from the Joint Commission for the alignment of the text of the Law on Change between us of the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the amendment of one member appointed from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission, No: 01,02-02-1-2015/17, since 17.04.2018. I've only been told one proposal by Momčilo Novaković. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Momčilo Novaković. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25344	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25345	Now.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25346	No, not a delayed vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2018-05-17-0.u25347	Postponing vote. So we're going to point 17. – Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2017, issue: 01,02-50-19-951/18, since 13/04.2018. We're voting for adoption of the report. For 20, v. 9, abstention 5. There is a general majority, there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Voting later. Point 19. – Information on the project PRO-Future and Peace Platforms – applicant: Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, issue: 01,02-37-1671/17, since 11.07.2017. We're voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Diana Zelenika's letter. Should I read the conclusion? _________(?) Read it. 93 The proposal for a conclusion is: I propose that the statement on the PRO-Future and Peace Platforms be postponed for the next session, with an attempt to bring the MPs' remarks into line with the goal of unanimity or acceptance by a number of MPs, which would be a strong message of co-existence in peace and tolerance. We're voting on a proposal for a conclusion. For 21, against 10, abstention 3. There's a general and entity majority. It means the conclusion is passed and we don't have a vote on the Peace Platform. This concludes today's session. The next session is May 30th. Thank you. Session completed at 6:50 p.m.
