ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u1	And we're going to an extraordinary plenary meeting. [[B in m in s a l in]] This should be asked of the factions that announced it. You also often announce breaks, everyone does. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not my faction, it's non-fractional. Honourable National Deputies, in response to the requirement of 155 Ukrainian National Deputies and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council to review the bill under registration number 6376: amending the Tax Code of Ukraine (for the limitation of periods of extended application of accounting transactions by single taxpayers). People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. I would like to remind you that when you log in, you need to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the registration, that is, before the results on the board appear. People's deputies please register. [[13:32:02]] There are 97 national deputies registered in the hall. Ninety-seven national deputies registered. It's the turn of the plenary. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can the factions show the registration? Is there an option? Please. Dear national MPs, since there are no votes and there will be. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dmitri Alexanderovich, Dmitri Alexanderovich, you can hear what I have to say. Please. The next plenary session is open. There is an agreement, as the inclusion in the agenda, obviously from the votes, will now be given three minutes to the factions and perhaps to the non-fractional ones, for all three minutes, to come out of the factions and continue to try to vote on the inclusion in the agenda. There's an offer, okay? Then please sign up for the presentation from the rostrum. Allow me to sign up for the performance, please. Please, Gus Igor Volodymyrovich, MP's Party for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u2	Dear friends, please pass the word to Anna Speedhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u3	Please, Anna Speedhog, to the rostrum, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u4	You know, with these meetings, this Supreme Council has to be disbanded, because it's a disgrace, it's a disgrace, and it's the real face of the Supreme Council in front of the Ukrainian people. You and the "ministers of the people" serve only themselves and their wages, everyone's afraid of getting paid on time and without a fine. This is a disgrace, a real disgrace to entrepreneurs and people who are under the Supreme Council who have come specifically to defend their interests. You can't do that. We're just totally destroying the Supreme Council institution, the People's Deputy Institution. No one will respect you at all, you people just, you know, like some evil, you can't let that happen. Guys, we're just breaking up with the state. If you cannot meet, what can you talk about? Why was I chased around for a few days with signed letters? It was finally done. And not showing up for a meeting is a disgrace, a real shame. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've got a meeting, we've got a group. Why don't you take a break?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u5	Please do not interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u6	Why don't we take a break so everyone can split up? And everyone realizes that people meet, everything is planned. It's a disgrace. And with that attitude towards people, believe me, we're not going to go far with you, and we're never going to have a normal outcome. We've got entrepreneurs closing down right now. Did you promise 500,000 jobs? Did you talk about bringing people back from their earnings to Ukraine? You spoke. In the pre-election campaign you said we wouldn't change the rules of the game for small and medium-sized businesses. What now? You force people to close up and go to Poland, to Europe. We have more Ukrainians there than we have in Ukraine. So it's a real shame. And I don't understand how people can be treated that way. It's not the status of the MP, it's not the attitude of the MP to his electorate. You're all going to the districts now, and believe me, there's gonna be a riot. Because I judge myself from the way I go to the county. If people say we can't work, there's no mobile connection to what Internet to talk about if people are still using debt books. From salary to salary, from pension to pension, from debt books to Soviet times. And you're talking about the RRO? What are you talking about? We're closing now, there's no pharmacy in the villages, there's no shops at all, there's nothing in the small towns, we're going to sit and eat cucumbers with you from the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u7	Thank you. Please, "European Solidarity", Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please. We're every faction of three minutes. No, from the faction, Arthur. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's how the camera turned on the recording, we don't know. Do you want to play twice? Okay, I don't mind, please. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u8	Dear Ukrainians, the last sessional day of this year, and the authorities of the rogues and liars continue to defraud the people again. At first, miners were lied to when they gathered, the opposition, for an extraordinary session of parliament, and promised to resolve the issue of wages and debts to miners. Dropped, voted only on the first reading. The New Year's Eve Sails will be out of wages. And for leaving the miner with no wages, the servants got the envelopes. Today, FOPs were thrown away in a totally fraudulent way despite breaking the Rules. At first, they voted to end the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, then they announced just a break to run for the New Year's Servants and Servants Corporation, the servants of this oligarchy regime, who is actually doing everything to steal your money. You know, we've been told a lot about how small and medium-sized businesses are going to protect them, and they're all, like moles, from the Bank now through these underground transitions, they're running away from the Council because they're afraid to go out to the people who are freezing out on the street today, waiting for their issues and problems to be solved. Every year, a year when small businesses are very hard to survive. But these guys, who aren't even in the session room, they don't care, they have friends, they're fine. And to keep your head shut and tell you that everything is beautiful and beautiful and brilliant, they can only do it because of the Bank's controlled media. They've been trying to get through the headmaster in this room today, the head of the Committee on the Protection of the Rights of Migrants, to make an amendment so that we can have a nationwide television channel called the House, where a billion of your bracelets are being set aside, and so that the Russianization of Ukraine can take place. And they also allocated 15 million dollars for two weeks' work this year of the so-called updated network "The Council". Journalists on this channel are getting low wages, but by outsourcing, they've got people from Banks who, imagine, have received 9 million dollars for printing 15 papers, which is now called the "Council" network update. That's how these people steal your money, your taxes, your future, your hopes, and for that they just get envelopes. And in order to keep going, you know, the brain to powder the electorate, they need completely controlled TV channels. Excuse me, we will bring the truth about every "minister" who has not come to an extraordinary meeting today to resolve the small business issue, those who hold not only the army on their shoulders, but also the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honestly, conscientiously paying taxes. And here are these people, instead of thanking you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u9	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Arthur Volodymyrovich, well. I just got a call from the camera, they made a mistake, and I apologize for them. But what, are we gonna do this? It's not done, it's done by technology, I'm not writing it down. Please, Alexy Hotcharenko, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u10	Dear friends, what are you so worried about, you don't want to listen to the speeches? I understand there's almost no one left. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much want you all to see this picture. It doesn't matter, maybe some of you don't think that there's a lot to term, but most people think that we have to cancel these cashiers, a lot of people are going to shut down. It's written to me by a man, Gennady of Odessa, who owns a small store, who says, "This is terrible, what should I do? I wait for the last days, if not, I give a witness, I close." Friends, but I want you to pay attention to how many of the People's Servants have come to see us take part in this vote. They may have a different point of view, that's their right, but come, vote against, say we're against because. Why don't you? And this all seems like some kind of thieving. At first we collected signatures, somewhere we found deputies from two factions who withdrew their signatures, and we're told there's not going to be a session. We say, if someone called back, let's add. No, you can't do that. Well, they knocked it out, they added, they did have to call a session. Then they take time, some breaks that are not understood, whatever. And the question is, look, yesterday you all voted in industrial parks, freeing yourself from income tax for 10 years, freeing you from VAT on equipment, that is, withdrawing taxes. Look, when you took 5,600, you made a gift to Saint Nicholas' day, not to St. Igor's, you put under the tree a tiny gift like this for 600 million dollars that there will be no rent of marganic ore taken by one person in the country, Igor Valeriyovich Kolomoyski. No, you're okay here, you've found a way to get his taxes and presents off here, and you don't need to raise taxes. And when it came to the FOPs, and no, we're up to our fingernails, we're Europe. So for Igor Valeriyovich Kolomoyski, we're not Europe, but for the FOPs we're Europe, for everyone else we have to take their throats and shake everything out of them. Let's shake it all up and send it to "the Great Stealing." Guys, you can't do this to people. They'll just get together, they'll go, they'll go 100,000 more people to Poland, their families will stay, they'll have to be provided socially. You're twisting a spiral that's not going to end well. On the contrary, we need to create jobs, on the contrary, allow people who do not ask us for anything, say that we will earn ourselves, we will feed our families, do not touch us. Don't touch it. It's the only thing they're asking. Instead, you destroy them. Well, that's embarrassing. The result is obvious to everyone. Friends, this is a gift you gave to the Ukrainian people until the day of Santa Claus, and I'm ashamed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u11	Thank you, Mr. Alexia. Please, "Fatherland", Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u12	Respectable Society! I rarely go out on this rostrum with political speeches, hardly going out. But what I want to say now. What prevents our country from developing? A few years ago, a small parliamentary delegation came to Norway — the most successful country in the world. According to the human development index, they've come first or foremost in the last 10 years. And here we are met by the Prime Minister, who before that was two summonses, our delegation, and accompanied us all week long, saying: the secret to Norway's success is simple. Second of January, I come to Parliament, I, Prime Minister, am gathering everyone: both coalition and opposition, and we are having a discussion, a dialogue that threatens and risks Norway this year. This year’s budget is due for the next period. Day or two or three or four, we make decisions and we go to work. The formula for our success is three "d": dialogue, trust and action. I don't look back, nobody's gonna leave me there, nobody's gonna let me down. The Norwegian Parliament is facing the Chewchenk House. Whoever was in Oslo, they saw, in this circle, all the state institutions, and each one of the windows sees that it's the stern building, the one that feeds Norway. Friends, we don't, unfortunately, have no dialogue in all of our years of independence, no trust, and from there, the actions are chaotic, non-systemic, and we have what the classic said. They dropped the miners yesterday. How can you throw away the people who are now. We realize that we have a huge energy crisis right now, that we need our coal -- 1.5 billion dollars was paid to someone. Some miners were not supported, and others were not supported. Cynicism! There was a time when one of the classics used to say, but there were no such cynical ones. Today, we throw away those miserable ones who stand still, who survive. Micro, it's not small anymore, it's microenterprises. Guys, uh, are we gonna shake each other's hands right now and get together in a month? And what these people will do to their families for a month is millions of people. Well, aren't we smart enough? Seven leaders of political structures, and we meet with the Prime Minister every week, face-to-face. But listen, it's not a stupid thing to say. Tomorrow you'll be the opposition. Tomorrow you'll say the same thing. We continue not to create, but to destroy. The best minds work not to build, but to destroy. I'm sorry about the original language, though I don't love it. God's help.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u13	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. Please, the Voice faction, Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u14	Galina Vasilchenko, Justice Union, Lviv.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u15	Excuse me, please. Can you do it after the Voice? Thank you, thank you. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u16	Galina Vasilchenko, Justice Union, Lviv. Dear national MPs, dear Ukrainians, distinguished FOPs! You know, what's going on in the session room today, unfortunately, is a huge disgrace. You, I'm now addressing the "ministers of the people" who gave entrepreneurs hope, when they were able to call together, to collect signatures for the next meeting, when they held a committee, and that the session room is now almost empty -- it's, unfortunately, a huge disgrace. You gave people the hope of upholding their rights. They did not advocate for the year to preserve the simplified tax system, constantly went to the rally, this last week, when it was almost all the time raining, snow, and today they came from various parts of Ukraine to express their position. And literally this week, the committee was set up, we have a task force in the tax committee that's going to settle this issue. And in my opinion, it would be absolutely logical now to defer in January, February, literally in the first quarter, to settle this issue in such a way that we no longer have these problems. And there are relevant bills registered in the session room. At a time when, in all countries of the world, civilized countries, quarantines, crises, and everything that happens to the coronavirus, nations go to business concessions, on the contrary, to tax relief, to tax pressure -- something that happens to us. I want to go to the entrepreneurs and tell you to take a good look at who didn't come and register in the session room today. Remember and see, making the following choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u17	Thank you. Please, Opposition Platform for Life, Makarenko Mikhailo Vasilovich. Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u18	Clearly, the "ministers of the people" were told not to show up. Where's our speaker, where's Ruslan Alexiyovich? At such a responsible moment in the next session he must be here. The government that does not hear its people is doomed. Look, these people have been out on the streets for a year now, protecting their rights. What's the problem, why are they coming out? All they ask is for a year to delay the entry of cashiers and all. They're not asking for preferences from the country, they're making a living with their work, they're all at the front of the struggle for economic independence and the independence of our state. And so ignoring them, not communicating with them, is completely wrong, especially that the Ukrainian Parliament, through the knee of these people, has been divided into "minors of the people" factions. And I am absolutely sure that if there is a political conscience in the audience, it is necessary to understand that this Parliament is doomed. There cannot be a Parliament that has distanced itself from people and that does not hear them. And that's why our faction is ready to give mandates, to step out of Parliament so that we don't have 300 deputies, and the people of Ukraine choose a new parliament to protect, to respond to those questions that concern people, not the political ambitions of leaders that govern the majority today. For Parliament to be re-elected, people must choose a new parliament, this parliament has exhausted itself and has no future. You're giving a new parliament!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u19	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, MP Group for the Future, Mealik Viktor Nichiporovich. Mealer Victor Nichiporovich. Sergey Rudik? Please, Sergey Ruddick, "To the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u20	Dear friends! Friends are the ones who are in the room right now, friends are the ones who haven't responded to the ivy, who obviously offered for not being in this room. Friends are the ones who have not forgotten their promises to the voters. Friends are the ones who are going after this meeting called into the districts and will look them in the eye honestly and try to answer the tough questions that people have for today: why little wages; why they didn't raise their pension; why we have such cloudy tariffs; why we have good roads in large areas and why we have bad villages in small villages; why we have a Moscow soldier standing on the borders of our state and we don't know what's going to happen tomorrow; why we have the highest level of death in Europe by COVID; and many others by "why". We, Marjorie deputies, represent just over a tenth of this warehouse. We were voted people as humans, as living people with a name, a name, and a father whom we proudly bear. Not for the mythical roller coasters, not for any mythical promises or lies. Because what's happening right now is people's eyes are opening. Because we're here now to try to apologize for the small majority who on September 20th of 19th said that everyone, even micro-entrepreneurs who trade coffee, sells 100, up to 200 cups of coffee a day, has to keep accounting, RRO, to be completely fiscalized as representatives of big business, 237 votes were said "for," and two years of hard fighting. Do you remember what happened a year ago on Maidan? People were beaten with sticks, like criminals. What? One Minister of Internal Affairs, another comes in, someone is being punished for this? No, it's not. Today, small entrepreneurs are the biggest criminals who are accused of hiding their money under pillows. We don't think so. And everyone who doesn't think so is my friends who are in this room right now. Of course, we will not make any decisions today, we will go to the people. And I'm taking this opportunity to contact you friends who are in this room: let's make up for yesterday's monopoly breakup that dumped the miners without giving them the money they earned. Let's call "Vow One," who has the right to it, and we'll list the families of miners so that they can at least meet this new year and live with the hope that they'll pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u21	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Please, "Serve of the People", the Gethmans Danilo Alexanderovich. And this is the last, I take it, performance, all the rest of the factions. "Trust" didn't make a wish and everyone else came forward. Please add a minute to make three.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u22	Thank you. Everyone knows my position on this issue, so I'm not going to repeat it, we're talking about it for two and a half years. I'm not going to talk about the countries where this system works, these are all countries in Europe except Ukraine. These are countries in Asia, these are countries in Africa, these are countries in America. I'm not going to talk about the "white" business that's standing on my knees, begging us, begging us for the same conditions, the same rules for doing business in this country. I'm not going to talk about the simplicity of running the RRO system, which is the least in Europe, that we don't need the original documents that people lie about, that RRO won't work in villages where stores sell food, that software RROs are free. I'm not going to talk about big stores that in Chrystec and in big and medium cities, with traffic per day like the FOP should have in a year, are working on FOPs. I'm not going to talk about 70,000 OFPs on a single tax that are already set up by RRO and working through RRO. I want to say why we're the poorest country in Europe in 30 years of independence. Why do we, when we go to Europe, see roads, see the rule of law, see the order at all, and we don't see it here? Because we've probably been doing populism for 30 years. That's what they're doing in this room right now. We're dealing with populism. We try to make irresponsible decisions, as if wanting to please people today without caring for the same people, for their future, for them tomorrow. That's what Ukrainian politics is. And that is not what we are, for we take responsibility. And why is there an empty hall? Why an Empty Hall? Perhaps because there are people in the room who also understand what responsibility is and what political responsibility is. Because it's in the hall. And there are statesmen who care about future generations, not their ratings! Not about your ratings next week. And I want to draw your attention to the fact that such people are in all factions. All factions have people like that. There's no majority in any faction right now. So I call everyone to account. I urge everyone to think about people, think about the future, think about our children, not think about ratings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u23	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. So the performances are over. Nobody needs a line? No mention of anyone? Okay. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. In order of the day draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation under registration number 6376 (for the limitation of periods of extended application of payment transactions by single taxpayers). This question first requires a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the session. This takes 226 votes. I would like to vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine (for the limitation of periods of extended application of payment transactions by single taxpayers) (Registration No. 6376). Please vote. [[14:00:46]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Or we could go back, I didn't see the total. For 102. Read it? Please come back, I'll read the factions. "Serve of the people": 36 – yes, 1 – no, 3 – held, 11 – not voted, 51 together. "The Opposition Platform – Life": in favour – 12, against – 0, held – 0, did not vote – 3, together – 15. "European Solidarity": for – 21, against – 0, held – 0, did not vote – 1, together – 22. "Paternality": for – 10, against – 0, held – 0, did not vote – 1, together – 11. For the Future, the Party, the MP's Party for the Future: for the 11th, against the 0, held the 0, did not vote 1, together 12. Deputies faction of the Voice Party: in favour of -0 versus -0, held -0 did not vote -9, together -9. Deputies' group "Trust" in favour of -4, versus -0, held – 0, did not vote – 7, together – 11. Postfraction: 8 versus 0, held - 1, did not vote - 0. Thank you. The decision to be included in the agenda of the day session is not adopted, so we cannot consider the bill at this session. If anyone needs to speak, we can do so before Christmas. Are you in or what? Now. I'm sorry, five-second break, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u24	I've just been informed that there's an urgent announcement for my camera. I am now continuing for half an hour from the end of my consideration of the matter, Mr. Alexander, so that was about when -- 13:55, right? When was the end of the discussion, colleagues? I'll tell you what. And we had a vote, we'll see when it was. 14:00:46 seconds. So by 2:30 and 46 seconds, I'm going to continue with article 28 of the Rules, and I'm waiting for this announcement. As soon as that announcement is made, I'll let him know and close the meeting immediately. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't go on, I announced a break, that's different. Who's gone?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u25	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u26	No, 30, Irina Volodymyrna, 30. Please, article 28, paragraph 8, of the Rules: The presiding officer has the right to announce a recess of up to 30 minutes, but not more than one recess during one meeting. Please. Please watch the broadcast and understand the channel.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-17-m1.u27	In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, I report on the election of the People's Deputy of Ukraine to the post of Head of the deputy faction of the political party "The Voice" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Klimenko Julius Leonidovna was elected deputy head of the political party. Thank you. The next plenary session. [[Unheard]] Where's Umerova? No, Ustinova, it's written. Where's that? Here's Ustinova, please. [[Unheard]] Let me go now, Kira's the mother. No, let me close the session now, and we'll continue Mrs. Kira's conversation. Please, I'm just like the camera told me. We're on our way. According to 96 or 97? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. According to article 96 of the Rules in the plenary session of Ukraine, except for In the case of the envisaged part of the fourth session, that is, when a procedural decision is taken that is not taken, only bills included in the agenda of the Supreme Council are considered. Since we did not win 226 votes in favour of joining the agenda of the Supreme Council’s ninth call to Bill 6376, we cannot therefore continue to consider it at our next meeting. Therefore, I declare the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. All the beautiful holidays, especially the "European Solidarity" faction, which is almost in full stock, have been left to the end of all our interrogations. And, of course, to all the good, love. With Christmas and New Year's Eve. I'll see you in January. Thank you.
