ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u1	Honorary colleagues, honourable deputies, in response to the requirement of 156 Ukrainian national deputies and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council Rules, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council to review Bill No. 5891-1, amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 (to pay off the arrears and current salaries of employees of state-owned enterprises). And according to the requirements of part four of article 110 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we should consider the bill’s registration number 5891 at the same time. People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. I would like to remind you that when you start registering, you need to hold the sensor button and click on the green pros button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. [[15:11:58]] For - 321. Decision taken. I now declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, we have two with a replacement for the performance. Please, first the Shkrum, and then the "Slut of the People" will. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u2	Good afternoon, colleagues! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I really want to make a short good announcement, talk a little bit about some nice good things before Santa's Day. And to inform you that today, in the towers of the Supreme Council on the first floor, we have invited here the branch of Krašta, which is conducting a general action with the interfractional unification of "No Labels", MPs from many, many factions of Parliament, the Presidency of Parliament, Krakrašta, also the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Mr. Tkachenk, as part of the week of literature and reading, to sign our Ukrainian children now living in children's homes and boarding schools, to Ukrainian children's education, scientific, entertaining publications. Every deputy, every civil servant, every public official, every journalist, every Ukrainian can do a good job today to St. Nicholas and give children a gift in children's homes, and for now more than 77,000 live in all areas of Ukraine, give them not sweets, but some knowledge, hobbies, pleasant news, the possibility of learning Ukrainian, English, stickers, paintings and any Ukrainian class editions. So I ask you to join this action, to give children adventures, to give children knowledge, to come to the branch office today, which is right here in the Supreme Council, and to sign any children's house in your area, district, village, region for Ukrainian children's publications. And continue to distribute it, and this action continues until Santa's Day. We've already got thousands of people involved and we're going to get even more involved. Let's do this little, little but good thing. And thank you all for joining us. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u3	Thank you, Your Honor. I invite you to take another break with the replacement for the performance, National Deputy Nagorniak Sergei. And then we move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Many of you today have taken note of my dress today, and it is not accidental. It's in the colors of our friendly country today, the Republic of Kazakhstan. Today, Kazakhstan celebrates its 30th anniversary of independence. I'd like to welcome them from our friendly Supreme Council team on Independence Day. We have a lot in common with history, we have heroes in common, and so we have a future in common. Our trade balance today is a little under $1 billion. I believe we can increase it, not double it, not triple it, but 10 billion. And our group of friends today has 40 national deputies, and we're all going to be friendly about it. Let's applaud our Kazak friends on Independence Day. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, before your consideration, there is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 (to pay off debts and pay current wages to employees of state coal companies) (project registration numbers 5891 and 5891-1). First, it requires a vote on the inclusion of this issue in the agenda of the day session, which requires 226 votes. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Colleagues, please prepare for the vote, 226 votes required. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[15:16:13]] For 287 Decision taken. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. It takes 150 votes to make a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, they're waving no. I'm asking you to consider this with a reduced procedure. [[15:16:47]] For 259. Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] We can't vote because people say they are. Discuss or not? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's see, is the national deputy of Salamaha speaking? No, it's not. Ukrainian National Deputy Volinec Mikhailo Jakovic? He won't speak. From the committee, please, Mikhail Yakovic. Mikhail Yakovich, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u6	Dear friends, we should consider that our country is now in a deep energy crisis. There are less than 16 billion reserves of natural gas left in the shelters. Last year, stocks amounted to 26.4 billion, less than 10.5 billion cubic metres of gas. According to guaranteed reserves at thermal power plants, there would now be 922,000 tons of coal, in reality 460, twice as much. And it hasn't been a cold yet. The miners are now standing on the street, protesting, and standing by the President, near the Cabinet of Ministers in view of the fact that, for this moment, the government coal mines have a debt of 1 billion 708 million. In December, when the salary is paid for December, the debt will increase to 2 billion 400 million. And when the January month salary is added, the debt will reach 3 billion 100 million to miners alone. It's slavery when people work, it's hard to work -- they don't pay their wages. I thank the people from the Committee on Budgets who unanimously supported the bill yesterday to vote today as a basis and as a whole. But I have received information, confidential information, that Mr. Arahami, the leader of the "Serve of the People" faction, has today entrusted the MPs with a majority vote only on the first reading. It's a lie, it's a manipulation! We're going on vacation for a month and a half, and then there's going to be work in the districts. In two months, there will be no way to pay the miners. I'm asking Mr. Arahami to come out here and explain why you're giving these instructions. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u7	The word is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Budgets, Gevko Volodymyr Leonidovich. Replica, Arahama, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u8	Look, we're used to you manipulating and lying to people. I'm sorry about that right now. Because yesterday, you're saying that I gave an order there today, yesterday on the committee was voted not because you're collecting populist statements, but because we want to pay people, not just like that. And we know that we need to make changes. The "Hope" shaft is also a debt. And we say we have to have a consultation with Minfin, find the source of the funds and pay them back in January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u9	The word is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Budgets, Gevko Volodymyr Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u10	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs! The Budget Committee for the Implementation of the Order of the Head of the Supreme Council on the convening of the extraordinary plenary meeting immediately on December 15 at its meeting, considered Bill 5891-1. The bill proposes to increase the expenditure of the state budget general fund by 2.4 billion dollars to repay debt and pay wages to employees of state-owned industrial enterprises. The source of such expenses is an increase in government income from rent for the use of nadrama and natural gas. According to GNEU and Minfin, there are risks of implementing the government budget's revenue plan on an increased scale, taking into account the current state of implementation and the decisions already made to increase the government's planned revenues. In addition, it has been noted that there is a lack of adequate financial and economic calculations to increase the cost of coal restructuring. During the drafting of the bill, proposals came from law - abiding entities, some of whom were supported. It is worth noting that the bill requires the introduction of technical legal rights related to the need for the presentation of budgetary figures in the text and in additions, taking into account the previous amendments to the State Budget Act for this year. On the basis of the Committee’s consideration of the matter, the following decision was adopted. To recommend to the Supreme Council the results of the first reading of Bill 5891-1, to adopt it on the basis of the proposals for preservation to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion or a vote? We can go to the vote, right? No, it's not. Then it's written: two in, two in, two in. Sign up: two in, two in. I don't give a vote behind my outstretched hand. The word is given to National Deputy Kubbit Yuri Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u12	I ask you to pass the word to Kamelchuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u13	Yuri Camelchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u14	Yuri Kamelchuk, "Slut of the People" faction, red-city mining district. Five hundred, eight hundred, a thousand, and more meters underground, miners extract coal for which we are now searching abroad and paying off the money. They're entitled to pay today and now. We have to pay them. But we have to pay them not on paper, but on real paper. So the changes we have to make to the budget, we have to take into account absolutely every enterprise that's owed in the 20th year, in other years, in these years, in the current year. All wages have to be paid, including the Hope Mine, which has been unpaid for months since the 20th. And they don't understand whether they get it someday or not. If, unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers, Minfin and Minneergo have not yet rectified the situation, Parliament can do so. Let's make this decision and support the miners who are standing there on the street right now, they're gonna freeze to death for the wages they deserve. Ukraine is Ukrainian coal! The glory of mining! Thank you to the miners! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u15	Heroic glory! The word is given to Sergio Jaroslavovich Rudik, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u16	Please pass the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u17	Please, Igor Gus.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u18	Dear friends, I also represent Mining District No. 19. And besides the question that we're about to vote on, I want to tell you on behalf of all the Volin miners: we've treated miners as badly as we have in the last two years, we've never seen them. This must be acknowledged and made clear. Ukraine is building the only mine, No. 10. I've had enough here to talk about it in the past, in this. We don't have coal, we don't have a bunch of chipmunks, and so on. It was a matter of authority. No minister of the coal industry wants to come and ask that question. The only mine, we can't build another mine. One billion 500 million dollars invested is government money. And today, every month, it melts. And knock, don't knock, don't give a shit. We either have to build it, and we have to do it, or we don't have to play it, come to people and say it in principle: we're not going to build it. But don't lie, because unfortunately, it's done every day. Next. I've got two mines in the area: 9th and Bujanska. Unfortunately, 50 to 100 miners are reduced every quarter. No one thinks about continuing the lava. There's coal! We need to take a normal view of this situation. So, of course, I urge you to support this bill. But, my friends, we don't have a minister of the coal industry. There isn't! I asked you five times: come to my district, gather all of you, let's talk about what to do, how to support. Zero response. Unfortunately, I have to say from this rostrum: the attitude of power toward miners, specifically in Volina, is worthless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u19	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Gerasim Arthur Volodymyrovich. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask you to vote for the basis as a whole. That is exactly what the budget committee supported yesterday. I don't know why a colleague today will report that as just a basis. On the basis and in general. I was present and reported on this law. The second question is the Hope Mine, which was mentioned today. The Ministry of Energy said it has 90 million saved money, it can flip out the debt on the Hope Mine. In all the other carbon companies, state-owned enterprises today need to vote on this bill and close their debts before the New Year. Mikhail Yakovic said that we are now going for five weeks in fact on vacation, the miners will not wait for us to come and make changes in the second reading of this bill, and we will be able to cover our debts. Once again, we vote on the basis and in general, we close our debts to the miners and then we go on vacation. Thank you, colleagues. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u21	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Nemiri Grigori Mihajlovich, faction of "The Fatherland". Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u22	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, what's going on here? How can this be reported from a committee decision that is actually falsified from this rostrum? All who attended the committee yesterday know that the decision was based on the whole. You have no right to change your mind. The second decision. Why didn't you sit around all this time and make the right laws? The opposition collected the necessary signatures. We are very grateful to the representatives of the majority who have similarly supported this proposal, the bill that we are currently discussing, for the authorship of our colleague Volintz and others, provides for an increase of 2.4 billion funding. Sir, who spoke from the majority faction, takes into account all the suggestions that you have, including yours. If you have to calculate any suggestions, make them, but the whole sector cannot suffer because of the unaccounted for in some particular mine. You can imagine what the whole sector is going to be like now, if you don't have a $2.4 billion loan on the coal sector. Our proposal is as follows. Vote as a whole, and by the new year, almost 2.5 billion dollars will be out of debt. All you have to do is report separately. Please prepare these proposals, as drafted by the drafters, put it on the budget committee, put it on the table for any other meeting and report. We and your offer will support it. So our proposal is based on both the whole and the debt of 2.5 billion before the New Year. Minfin keeps reporting on the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, since. Now, just a minute. "The Opposition Platform for Life" Julius Yakovitch Iofphe. Then there's Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Factions and groups only, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, we are absolutely, our faction supports Mr. Sobolev's previous speech. We have to pay everyone absolutely before the New Year, so today we can adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. But I want to say the following. The shafts, 37 state shafts, are brought to the pen. They spend an average of 250 tons a day, and this can't give them any prospects for normal work, so that they can get money and get wages. Let me give you an example. On the line of delimitation, the Bahmutian Way is known to all, is the Mountain Mine: the layer is 1 meter 80, the lava is ready, the mine is now extracting 100 tons, only it certainly can't feed itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u25	Thank you. Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. Pass it on, please. If Vladimir Juryovich will pass it on to Mrs. Grib, please, I'll pass it on. Please, Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, first of all, I have a question from our group. If we're going to an emergency meeting today to resolve the issue, let's support our colleagues, vote in general to speed up this process. That's the first one. You have to prepare all these things, including with the government. But I want to talk to my colleagues right now. Be correct in the speeches, the Supreme Council doesn't go on any vacations, dear colleagues, we'll work, we'll work committees, we'll work in the districts, and there's no vacation. So let us make this subject clear as it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I'm sorry, the Trust has already taken the floor, we have only factions and groups under the Rules. Dear colleagues, once again, factions and groups. If any of the factions or groups hand over, please, if not, I'm going to make a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I have a committee decision in my hands. I don't know what you're talking about. So, dear colleagues, I say again, I must go as prescribed in the Rules. So, dear colleagues, I'm proposing to the committee to take the basis of the committee's proposals, Bill 5891-1. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2021 (to pay off debt and pay current wages to employees of state coal companies). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please vote. [[15:34:48]] For 311
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-16-m1.u28	Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
