ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u1	Dear colleagues, in response to the requirement of 153 national deputies and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we today have an alternate plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The above-mentioned meeting questions are given to you. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, you're in the hall. My watch must be going wrong. Mikhaylo Mikolaiovich, we'll be waiting with you for another 10 minutes when everyone leaves. All right, we got a deal. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, yes. Ready? Please register. [[17:23:27]] There are 290 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, a statement has been made for a recess with a replacement for the performance. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u2	Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite all the representatives of the "Plass" interfractional association in the Council, as well as all the friends, colleagues of "Plass". Dear Ukrainians, today, together with the national MPs, we would like to say hello to you with the plastic slogan "SCOB!": strong, red, careful and bistro. Yesterday was 109 years old from the day of the first plastic oath. It was in 1912 that Plast began in Lviv from the time when the first plastic group, a group of children made a plastic oath to Ukraine’s loyalty. For over 100 years, Lubomir Guzar, Bogdan Gavrilishin, Oleg Olzic, Kvetka Cisik, Mikola Plavjuk, Roman Suhević, Stepan Bandera, and many other prominent leaders of our country, who have shown by their lives and actions that we can influence the construction of our nation by building our activities on ideology, on values and on the faith and loyalty of our country. Bogdan Gavrilishin used to say, "If Ukraine had half a million plastics, it would be possible not to worry about the future." Because loyalty to God and Ukraine, aiding others and self-improvement are fundamental values that the plastic movement has fostered in Ukrainian youth since the early 20th century. And in fact, if Ukraine had taken as an example other progressive states and supported Ukrainian scouting since independence, we would hardly have occupied the areas of Donbas and Crimea today. But it's better late than never. And today, we, the plastics, and friends of the Plast in the Supreme Council want to thank this parliamentary call for the Act on Support for Plastic Movement in Ukraine, adopted in December 2019. [[Applause]] Today, plastic movement is 10,000 canvasses, as well as more than 2,000 adult volunteers, who each day devote their free time and their desire to working with Ukrainian youth. And we call on the entire Parliament and all the central authorities of the state to continue to support the country's largest youth movement, the Scout Movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u3	Another statement came in for a break with a replacement for the performance, Bondar Viktor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u4	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, has just completed an extraordinary session with five simple questions initiated by our parliamentary group of the "For the Future" political party. The questions were so simple and so much so that they seemed to unite the entire room. The question of population tariff cuts, the question of how to finally put order in this energy sector, and remove from the market the intermediaries that supply us gas on double-tier tariffs. The decision to order electricity tariffs is made so that finally Ukrainian atomic energy will choke and start building reactors so that the economy in Ukraine will finally recover and that the population will receive the payment at which it will receive today's real price, the Ukrainian economy, electricity and gas. What do we have in mind? And we have a complete failure. I want to pay attention to whose hands these ballots have failed -- with the hands of our "ministers of the people" who have actually failed these five documents in this room. I want everyone who has voted today and voted a year and a half ago in favour of MPs to look at the results of the vote and look at the names that have not voted in favour of these rulings today and not lower the tariffs for the population. We didn't give you a chance to put order in this area, so you could tell everyone in your eyes that, my friend, we chose you and we believed in you, and you and I went to the polls under those green flags. And I think everyone today has to conclude that the diletarian era is about to end, an era when people come to power who don't understand anything about energy, transportation, national agriculture, industry, education and so on, it has to end. There are going to be professional people coming in, who for 20 to 30 years in every field have proven by their work that they know how to come in and order, and then these decisions wouldn't even be in the hall, because there's no reason to look at them. Then the government that was sitting here should be completely in the government's bed, sitting in full at least out of respect for you, the "Serve of the People" deputies. So they can tell you why these are situations, why they're tariffs. And then this situation would be completely different. I urge you to stretch out your hand once and for all. We're ready to sit down with you, rework these documents. Energy documents, industrial documents, transport documents. So you can have a budget to give people normal tariffs. To pay off the debts they have accumulated for utilities. And we, our "For the Future Party" MP group, are ready to spend day and night here for these decisions just to get people out of the situation. And give it a full budget, and give it a revival of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as you requested, we begin the work of the extraordinary session at 5:30 p.m. Colleagues from one faction and another called. Thank you. Let's move on to the agenda. You have been proposed a draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Final and Transitional Provisions of Ukraine on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine aimed at providing additional social and economic guarantees in connection with the spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (for specific issues of the end of the 2020/2021 academic year) (registration No. 5014). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:31:40]] For 281 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:32:04]] For 252 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Larissa Mikolayevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u6	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! We, along with colleagues from other factions and MPs, introduced Bill 5014 to Parliament. The bill was tabled at the request of our electorate and supported by a profile committee as an urgent matter. According to him, school graduates will be freed from compulsory DPA in the form of a TNP and will be able to choose for themselves a pandemic in which to form a summary assessment, whether it's an annual evaluation, whether it's a DPA in the form of a school exam, or a DPA in the form of a DN, if a child really plans to join a college at their own request. In principle, this bill continues the practice that we applied in the previous year during the pandemic in accordance with the Ukrainian law, which was adopted at the initiative of the President of Ukraine. I am convinced that in today’s conditions and given the complex epidemiological situation, it is a necessary step that we must take together. Please support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u7	The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation, Babak Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u8	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's really a very good bill. Why is he beautiful? And because he takes the floor, he repeats the bill last year, which was submitted by the President of Ukraine. The committee considered the bill at its meeting and recommended that it be accepted as a whole. In fact, the committee held several meetings before which representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Chief Sanitary Doctor, the Ministry of Health, the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment of Education were invited, and we modulated, and modeled several times, depending on the level of disease in Ukraine. And given that the disease rate has increased at the same time over the past year, we decided to continue the practice of last year and allow children to form a DPA, especially in the form of a DPA, as they wish. Thank you, colleagues. Please support it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u9	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u10	Please pass the word to Paulie Rostislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u11	Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u12	Dear colleagues, indeed, the bill reproduces the practice of last year. So "European Solidarity" will support and encourage other colleagues. But there is another matter to consider. We have to repeat the extraordinary steps we took last year, because in this year the authorities practically failed everything about the fight against the coronavirus: first they sold masks, then they forgot about the oxygen, they practically destroyed the vaccine. We still hear only some plans and intentions, and we do not see specific agreements. So, dear colleagues, we call for signatures, and first of all, it's about MPs from the People's Service, putting signatures in order for us to meet again and resolve issues that are, in fact, related to the fight against coronary infection in order to allocate the cost of vaccination, because only the allocation of these funds guarantees the supply of vaccines, not intents, not conversation, not the allocation of funds. And, dear colleagues, we are now seeing information that the government, the Ministry of Health, wants to raise funds for vaccination from hospitals, medical care, and the like. It's unacceptable. It's as unacceptable as the vote here, unfortunately, to take the grant money out of the grant. So there's where to get the money -- there's the DA's office, there's the law enforcement office, there's the President's office. Dear colleagues, we need to get together, settle these issues so that next year we, too, do not give God, do not have to repeat such decisions as this, for which we will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u13	Klochko Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u14	Please pass the word to Koleboshin. I'll give you the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u15	Sergey Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u16	Dear colleagues, please support this bill, which appeared in the session hall, including the initiative of the President of Ukraine. I want to point out that it's not at all that someone doesn't want to organize a state-based summary appraisal or a failure, but it's about the highest priority of the child and any student of the educational process -- health. Last year's experience of a similar decision has allowed us to lower the test points by 25 to 30 percent. We expect the same thing to happen this year. Moreover, this does not require any additional funding from the State budget, because all the costs of conducting, the quality of conducting external independent evaluation in both the Ministry and the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment of Education are. And the next. All test centres are priority in terms of vaccination. So the state is doing everything to ensure that the external independent evaluation, which is a priority from the point of view of grade of our graduates, takes place. Because the child’s health is a higher priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u17	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u18	Natalia Pippa.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u19	Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u20	Natalia Pippa, 115th District, Lviv, Voice faction. Ukraine and every family need healthy and intelligent children. Last year, the COD did not increase the number of patients on the Coronavirus, but the abolition of mandatory state-owned summary attestation, that is, examinations for all, would have a very bad effect on the knowledge and motivation of students to study and teachers to work. Teachers, parents, and you'll be surprised, even some 11-year-olds, that you don't have to cancel exams, that there's no better students or worse, that everyone has to give the same. The Voice faction insists that public summary testing should not be cancelled, but rather focus on the safe pass of the exams. So that's the amount in the rooms, the distance between them, the aired spaces, the masks and the antiseptics. The results of PISA showed how much knowledge of Ukrainian students, and this is unfortunately far behind in other economically developed countries. We all want a good job, we all want to live in a rich country, because with war they only attack poor countries, rich countries can only create intelligent people, only intelligent citizens. After all, who will ask our graduates whether they were studying in the Coronary Year or in the ordinary when they go to work, they will all want to know their knowledge and their ability to analyze. 72 percent of Ukrainians, according to the Institute of the Future, believe that remote education has failed and that the DPA has been canceled is a way for the Ministry of Education to hide the results. Again, Ukraine and every family need healthy and intelligent children. And that's why we don't have to cancel the exams, but we need to ensure good distance learning and focus on the safe conduct of the exams.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u21	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u22	Constankewicz Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u23	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u24	Irina Konstanovic, Future Group, 23rd constituency, Volin. Your Honor, of course, the Future Group will support this bill as one that solves the acute problem on time and on time. At the same time, we think that right now the reason is to ask about the quality of education, which unfortunately concerns the whole society, but we don't hear these disturbing signals from the profile committee and from the ministry. What should we talk about? It should be said that in the leading countries of the world, such as the Netherlands, the United States of America, studies have already been carried out that have found that the quality of education has dropped significantly in their countries, from 20 to 50 percent, but that is not done in Ukraine. It's a different situation. In these leading countries, there is a causal link between why quality of education is falling. It's also about retraining teachers, it's about not having a proper Internet connection, it's because there's no proper funding. So I think, if the President of Ukraine wants to be consistent on this issue, he needs to point out that the financing of education has been properly directed to finance rural areas where there is a lack of Internet, and that's what our party requires. We demand that enough money be channelled to support teachers and retrain them. Thus, a respected society, a healthy Ukraine, is also an educated Ukraine. So let us take care of both the future of schoolchildren and the future of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u25	Please check in with your motives if they are desirable. You don't? Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole. Is there no objection? None. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Act of Ukraine "To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine aimed at providing additional social and economic guarantees in connection with the spread of coronary disease (COVID-19)" (for specific issues of completion 2020/2021 of the academic year) (registration No. 5014). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:44:26]] For 295 Decision taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption as a whole with the necessary technical and legal rights. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:44:57]] For 298 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Statute of the Garrison and Watchkeeping Services of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the organization and conduct of military burial rituals (registration number 4636, 4636-1). I'm voting on the proposal to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[17:45:39]] For 309 Decision taken. Can we vote? We have two factions to discuss. I'm voting on a motion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:46:13]] For 267 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Iris Irina Vasilovna, is invited to attend. Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u26	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Today, before the Supreme Council's consideration, we are presenting a two-pronged bill, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Statute of the Garrison and Watchman Service of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The active Statute of the garrison and watchman services of the Armed Forces, to which these changes are proposed, is objectively outdated. And, indeed, adopted 20 years ago, he did not foresee a ceremony for the burial of military personnel with the honors they and their families deserve. The bill was commissioned by a team of the Ministry of Veterans in conjunction with the Institute of National Memory, then managed by our colleague Vladimir Vjatrović, and our colleague Irina Frez headed the Ministry. That's why we consider "European Solidarity" to be an obligation to bring this bill to the attention of the Supreme Council. I would like to point out that an alternative bill has been introduced to the Council, which some ministers known as plagiarism would envy. However, there are differences that make you think about who offered them and why. For example, the alternative provides that during a military burial ritual, a letter of respect and grief on behalf of the President of Ukraine to the relatives of the soldiers who died was passed away while protecting Ukraine’s independence and territorial integrity. Our bill also envisions the handover of such a letter to the relatives of the heroes of Ukraine, awarded by the Order of the Golden Star, the Knights of the Order of Bogdan Hmelnick and the cavalry of the Order of Courage. There are also obstacles and conditions to making such a ceremony impossible with the use of a special procedure burial, the assignment of the title "The Hero of Ukraine", which is awarded by the Orders of Bogdan Hmielnicki three degrees or Order "For Courage." So in our bill, we're still proposing a special procedure that does not require the above conditions. We understand that you want to go to the gains of the previous power, but any defender who has given his life for Ukraine must.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u27	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ostapenko Anatoly Dmitrovic. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u28	Good afternoon, presiding, distinguished colleagues! Thank you for one of the factions that also introduced the alternative bill. But I would like to point out that the differences in the organization of the military burial of our defenders are the following. The bill 4636-1 proposes the application of military burial rituals and funerals under special procedure of persons also assigned to the name Hero of Ukraine, awarded orders of Bogdan Hmelnicki three degrees or "For Courage" three degrees, only on condition that those persons also had the status of military personnel who died (dead) in the course of military service, the conduct of service; the death or death of members of hostilities that protected independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, had a direct share in the ATO/OC, persons with disabilities as a result of the war listed in sub-paragraphs 1, 11-14 parts of the two articles of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection; and military personnel who, by decision of the relevant State bodies, were assigned to international security forces or to international peace bodies. I therefore propose to adopt, as a basis, the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Statute of the Garrison and Guard Services of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the Military Burial ritual (4636-1). To be commissioned by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence, and Intelligence to work on the proposed bill, taking into account amendments and proposals by legal entities. Shorten the deadline for such amendments and proposals by half and submit them to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u29	Thank you. The word is given to the coreporter, the deputy head of the Committee on National Security, Defence, and Intelligence, Besugor Marianne Volodymyrni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u30	Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Statute of the Garrison and Watchkeeping Services of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the Military Burial ritual (registration No. 4636-1), submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine Ostapenko and other National Deputies. This bill is an alternative to the draft Ukrainian Code of Registration number 4636, and the purpose of the bill is to settle the issue of honouring the memory of dead (dead) military personnel and others by amending the Statute of the garrison and watchman service of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The draft Law of Ukraine proposes the application of a special procedure to persons who are assigned the name Hero of Ukraine, awarded by the Orders of Bogdan Hmelnicki three degrees, or by the Orders of Courage three degrees, only on condition that those persons also had the status of military personnel who died or died in the course of the duties of military service, the conduct of service, the death or death of members of the armed forces who defended independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, participated directly in the ATO/OOS, persons with disabilities as a result of war and military personnel who, by decision of the relevant State bodies, were assigned to participate in international peace and security operations or to the State where hostilities were conducted during this period, and the independence of the HK. The main scientific and scientific management has made only a number of observations to its content. Experts have noted that the alternative bill has some differences, including a more extensive list of individuals. The Ministry of Veterans Affairs and the Ministry of Defence fully supports this very version of the bill. So the committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Statute of the Garrison and Guard Services of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to be adopted on a basis by shortening the deadline for amendments and proposals by entities of the law of the legislative initiative by half. Heroes don't die!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u31	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u32	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Paul Bakunec, MP group "Trust", Lviv. There is a war going on in Ukraine. There's an aggressor in the east. And every day, unfortunately, we get sad news. The enemy is killing our heroes. But our defenders stand proud. Our defenders are the soldiers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, especially the legendary royal 24th Brigade, which celebrates the whole of Jaborovskaya, of Lvivščina and of our entire Ukraine. And today we need to talk to you not only about military rituals, we need to talk about the provision of our army, about the quality of food, because there are reports that they are not everywhere that they are already of good quality, about the modern quality of our military personnel's weapons, so that the boys in the East can protect us from the enemy, about quality housing for our military personnel and their families, so that they can live somewhere, not as they are now frozen, underfunded, underdeveloped dormitories, family-type houses, like in the 24th Brigade in a military town. They need to be upgraded. I appeal to you, Mr. Secretary of Defense, Mr. Prime Minister, to get the military personnel housing so that they don't disbelieve for thousands, hundreds of dollars, and not rent housing in cities, but have a place to live and provide for their families. Then they will be proud to protect you and all our Ukraine. Praise our heroes! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u33	The word is given to Stephanie. Yes, please. Kostenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u34	Dear colleagues, this bill is not about reducing tariffs or taxes, it's not about increasing wages, it's about important. In particular, this bill of respect, respect for military and patriotic men who gave their lives for our Fatherland. Our best sons and daughters must be buried with honor, and the state must ensure this. So we ask you to support this bill and support those who have given their lives for our nation. In particular, I would like to say to the pro-Russian forces who today said that he was not in time today. At 10:35 yesterday, our soldier was killed by a Russian sniper in the village of Shuma. Sniper, sent by Vladimir Putin, godfather of one of your party, to our country to fight against us. So I just want to tell you, go to the funeral of this soldier and find out if it's in time to support or not in the time of our soldiers who are giving their lives for our country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u35	Heroic glory! Dmitry's pet. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u36	Dear colleagues! Taras Batenko, MP Party for the Future. Of course, at the time, the support of the military, as in time, is certainly the support of our pensioners and all Ukrainian citizens who are affected by government action on tariff policy. But we don't want to fold into one painting, of course, these bills that are being passed today by the "people of the people" party on tariff policy, and this bill, which may seem irrelevant to some. While Russia as an aggressor is throwing weapons at the border, threatening to invade Ukraine, and we are losing military personnel, fighters under the terms of the so-called armistice, of course we should review, consider such bills as respect for the memory of our fighters, of the funeral procession. It's a very thin moral-ethic side, very thin matter. Because it is easy to say that it is necessary to take care of the living in a timely manner, so that, of course, we do not give honor to those who should be given due in due time when they were alive. Our parliamentary group "For the Future" supports the basic bill 4636 as a basis and as a whole, as one that spells out these positions more clearly and better formulated than an alternative bill. Please support him as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u37	Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u38	Dear colleagues, today the factions representing Russian interests in this Parliament have repeatedly allowed themselves to make ham claims about this bill. He said there was nothing more to Parliament than to consider the ritual of burying our defenders. These statements show the mental gap between Ukraine and the "Russian peace", where soldiers can be buried as dogs, or secretly as thieves, to be exported in refrigerators because "they're not there." The attitude toward the dead, and thus the people who died protecting Ukraine, is one of the markers of humanity and civil society. This bill on dignity and respect for the dead. Bill 4636 establishes a detailed and dignified ritual of burying soldiers and deals with all matters related to the organization of giving due honor to those who have died. I am grateful to all experts who have worked on this bill, especially the National Memory Institute. Thank you to all the co-authors of this bill. Regrettably, we have witnessed an inappropriate reception on the one hand when "ministers of the people" instead of supporting the quality bill of their colleagues register an alternative, which repeats more than 90 percent of the main content. Just to get a little bit of an extra bill from the ruling party. It is a cheap reception, set up in this call for a stream, that degrades Parliament and negatively affects the quality of the legislative process. "European solidarity" calls for at least respect for our dead not to play party games, but to support Bill 4636. And we urge you to honor the dead. We call for the support of the living soldiers, the living defenders of Ukraine, who now have our independence on their shoulders. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u39	Dear colleagues, motivated by Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u40	Dear colleagues, I would certainly urge you to support this bill. We must care for the lives of our military personnel and honor those who gave their lives for the defense of their state for its sovereignty. The only thing I would like to stress is that these issues should not be regulated by law. And the Supreme Council is burdened by making changes to the statute of garrison and watchman service. And by making an addition to that, because it's not our job with you, it can be regulated by a legal law. But if the Supreme Council has gone this way, I have a proposition: let's both approve on the basis, and on the whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u41	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee was based, but proposals were being made on the basis and in general. Is there no objection? Is there a denial? Two factions. No, I won't give my word. Two factions against? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Statute of the Garrison and Guard Services of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, on the organization and conduct of military burial rituals (registration No. 4636-1). Ready to vote? Ready? Please be supportive. Please be supportive. It's the committee's decision first. I would like to vote on the above proposal, please support and vote. [[18:04:06]] For 304 Decision taken. Thank you. Two factions against, repeat. Someone against it is smiling very much. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance" (for social protection in the event of temporary disability) (registration Nos. 5187, 5187-1). It is suggested that a decision be made to include the above-mentioned bill in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[18:04:59]] For 310 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[18:05:19]] For 265 The National Deputy of Ukraine Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u42	Dear colleagues, let's talk to you today about the construct. Very often in this room and in the media there are accusations of opposition that we are unconstructive. So on December 31st, 20th, the Ukrainian Rehabilitation Act entered into force. And he started a rehabilitation system in Ukraine, but at the same time he changed the law in a way that, as of July 1, 21, Ukraine would not be able to get hospitals. And that means that since July 1, 21, about two and a half million Ukrainians won't be receiving hospitals on a major insurance case. We've done very constructively, we've prepared a bill to correct this mistake. Without the pomp, without the criticism of the majority, without the criticism of the authorities, they went, arranged, and engaged the co-authors of all the totally factions, including the head of the profile committee. Thankfully, my colleagues at the Medical Committee supported our bill. Our bill not only corrects the mistake and pays the hospital bills, but also saves the hospital payments for rehabilitation, which was designed by the authors of another bill. And in total design, we were supported by a medical committee. But on the profile committee, we got a refusal. And this was argued by the so-called conflict of interest. It's not that you want to vote on my bill right now that hurts. It pains me that you don't think about people. That you will not be able to get a hospital to rehabilitate once the hospital has been paid. So, finally, put up a constructive approach and vote in favour of the basic bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u43	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatoliy Dmitrović, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u44	Yes, our Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights has passed an alternative bill that is in your attention. But it's known to be a committee of rights. On a medical committee, the Ministry of Health said that an alternative bill had not reached them, so they could not say which was better and which was worse, we would say. According to our bill, it is proposed to amend article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on Public Compulsory State Social Insurance to determine the right of insured persons to receive temporary disability assistance in the event of a disease or injury not associated with an accident in production. The adoption of the law will ensure the implementation of the right of citizens to social protection guaranteed by the Constitution, which includes, inter alia, ensuring them in the event of temporary loss of employment. Therefore, I would like to take the basis of a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain provisions of Ukraine's laws on compulsory social insurance and on rehabilitation in the area of health care in order to ensure the realization of the rights of insured persons, namely Bill 5187-1. And for any statement that we're doing plagiarism, I've already told my esteemed colleagues that we've got help, and we don't have any plagiarism, just a 10 percent coincidence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u45	Please, Galina Mikolayovna Tretyakova, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u46	Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Chairman, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council of Razumkova, the Committee on Social Policy on March 31, discussed the bill. The bill, registration number 5187, proposes to amend article 22 of the Ukrainian National Social Insurance Act. Unlike this legislative initiative, Bill 5187-1 proposes to re-establish the previous active edition of section 1 of article 22 of the Ukrainian law. Both bills need to be clarified and put into effect. The title of Bill 5187 needs to be clarified, as the changes are only made to article 22 of the Ukrainian Act on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance. With regard to Bill 5187-1, attention is drawn to the impossibility of making changes to Chapter V of the Act on Rehabilitation in the Health Sector, since, in accordance with part six of Article 90 of the Rules, changes are made to the original law and not to the Act on Amendments to this Legislative Act. Don't scream, please. At the same time, if it is adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis for the first reading, this observation will be settled in the preparation of the bill for the second reading. During the committee's discussion of these bills, various opinions were heard about their implementation, but most of the Ukrainian national deputies, members of our committee, consider Bill 5187-1 to be more balanced. The central authorities of the executive branch feel the same way. The proposal to accept as a basis for the first reading of the bill was not supported by registration number 5187. Thus, according to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights, Bill 5187-1 recommends that the draft be adopted on a basis and that the deadlines for the second reading be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u47	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Kisse Anton Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u48	I'd like to give the floor to my colleague, Speedhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u49	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u50	Dear colleagues, you know, we work very strangely with you. We first adopt laws and then create new laws to correct previous and adopted laws. Of course, the "For the Future" MP group supports the initiative in the first reading. We see, and we have a lot of colleagues coming out of the rostrum, and the previous introductory session has shown that everything given by an unconquered faction is not something that is not considered or accepted or even taken into account. If you can't or can't write bills and plagiarism, let's maybe set up some joint legal group that's going to develop joint bills. Because I just don't understand why you're not so capable and you just keep taking something, you copy it, and then you represent: Tier 1 or Tier 2. Once again, of course, we support this bill, because it's very important because people don't have to lose their right to a hospital and they have to get social insurance on hospital payments for periods of incapacity. The parliamentary group "For the Future" is voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u51	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u52	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u53	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u54	The Green Age is an age of absurdity. Dear Ukrainians, do you wonder how the majority could have appointed plagiar Scarlet Minister of Education? So the ideology of this party is plagiarism. Today, two laws are being voted out, which are being stolen from European Solidarity. The idea of the majority that no law can be passed here, the authors of which are Poroshenko, Viatrowich, Friz, Jujanina, Heraszczenko, Klimpush-Cincadze, so as not to Prashenko. And now the head of the committee says from the rostrum that the alternative needs work, and the main law is normal, you can accept it in general and give it to people in the hospital. But you can't, because the authors are European Solidarity. Ukrainians, remember this last name: Anatoly Ostapenko is the next Scarlett who presented plagiarism here today. You see, bills have been stolen, copied by 99 percent. Remember, you "servants" don't know names, so to all the "dog sellers" and others, Anatoly Ostapenko is a plagiarist, the next Scarlet who teaches kids at school to steal bills, copy and present as their own. And we're actually correcting the mistakes right now because the "servants" want to leave people without hospitals today, and the hospital debt has already reached from one to three months, the debt -- more than 20 percent of the fund, no money to pay hospital and specific holidays. That's what the "servants" were all about. But do you think that bothers them? No, the main thing, not Dusty, is their ideology. Guys, we're gonna fix your mistakes. Please believe me, not just with the hospitals.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u55	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u56	Sobolje, Fatherland. Colleagues, I ask you to stop all emotion and understand, if the basic law is not passed, only 33,000 out of 2.5 million will be hospitalized. Don't play the alternative here. What's more, my proposal, I've analyzed legislatively what I've done to prepare the committee. Mrs. Galina, you co-authored the first bill, it's absolutely right. But the Ostapenko bill is also correct, it clears this rule, my position, then on the second reading, we won't be able to change the 22 articles, because it's not the subject of this bill. Both are not alternatives to vote. One bill regulates this by renewing the article under which all factions were signed, 22 and the second bill clears this rule in the Transitional Positions. There can be no norm apart from the previous. So my proposal is to vote on both bills. As a result, the 22 articles will be in a new edition, because we will not then fix them, and we will throw out the Transitional Positions. All right, dot. And this is the only way out. We cannot consider alternative bills because they regulate other articles of the law. So please stop dragging the ropes, who signed all the factions under the first bill. My colleague Ostapenko delivered another plus "transitional," let's clean this up, and then there'll be a definite rule that settles this issue. And people from the first number, in two months, will be receiving hospitals, not without them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u57	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u58	Dear colleagues, this is certainly a necessary bill, because in fact it has led to the fact that for almost three or four months people have not received hospitals. We will certainly be in favour of the first bill, because it is more in our opinion that it reflects the need and the return of the social guarantees that were in the population. If we don't vote for the first bill, we're going to have to support the second one and work on the second reading. But what I want to tell you is that the question of not paying the hospital bills is just the tip of an iceberg. Because, unfortunately, our country is in a situation where the economic crisis of the fall will take place in the spring. We already have some regions, some social protections don't pay either benefits or subsidies, we have a $7.5 billion debt to the Pension Fund, we don't get the benefits -- almost 26 percent. When the budget is closed, it's not clear. Here's the question. We'll return as a legislative body of benefits and hospitals. Please tell me, do you have money to pay for hospitals, pensions, subsidies and numerous complaints that are already coming from the areas of non-payment of benefits and social security? I also want to tell you that we said that the budget is not actually balanced and it will somehow lead to an economic crisis and a lack of money. We already have it. Since privatization, 3.6 billion has been drawn, 1 billion in the first quarter. We have a lack of fulfillment in many income articles. So I ask you, colleagues, to pay attention not only to the return of the social security rights of our citizens, but also to the physical payment of these social guarantees in place. Because, unfortunately, it's good to get the hospital back on paper, but it's good to give it back to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u59	The motive is Shahov. After that, Galina Mikolayevna Trelyakova. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u60	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Respectful colleagues certainly need to be supported by both laws, and people need social security, social medicine, protection of the population, child protection, and social insurance. It was rightly pointed out here today that where the authorities would take the money. In the budget of the Pension Fund, where today 200 billion dollars are undernourished, and the territory of the Luhansk and Donetsk regions has not received more than 100 billion dollars. Again, where is the responsibility, where is the conscience, where is justice, where are the social guarantees that the Constitution guarantees today? We can vote on a hundred bills, but people have to feel warm, see that the authorities are treating them right now and are working not for the destruction of the state or for today's "admissions" but for the sake of today's construction of Ukraine. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u61	It's a motive. Galina Mikolayevna. Galina Mikolayevna Trelyyakowa
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u62	Dear National MPs, indeed, the bill is the main one, it closes the problem of payments to the hospital after the rehabilitation and after the acute illness, and I am co-author of this bill. An alternative bill, as I said as head of the committee, when I reported, I reported, not as the author of the bill, but as a committee. And the committee's decision was to support an alternative because there's no rehabilitation hospital there, and it's going back to the situation that was before the adoption of the Rehabilitation Act. And according to the central executives, he's more balanced, which is what Mrs. Julia from Voice was talking about. So I will personally support the basic bill, but the hall will make the decision as it pleases. I would like to propose a total vote of 5,187.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u63	One minute, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, a moment of attention, please. As for the bills, registration numbers 5187, 5187-1. Please listen to me. This is important. The question today is the following. The bill is important, and as the committee says, and all the national MPs agree, it is important to accept it immediately as a basis and as a whole, because there is no time for that right now. If we follow the committee's decision and vote in favour of 5,187, we'll have to go to second reading. Wait, don't break up, please! Then we'll have to go to the second reading. If Bill 5187 is supported by the Supreme Council, then. Is it my understanding that all factions are willing to support the whole as well? So we're voting today, and actually on Thursday, I can sign it and send it to the President for signature. Understand? But according to the Rules, I'm going to put the committee's decision first anyway, and then we're going to the main vote. No notes? [[B in m in s a l in]] None. Can we vote? Thank you. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the bill (registration number 5187-1). Please identify and vote. [[18:29:05]] For-12. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Public Compulsory State Social Insurance (on social protection in the event of temporary disability) (registration No. 5187). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:29:47]] For 304 Decision taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption as a whole with the necessary technical and legal rights. We're voting in general, with technical remedies, 5187. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:30:25]] For 304 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending Chapter IV of the Final and Transitional Provisions Act of Ukraine on Consumer Credit (for loans granted in foreign currency) (Registration No. 4475). Dear colleagues, may we vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending Chapter IV of the Law on Consumer Credit (Registration No. 4475). Please support and vote. [[18:31:19]] For 273 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next question is bill registration number 4398, as well as second reading. We can vote now, right? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the restructuring of foreign currency loans and the adaptation of the insolvency procedures of natural persons (registration No. 4398). Please support and vote. [[18:32:09]] For 272 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next question we can also, yes, vote without rights? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (restructuring foreign exchange liabilities and adapting insolvency procedures) (registration No. 4399). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:32:52]] For 269 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. [[Applause]] These are important bills, I think people support them. Thank you. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences to prevent the spread of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2 (registration number 4540). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[18:33:43]] For 256 Decision taken. Vice - Minister of Health Láško Viktor Kirilović is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u64	Good afternoon, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! The spread of coronary disease in Ukraine has revealed the problem when the legislative arrangements for self - isolation or observation are not followed or not followed by everyone. This leads to the spread of infectious diseases, especially dangerous infectious diseases, to which we also refer. Self - isolation is designed to prevent the spread of particularly dangerous diseases, as well as to reduce the number of patients with severe crossovers. In order to counter the spread of COVID to date, a self-insulation monitoring service such as the "Do Home" electronic service of a single state web portal for electronic services has been done in quarantine. According to the One State Register of Judgments during the Coroner’s Epidemic of Coronary Disease, 6,000 480 cases of self - isolation have been dealt with by the courts. At the same time, we know that the courts are overloaded. As a result of a lengthy hearing of cases, there is no real punishment for self - isolation violations, and the trial itself contributes to a large pool of people in a closed room, which may be the basis for the spread of infectious diseases. In doing so, law enforcement authorities and local self - government authorities are deprived of the real ability to resist the numerous violations associated with self - isolation. Thus, the law provides for the possibility of administrative responsibility for violations of the self-insulation and observation procedures set out in the quarantine decision and a fine of between 200 and 500 untaxed minimums, 3400 or 8,500 dollars of citizens’ income, which will ensure the proportionality of liability to the majority of the population. In addition, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u65	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the committee on law enforcement activities of the Monastery’s Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u66	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm here first of all to look to my colleagues for the majority, my colleagues for the opposition, and my citizens for the Ukraine. Yeah, we're looking at a bill first of all on increasing responsibility, establishing responsibility for violations of self-sustainment rules. Yes, I can say that a committee of profile, a committee on law enforcement, has not seen the need to pass this bill and vote it since the registration. You can see that since the registration, it's been a long time. But we see now that there is no other way to adopt this bill here and now as the committee proposes. And I'm offering it as a whole. Why? Because right now, literally, the main health care doctor said the figures, the numbers in my home district, the violations of people who are really sick with the confirmed coronavirus and who go to work despite all the warnings -- that's unfortunately one of the main reasons why the coronavirus spreads in the country. So, of course, this law is primarily preventive so that people who have confirmed COVID are kept and treated at home instead of going to work. We're not expecting thousands of fines, we're waiting for the main thing to overcome this frenzy of the coronavirus pandemic. Yeah, it's not a major tool for fighting, we both have a profile committee, so we all have a lot of questions for both the profile ministry and everyone who's struggling with the coronavirus pandemic, including the decision of the government as a whole. But this bill is one of the steps that we need to support in order for people who are really sick to sit at home. Please support this bill on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u67	Dear colleagues, please register: two for, two for, and two for the factions. Is there a need for discussion? Please sign in. Polack Vladislav Mikolajovich. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u68	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, it is now very much considered a good tone during discussions with citizens, with representatives of the public to call for human rights, to fulfil them. And when we start talking about that our rules of coexistence, our basics of law that are often violated by citizens, they need certain penalties or restraining sanctions. And we're told again, well, how, when we go to Europe and so on, and we have to limit some of the citizens' rights now, impose fines on them and so forth? I want you to go back to such an interesting picture of the beginning of quarantine. Remember when a delegation returned from the country where they were resting, and at one of Kiev’s hotels, they were placed for observation, or quarantine, for a period of time. And as on that very night, a part of the citizens with their suitcases were so successful in leaving the room. And then they talked about, well, how they closed us down, they restricted us to some kind of right. And what they might have brought to the country of disease and spread and put other citizens in danger is no matter what. Let's take this bill. Let us call for all together to be responsible for the security of the state, including the safety of our citizens. That's what this bill is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u69	Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u70	Please pass the word to Mikhail Raducci.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u71	Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u72	Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we are discussing a very interesting matter today. The fact is that one person who violates the rules of self - isolation and observation puts at least 10 people at risk of infection. And that's the problem. The problem is that today, when one of you says you don't have to do this, he's going to come to a nice Kiev hospital, or, God forbid, to some other little hospital and see if there's enough space. Today, in the Kyiv hospitals, the venerable, busy halls are already occupied, the halls are already occupied. We are now losing 400 lives of Ukrainians a day. So today, only hard quarantine, only strict rules of self-isolation. Only strict social distance rules can stop this pandemic. So I'm very much asking my colleagues to step away from the idea of who's in this room, who's the opposition, who's the majority, who's in power. And today we need to support Ukraine, support the fight against the pandemic. I'd like to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u73	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u74	Ustenova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u75	Ustenova Alexander Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u76	Dear colleagues, you know, now that I've heard about the fact that we have a crowded hospital and there's nowhere else to go, I understand that we are now translating problems from a sick head to a healthy one. We have hospitals full now because we have a failed vaccine and because those people we could save today are being buried. And I'll tell you that we have hospitals full, because the MOH has done nothing in its own time to prepare these hospitals. Just a few days ago, the first order came out for the purchase of oxygen concentrates. I'm sorry, but you're now translating into people what failed the MOH and failed the government. Now you want people to be fined. We're turning into a country of fines and defeats. I'm hearing now that we're being told that they're going to be bringing people into the Dee. I remember on the committee asking the Deputy Minister of Health how it would work. Who's going to put a man in "Dia"? They said they couldn't answer that question. And now you're going to propose to us in the first and in the whole vote. I'm sorry, but how are grandmas with button phones going to be brought into action? Who will bring them there? Who will control them? Will the state provide smartphones for all of us tomorrow that are actually going to make them register in "Action"? I remember imposing fines of 17,000 dollars for people walking the streets while quarantined. And then, I'll tell you, I took the liberty of looking at the courts, like grandmothers who traded greens under the A.T.A.B. were going to court to get a fine of 17,000 dollars. We're now turning the country into a country instead of a country that's struggling with the coronavirus, a country that's struggling, into a country where people have to pay for everything. You remember when we had 11 police men in our pants. So right now we're going to have 11 cops who are going to take a test, catch it, because it's not logged in because it's got a button on it. Is this bill necessary? Yes, but it needs to be worked out. You can't just force people to pay fines now because the state didn't do its job. And the next. You all put in fines for not wearing masks. Right now, every single one of you sitting without a mask has to pay for it, and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u77	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u78	Please pass the word to Dmitri Lubinci.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u79	Please, Lubinec Dmitry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u80	Your Honor, honourable national deputies, I will, with the permission of all, take off the mask, and if necessary, I will pay the fine. Dear colleagues, in fact, what's happening in the state with the distribution of coronavirus, we have to react, including through the change of legislation. But can we solve this by further imposing fines of 3,000 400 to 8 thousand 500 on people who have breached quarantine? For example, the previous speaker said about Grandma with buttoned - up phones, and I can give other examples, such as the Mayor who represents the rural area. Parents are very often ill, there are no children, no grandchildren, and there is no need to sit at home. Who's gonna go to the store? We have to sit at home. Is it going to be $8,500,000? And we have the right to impose these administrative protocols on local councils now. Next. Did we make sure that people who felt sick came to them and tested them? No, it's not. So how do you tell the difference then, the person went to protest, got a positive test, went home, what did he do? After vaccination, according to doctors, the supply of drugs is a hundred percent failure of the Ministry of Health. And instead of discussing it here, we have a tradition: every Friday we call Minister Stephen here, he tells us something, and nothing changes. This may need to start instead of imposing additional fines on people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u81	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? "Trust" was speaking, your colleagues were already there. Sobolev – with motives and Honcharenko – then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u82	Dear Mr. Head! Fatherland, Sobolev. I'm talking to you, and our meeting today is legal? Whom will we fine for our meeting in the red zone? Colleagues, if the state cannot provide a test, it imposes fines. Mr. Easy, if you can't get a home test, do you want fines? Who are the fines? In Kiev, you can pass a test in six hours in Borispol. How are you going to pass a test in the village? And 14 days a man will be in quarantine, God forbid, going out for a test, will you fine him? Don't replace your failures with fines, it'll end badly. Our faction will not vote for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u83	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u84	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I have news for Zelensky and for the "ministers of the people": COVID-19 is not fined, COVID-19 is not populism. Just a year ago, Greensky told us he was going to give a million dollars to the Ukrainians who were going to develop the vaccine. Where's the Ukrainian vaccine? In the summer, we were told that Ukraine would be one of the first countries where vaccination would begin, buying a vaccine. Where's the vaccine? We were the worst, today's worst per capita testing in Europe. We are third from the end in Europe by the number of vaccinations per capita. We have 10,000 vaccines again yesterday. At this rate it will take 10 years to inoculate Ukrainians. And what do you suggest? Another fine for the Ukrainians. You need fines and you're being chased by a bad broom because you've completely failed the fight against COVID and you've thrown people on your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u85	All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Prevention of the Spreading of Acute Respiratory Disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2 (Registration No. 4540). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[18:50:24]] For 199 The decision is not taken. I am voting for a motion to refer to the Committee for the preparation of a re-reading of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences to prevent the spread of COVID-19 acute respiratory disease caused by SARS-COV-2 (registration number 4540). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:51:04]] For 217 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to redraft Bill No. 4540. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:51:35]] For 215 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2021 on the introduction of financial and credit insurance mechanisms for Ukrainian citizens with housing (registration number 5308). It is proposed to vote and include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[18:52:20]] For 273 It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[18:52:40]] For 249 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Oblivious Lesia Valentinovna, is invited to attend. Give me four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u86	Thank you. Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich! Dear national MPs, Ukrainians! Today, more than 650,000 families live in housing. Some one and a half million migrants from Crimea and Donbas are also expected to support the nation. The purpose of the bill 5308 proposed to you is to create the necessary conditions for the proper implementation of the "Available mortgage" programme initiated by the President of Ukraine and the legislative basis for the integration of the state mortgage facility into the private stockholder company "Ukrfinzitlo" and to ensure the functioning of the mortgage lending market, the introduction of financial and credit mechanisms for providing citizens with housing. The bill foresees that Minfin should issue DDPs within the limits defined by law, the volume of further acquisition into state property in exchange for such bonds of additional shares of the “Ukrafinzitla” issue to provide housing for citizens and to address the financial and economic activities of the company in connection with the accession to the State Mortgage Institution. So far, the activity of a government mortgage institution has been devastating. The adoption of this bill will allow for the continuation of existing state programmes and, according to an expert estimate, the implementation of these measures will allow, in the short term, approximately 8,000 mortgage loans to be granted to purchase housing and to purchase 12,000 apartments for further transfer to financial leasing. On April 8, the Budget Committee reviewed Bill 5308 and concluded with detailed information. Overall, implementation of the bill will not require additional public budget expenditure in the current year and will not lead to an increase in the government budget deficit. The main science-expert agency makes some comments, but in general it does not deny the possibility of making any changes. The Ministry of Finance supports the bill. On the basis of the review and taking into account the importance of implementing the “Available mortgage” programme, the Committee on Budget Affairs recommends to the Supreme Council Bill 5308 to include in the agenda of the daily session and the results of the first reading to be adopted as a basis and generally as a law with the necessary editorial and technical legal rights. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u87	Thank you. Needed Discussion? Please sign up: two for, two for, two for, three for factions. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u88	Please give it to Taras Ivanovich Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u89	Taras Ivanovich Batenko. No, dear fellows. No, it's not. Batenko or.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u90	I will briefly say that our parliamentary group supports the changes to the Ukrainian State Budget for 2021 with regard to the introduction of financial and credit mechanisms for providing Ukrainian citizens with housing. But our parliamentary group only supports this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u91	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. The great Sergey. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u92	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". We will certainly support this bill. And it's the most important thing today for the homeless, the displaced, who have stayed in this territory, and have come to the peaceful Ukraine, which is now receiving 400 dollars and 800 dollars of donations from the state. Please tell me, when the Georgians were building housing for refugees, they were selling this apartment? No, it's not. That is why the state must care for Ukrainians who have moved to a peaceful Ukraine. And there's a million, 700,000 people. Please tell me, if the state were building, wouldn't Kabmin be robbing? Tell me, would there be a war in the hands of officials? They'd think about how to work. Today, of course, the Ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, must address the situation in the Luhansk region of the city of Kremenna. Where Governor Haidey bought a house that was mixed up in Facebook for a million dollars and bought it for 8 million dollars, and it's still not built. The city of Rubižne, the 9-story house, it's already spent 60 million dollars, it's been criminalized, it's not logically completed, it's not inhabited. Will this money be stolen, for which we are voting today for a change in the budget? Every penny is carefully checked by officials who rob the state today, and it is worth planting on the benches, under the lava, so that they know what it is to be in the homes of others today, to be in trouble in sports halls, and to be homeless in the dormitories. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u93	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u94	Dear colleagues, this is a technical bill. And of course, we will support him, and we hope that the committee will work on him. But I would like to point out that, with technical changes, we have a big problem -- this is the absence of actually a mortgage in Ukraine. Perhaps the best example is to look at the countries that are next to us. 25 per cent of GDP is mortgaged in the Czech Republic, and in Poland, 20 per cent of GDP in Ukraine is 0.7 per cent. These are real figures on how affordable housing is, other properties, including for young families who want to borrow credit. Why do we have such a problem? Because unlike those countries that I listed, unlike European countries, the average mortgage rate in Ukraine is almost 17 percent. Do you think a lot of loans will be taken by young people especially when they have a 17 percent mortgage on a new apartment? 82 percent of all mortgage loans are secondary real estate. This is also a major problem. Therefore, fellow believers, this law is, of course, supported. Like I said, he's technical. But every vote we vote, every wish we get to like it at the same time, should be tested to see if we're making credits for our people cheaper. Today, in my opinion, some decisions have been made that do not. Let's concentrate now and make sure that young people, young families, really get cheap loans and can live in their own apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u95	Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u96	Goncharenko. Please hand over the potterenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u97	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u98	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, whether it is a matter of giving us a mortgage to build housing. Very important, there is no doubt about it. But I have a simple question for you. In fact, we're going to be asked to increase the amount of government debt by 20 billion dollars and send them to do so. And tell me, please, what is the most urgent need in the state today? Is this a mortgage facility? Or vaccines that don't exist? And when we talk about the economy today, about the taxes, please tell me where the economy is more likely to recover, in Israel, where over 50 percent is vaccinated, in the United States, where 50 percent is in the Kingdom of Bhutan, where 60 percent or in Ukraine, where three people are completely vaccinated? Not 300, not 30 - 3. They say it's 5 o'clock. Well, at this rate, friends, of course, maybe 10 years from now, we'll have 100 people -- a complete disaster. And that means that there will be no economic growth. There will be no restoration, there will be nothing. Or perhaps an important topic is that today, face-to-face with an enemy who transports technology and troops to our borders by echelons, our soldiers are two years old and the Greens and the People's Servants don't raise their wages. Two years. News on the White House website: Joseph Biden called Putina and said he supported Ukraine. Thank you for Joseph Byden's administration. But our main calculation is our Armed Forces. When will we feed them? When are we going to be a state defense order to carry out? Last year, it was ruined. In April of the 21st year, it's still not accepted. So maybe first we can fight the pandemic, fight the aggressor, and if we do that, we can move on, because there are a lot of issues in the country? We will not vote in this way, because there are major challenges, but there are secondary challenges.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u99	All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, the committee is also offering a foundation. Three factions against. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 on the introduction of financial and credit mechanisms for providing housing for citizens of Ukraine (registration No. 5308). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:04:02]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. The next issue of agenda is the draft Decision repealing the Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30 March 2021 on the adoption as a whole of the Ukrainian Law on the Privatisation of Large Privatisation of Objects of Privatisation (Registration No. 4543-P). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[19:04:59]] For-147 Congratulations, dear colleagues, we are considering this issue in full procedure. Thank you all. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u100	Sergey the Great, Lugansk. Dear colleagues, so far no one has calculated the damage caused by the so-called privatization of the industrial potential of Ukraine, which ended almost entirely in the destruction of the state sector of the economy. From this rostrum Sergey Shahov has repeatedly addressed and said that full inventory should be carried out, complete with the audit of privatized enterprises. But it's not done yet. However, the trend toward the destruction of state - owned enterprises has been maintained. Today, not only the Ukrainian economy but also the world economy suffers greatly from the spread of COVID. All of this can lead to a decrease in investors’ interest in our businesses, as well as a decrease in their value as a result of small demand. In addition, the transfer of public enterprises into private hands does not always lead to investment and development. We have dozens of examples of investors using acquired state property for their own purposes. Millions of credits were taken, companies were then artificially bankrupted and factories were sawn out. Regular people who lose their jobs and livelihoods are losing out on this, which is extremely frightening at this time of unforgivableness. There are many such examples. In the district of Alexander Sukhova, there was a glass factory that belonged to the State and made hundreds of millions of profits. After the rental of the factory complex into private hands for two years, it became a complete bankruptcy, and all the equipment was cut. I have a company called Ucrobronprom in the district of Rubizne. But in fact, private investors took both land and equipment for cash and left only millions of debts at the state firm. Examples in Ukraine: A closed car factory; a sugar industry in central Ukraine -- used to produce the most sugar in Europe, now nothing practical. The Lviv car factory. It is worth mentioning that the car repair plant, including the Paznian, the Daneprovsky, and others, still has a lot to offer. Therefore, I now propose that we cancel the approved decision, work out the idea, and put it into practice in a more timely and wise manner. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u101	Dear colleagues, I have some good news for you. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the decree will be reviewed by a reduced procedure in accordance with article 148 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich Calchenko, head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u102	The Honourable Presidium, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting, reviewed the draft Decree (Registrational 4543-P) on the lifting of the Supreme Council's decision of 30 March on the adoption as a whole of the Ukrainian Act amending Chapter V of the Act on State and Municipal Privatization. The Committee noted that the Grand Chamber of the People had submitted this draft decision to Parliament without the prior application of the chairman of the plenary and to the Head of the Supreme Council for a violation established by the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the procedure for reviewing and voting the draft Law was 4543, as was required by the provisions of part three and fifth of article 48 of the Rules of the Supreme Council. So, in summary, the regulatory committee adopted the conclusion of the 4543-P bill and decided to propose to the Supreme Council a vote on the adoption or rejection of the draft regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u103	Dear colleagues, is there an offer, on pleasures, perhaps without discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] You see how. Dear colleagues, come on, Julia Volodymyrna is a minute from motive, and we're going to vote. Then please sign up: two for, two for, two for, three for, two for factions. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u104	Galini Vasilchenko's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u105	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u106	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. You know, clearly, Ukraine needs privatization in order for the economy to develop properly. And last year, the suspension of such decisions was completely pointless, just as it was inappropriate to make many misunderstandings, such as what happened to entrepreneurs about the bills we adopted last year. What is it? As the Supreme Council, we have done everything we can to enable the authorities of local self-government to free small businesses from the payment of a single tax. The authorities of local self - government did so. And you know what she did in taxes: she's charging them now for all those months for which they have to be freed from the payment of a single tax. It is my appeal to the minister of finance, to a large extent, to settle this issue as quickly as possible, and entrepreneurs, small businesses, could develop rather than suffer quarantine and thus burden them with totally unfounded and illegal debts. And we will not vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u107	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u108	Eutushka, Fatherland. Please pass the word to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u109	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u110	Now I want to talk to everyone who's still watching the "Race" channel. The point is that not only during the Lokdown is agricultural land sold out during the war, in the course of total economic destruction, there is also one of the first laws that was passed in this Parliament by the President, it is to lift all restrictions on the sale of Ukrainian strategic property. You know, this is the fifth-column parliament of Ukrainian salesmen. I don't know any country in the world that doesn't have state property strategically as a factor in protecting Ukraine, protecting the country, a factor in national security. Ukraine will be the first to sell everything to the right and to the left. If you have doubts, open the holding facility site and see that there are 120 research facilities that are now being sold as pieces of land. Ukraine is simply set up for sale thoughtlessly, powerless and not stately entirely. The point is that strategic ownership is gas pipelines, oil pipelines, railways, Krašta and much more, mining companies of gas, oil, Ukraine are needed to protect our present and future in order to enable the Ukrainian nation to be strong in geopolitical space. And now, during the lockdown, the question of stopping the brainless sale of Ukrainian strategic property will be ignored as well. We will vote in favour of this decree as Fatherland in order to end privatization at this difficult time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u111	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u112	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, today we are considering a very important document. And on more than one occasion, I said that the "admission" that took place in Ukraine was criminal. And I demanded that the Kabmin and the authorities today, most of the time, do an audit of all the enterprises that were "adopted," destroyed, destroyed, unbalanced in any city, there are no masters who bought. For example, Lysicansksodda, RTI, Adoration. Today, these businesses are completely dispossessed, unbalanced in a barbaric way. Ecology and technological disaster are not only in the Luhansk region, but even in Kiev, when the Sputnik plant is standing, and 200 tons of mercury is in the factory, and no one knows what's going on. So first, you have to do the audit of all businesses, find out who's responsible, balance the state's destroyed enterprises, recycle that land, and then report to the people you want to sell. "Defense" per penny, for 3 million 600. For 3 billion 600 million dollars, when trillions are needed in the budget, please tell me? Start making money, not robbing. Start building sewing factories, make masks, sell them abroad. Make your vaccines - sell abroad. How we buy this vaccine for billions of taxpayers today. Buy and do tests today – sell them abroad, make money, and build businesses. It is not priceless to sell out the state today, as you are now practically throwing your mother on the sidelines.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u113	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u114	Please pass the word to your colleague Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u115	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u116	As soon as the fellow Ukrainians asked questions about the annulment of the decision of the so - called privatization, they were inseparable. It seems to me that even if we now wanted to vote in favour of, well, imagine such a story, the "ministers of the people" had changed their minds and wanted to vote not to sell Ukrainian property for nothing, not privatize the "Ucroborprom," not privatize the six skyscrapers, the Dnipro Hotel. Dnipro's already been sold, now there's the President's Hotel. So let's imagine this situation. I can't really imagine. That's why there's no people in the room. But, unfortunately, that's what it is. Ms. Jula said that privatization in our country is now being done thoughtlessly and without the ability to do so. I don't think so. Someone in one bank office is sitting there, and it's very clear that assets during a coronary disease and pandemic have fallen, that the land is now priceless, and that right now we have to buy what's left of the big building affair called the Big Building. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that this room will hardly have the required number of votes to stand up and vote for Ukrainian land to remain Ukrainian and Ukrainian state entrepreneurs to remain in the same position at least until the pandemic is over. But I believe that the next call of the Supreme Council to come will cancel this decision. And I very much hope that it will be a decision in six months, because long Ukrainians will not tolerate you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u117	All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Ah, Kubi Stepan Ivanovich. Please, for a minute, for reasons, then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u118	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we will support this decision. I want to continue the lecture on what the previous speakers have said that the experience of the developed countries shows that this process cannot be fast, normative regulation of this process must be complete, the guarantee of legality must be prepared in every single situation. For example. Energy, 2018: profit 5 billion, 2020: loss minus 4.8 billion. Centrenerego, 2018 is the profit plus 499 million dollars, 2019 is the loss of almost 2 billion. This will be done through privatization. And secondly, the goal of bringing these companies to international markets is correct, but there is no clear and well-founded strategy for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u119	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole of the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30 March 2021 on the adoption, as a whole, of the Ukrainian Act amending Chapter V of the Act on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property on Privatization of Objects of Great Privatization (Registration No. 4543-P). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[19:20:10]] For-49 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending section X, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Transition and Ending of Education, on the Development of Opportunities for the Transformation of the Education Network and the Protection of the Rights of Participants in the Education Process. There is an offer without discussion. I'm voting on the proposal to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[19:21:03]] For 267 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee recommends the adoption of this law as a whole. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to Section XX, paragraph 3, of the Act on Transitional and Final Provisions of Ukraine on Total General Secondary Education for the Expansion of Opportunities for the Transformation of the Educational Network and the Protection of the Rights of Participants in the Education Process (Registration No. 5138-1). Please support and vote. [[19:21:52]] For 273 Decision taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption as a whole with the necessary technical and legal rights. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:22:23]] For 276 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving defence planning procedures (registration number 4210). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:23:02]] For 225 Decision taken. Deputy Defence Minister Here Yuliy Pavlovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u120	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable national deputies, draft Law registration number 4210 developed by the Ministry for the purpose of improving defence planning procedures at the legislative level, taking into account the experience of NATO member states and the European Union. It is envisaged to clarify the provisions of Ukraine's laws on security of Ukraine and on defence of Ukraine in part concerning the optimization of planning processes in the areas of security and defence, namely the content of the defence review and its purpose, the improvement of defence planning procedures, the census and the content of defence planning documents. The defence review, which took place at the end of 2019, also suggests that the content of defence planning documents, such as the military security strategy and the strategic defence bulletins, should be specified. The implementation of the draft law does not require additional costs from the budget. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u121	The Deputy Head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, Besugal Marian Volodymyryn, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u122	Your opinion is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to amend some of Ukraine’s laws on improving defence planning procedures (registration number 4210). The bill is designed to introduce an integrated approach and optimize planning processes in the area of national security and defence, to improve defence planning procedures taking into account the experience of NATO member States and Member States of the European Union, and to ensure the implementation of the priorities of government activities set out in the Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action, approved by Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decision No. 471 of 12 June 2020. Nevertheless, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration examined it. According to the analysis of the bill, a number of observations were made regarding its contents. Also during the discussion of the committee, it was concluded that we needed a more complex solution to improve defence planning. Therefore, taking into account the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of the Committee's consideration, the decision was adopted: recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to return the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving defence planning procedures for re-reading. Colleagues, in exchange for this bill, we're going to be preparing changes to actual legislation that will actually improve defence planning processes and bring us closer to how it works in the member states of the alliance. And it will also finally be a chance to delimit the terms of office of the Commander-in-Chief, the Minister of Defence and the Commander-in-Chief of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u123	Dear colleagues, the bill is coming on. No, three factions. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u124	Please pass the word to Michael Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u125	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u126	Dear colleagues, proposed by Kabmin, try once again to present us as improvements in defence planning procedures. Instead, what do we see in this bill? Only defamation of the concepts already laid down in the National Security Act and the Ukrainian Defence Act. It is well known that the adaptation of national legislation to the requirements of the EU and NATO member states begins primarily with the rule of law principle, not with the blurry of concepts, only to place a branch in the implementation of our committee's recommendations. Unfortunately, the proposals put forward in this bill have nothing to do with improving the defence sector of the state and reforming it. But I want to say more today than that. The point is, the Ministry of Defense doesn't seem to have any more problems that need to be addressed urgently. There is no POPs for this year, which still can't get on the committee and go to work. At the end of the line, we're going to buy a hundred-millimeter anti-tank rifle MT-12. He's been repressing legal acts that should be implemented by the Law on the Defense of Purchasing, which we have adopted, especially in the new edition. But in fact, life is even closer to us than it seems. Which was pointed out by the Commander in Chief when he visited the collision line. Today’s example. It's a collision line. Enemy drone in impact. The rare case where he was seen visually. There would have been an electronic gun that had been purchased in the past year, but not in the military, and today there could have been at least one soldier's life saved and there would have been no other wounded. The law, so-called "schroeder law," proposes to support the committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u127	Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u128	Sergei Ivanovich Rahmanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u129	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u130	Dear colleagues, we are reminded every day that war is at stake. It's not really finished yet. And it's not surprising that the only person who I think has forgotten that we have a war in our country is a minister of defense. Do not be misled by the title of this bill. It's not about defense planning, it's not about improving it. It's an attempt to write a philosophical tract based on a comic book. And if the secretary of defense has a point of view, let him do it in his spare time or elsewhere. We have a state defense order in the 20th year that's actually down, and by the 21st year, it hasn't even come in yet. There is no Cabinet of Ministers. In the middle of April. How our Armed Forces will provide everything they need is incomprehensible. The only purpose of this strange bill is not even to improve defence planning, but to remove responsibility. Because the only more or less logical line in this bill is to avoid mentioning a military strategy, even a model of the Armed Forces. We don't know what the Ministry of Defense and the Minister of Defense is doing, but it's definitely not by defensive purchases and not by defensive planning. There's no way this law is going through the Supreme Council. And the Minister of Defense needs to be reminded that there is a war in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u131	Gerus Andrey Mihailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u132	Mr. Chairman, I urge you to proceed immediately to the vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-13-m2.u133	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting for a motion to refer to the Committee for a re-reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving defence planning procedures (registration No. 4210). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[19:31:46]] For 252 Decision taken. And the final question for today is Bills 4629, 4629-1. Can we not discuss this, as far as I know? [[B in m in s a l in]] I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on individual issues of the activities of the pilots and ensuring the accessibility of full general secondary education (registration No. 4629-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:32:47]] For 278 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I hereby declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. Good evening, everyone.
