ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Good morning, members of the media! Please prepare for registration. I remind you, as always, that registration takes place by pressing the green button, the first left-hand button for. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:05:58]] There are 176 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to welcome you. We have a colleague today whose birthday is Edward Petrovich Proszczek. I want success, strength, achievement, victory, and always moving forward. [[Applause]] The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome a colleague. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, on Friday, 10 a.m., an hour of questions to the Government is held. At the suggestion of the deputy factions and groups, members of the Cabinet of Ministers today will answer questions about the summary of the meeting of the Council of the Association of Ukraine-EU, which took place on February 11, 2021. The following rules of procedure are proposed. In 20 minutes, the speech by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. After that question, from MP factions and groups to 21 minutes. And then 20 minutes later, on a question to the Prime Minister or to colleagues from the government. Is there no objection? None. Denis Anatolyevich, may I see you in the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u2	Good afternoon, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Good day, Your Honor, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! I will begin my presentation on the subject of a government team visit to Brussels and Luxembourg. It was full and effective for our delegation and no doubt for all of Ukraine. Despite the challenges of the pandemic and the coronavirus, meetings at the highest level have shown that the order of the day of Ukraine-EU is becoming increasingly ambitious and saturated. What's important is that our partners have agreed to meet in a traditional offline format, despite the strict internal rules related to the pandemic. This is a demonstration of special attention to our country, to Ukraine. The seventh meeting of the Association Council of Ukraine-EU, without exaggeration, has become a historic milestone in our bilateral relations, as well as an important stage in the implementation of the 22nd summit of Ukraine-EU, which took place in October with the participation of President Vladimir Zelenski of Ukraine. The European Union welcomed Ukraine’s reform efforts, as noted in the European Parliament’s report on the implementation of the Association Agreement with Ukraine. The European perspective of Ukraine under article 49 of the Treaty on European Union was very clear. Emphasis is placed on the need to step up efforts to strengthen the rule of law and to ensure the independent and effective functioning of anti-corruption institutions. For our part, we have demonstrated our full readiness for further reforms and further transformation of the country in line with better European practices. In the global context, we have been able to identify common points for further movement towards faster European and Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine, as well as further joint steps, particularly in the part of integration into the EU's internal market and the deepening of sectoral integration. Let me list the following among the significant results. There is a confirmed willingness to launch consultations on further review of trade liberalisation within the broader inclusive area of free trade, as provided for in our Association Agreement. In particular, during the negotiations with European Commission Executive President Waldis Dombrovskis, we agreed on further liberalisation in part of the increase in quotas for Ukrainian products. This will further strengthen Ukraine’s position in European markets and allow Ukrainian producers to unlock their export potential. Next result. We're one step closer to the so-called "industrial failure." The EU mission has already begun to assess Ukraine's readiness to sign the Agreement on the so-called "industrial carnage". This will provide broad trading opportunities for a small, medium-sized business that will be able to implement its products in the markets of the European Union. This year we count on substantial progress and get recommendations as soon as possible and sign the agreement. In addition, a comprehensive review of the achievement of the objectives of the Agreement was agreed this year and a presentation by each party of the results of the relevant work at the 23rd summit of Ukraine-EU. The seventh meeting of the Association Council also confirmed Ukraine’s unwavering support and commitment to sovereignty and territorial integrity. The point is that at the meetings, EU leaders unanimously stressed Ukraine's support in the conflict with. and that sanctions against Russia will continue as long as it violates the territorial integrity of our state. It is important to stress that the idea of creating the Crimea Platform has been supported, and I am grateful to the EU and Member States for their continued policy of not recognizing the occupation of the Crimean Peninsula. The visit also signed the Protocol to the Agreement on the International Carriage of Passengers by Bus, the INTERBUS Agreement, which will open the EU bus transport market for Ukraine, as well as the INTERBUS-Turkey, Moldova, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Northern Macedonia and Montenegro. The agreement is an additional opportunity to improve the standards of bus transport, which will improve the quality and price of the Ukrainians. I will stand by to meet with NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg. We have received an important political signal that NATO's doors to Ukraine are open. And this is actually a literal quote from Mr. Stoltenberg at our joint press conference. During the next NATO summit, it is planned to confirm the policy of the Alliance's open doors, and the success of Euro-Atlantic integration is entirely dependent on the effectiveness of reforms, including security reform in accordance with NATO's standards of approach. I will point out that NATO and the Allies remain committed to the policy of non-recognizance of Russia's illegal occupation of Crimea and urge the Russian Federation to stop the aggression against Ukraine on Donbas. The Alliance's position is unchanged: Ukraine's territorial integrity must be restored. Also among the achievements of the political part of the Ukrainian delegation’s visit to Brussels was the announcement of a visit to Ukraine by the President of the European Council, Mr. Charles Michel, in early March 2021 with a visit to Donbas. During our visit, we also had a successful meeting with the President of the European Investment Bank, Mr. Werner Hoyer, and two contracts totalling 320 million euros were signed. Of these, 270 million euros will be aimed at improving and reconstructing the infrastructure of Borispol Airport, another 50 million euros will go to purchase vaccines and modern equipment for a network of vaccination centres. Moreover, the bank has expressed its willingness to allocate 700 million euros for credit aid, in fact zero-interest loans, 0.12 years old, to support small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine. The Ministry of Finance will work in this direction to get the right funds, and they could work for people, for small and medium-sized businesses. A significant result was also the holding of a targeted initial meeting with the European Commission's executive vice-president, Mr. Frans Timmermans, on the approximation of policies and legislation to the European Green Course. The areas of common interest that have been identified, including energy efficiency, hydrogen technology, a fair transformation of coal regions in transition and Ukraine's participation in industrial alliances. It was also agreed to initiate a strategic partnership between Ukraine and the European Union in the field of critical raw materials and batteries. We are waiting for a visit to Ukraine by the Executive Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr. Maroš Šeczovich, with whom we have agreed to hold a high-level conference and to sign a memorandum of understanding on the strategic partnership between Ukraine and the EU in the commodity sector. It should be noted that, for example, only the need for lithium in the European Union, according to EU analysts, will increase 18 times by 2030 and 60 times by 2050. Ukraine has one of the richest stocks of lithium in Europe, so we're interested in Europe, we're interesting as partners, and it's a good opportunity for us to create processing enterprises, create jobs, increase turnover, increase our nation's GDP in modern technology, together with European partners. So this is what relates to part of the results of the government team's visit to Brussels. With regard to specific legislative work towards further European integration, we have a clear road map and it is in partnership with Parliament. A list of the 40 priority bills, more than half of which have been submitted to the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, these include legislation on energy, environment, science and technology, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, social policy, labour relations, customs and trade facilitation, taxation, national security and defence, and legal policy. So all these bills are submitted during this session of the Supreme Council. I call for the honourable leadership of the Supreme Council, the honourable people's deputies, to contribute to the passing of European integration bills that bring Ukraine closer to European standards and, in principle, to the values of the European community. This includes all necessary mechanisms, tools and conditions, particularly government-provided mechanisms for communication with professional committees for the quality preparation of the bills in question. In addition, on 3 February 2021, Mr. Ruslan Stefanchuk, the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, approved the list of Euro-Integration Bills that need to be considered by Parliament in the first instance this year, at a meeting of the Commission on Coordination of the Implementation of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. This list will be updated quarterly at the meetings of the above - mentioned commission. I am confident that the government and parliament can achieve a strategic goal and lay the groundwork for the irreversibility of European reforms in Ukraine. The government continues to work hard towards resolving the tariff situation, which is also a very important topic for our society. The implementation of our eight-step strategy, which aims to ensure that the most well-founded tariffs are in place in Ukraine, is also continuing, updating information on what is happening in the government's anti-crisis plan on tariffs, that is, how we are moving. One of the government's steps was to set the maximum limit price for gas for the population at 6.99 dollars per cubic meter from February to the end of the heating season. It's a fair price, and gas-supply companies stick to the right plank and don't overprice. That's why, in February, the vast majority of natural gas suppliers informed us about the decline in the price of natural gas in January, and we see it on payments that happened in January, and I'm sure it's going to happen in February. Moreover, the price is not 6.99, and individual companies put the price even below. The next step of the government was to lower the tariffs for distribution. On January 30, the National Commission, which regulates energy and utilities, set a maximum tariff of 79 copies per bracelet. And this tariff went into effect for 13 companies where it went beyond that plank. Third warehouse. The government had signed a memorandum with city heads on behalf of President Vladimir Zelensky. This tool will not increase the price of heating and hot water for the population of this heating season and will ensure a steady flow this year. The memorandum also provides guarantees for the Heatcommunergo so that the local budgets do not translate into possible debt burdens. Compensatory mechanisms will allow TKE to work smoothly and to provide the population with all necessary services. One of the mechanisms that will ensure the constant work of heat suppliers is the delay in paying for natural gas. That's why we're making it impossible for any reason to crash into a business that provides heat services. According to the Ministry's operational information, the Ministry is preparing a plan of action for further implementation of the memorandum to be considered at the meeting of the anti-crisis energy headquarters next week. Next. There is work to do on the launch of annual products from gas-supply companies when consumers understand clearly how much they will pay both in the fall and in the winter and in the spring. Such food from other suppliers is to be expected this spring. I call on distinguished national MPs to also engage in such explanatory work, to inform voters about the possibility of changing the supplier, because it is a market, and we have the opportunity to choose those who give better quality, better prices. The sixth aspect. Removing the monopoly so that there is no abuse in the gas market. Another essential component of our policy is the issue of providing Ukrainians with subsidies. The government is taking all necessary measures to compensate for the cost of municipal payments at the expense of subsidies. In fact, 5 million households in Ukraine are currently receiving assistance from the State. Among them, 3 million are grantors, 1.8 million are receiving benefits from the state. I want to make sure that the grant is enough for everyone who needs it. The funding of assigned grants was made on February 1st in January 21st in the amount of 5 billion dollars. In doing so, taking into account the decrease in gas costs in February of the following month, the overall cost requirement is expected to be 1.5-2 billion less than in January. In addition to the importance of the subsidies themselves, the procedure for obtaining them is also important. The government has significantly denied access to subsidies. Most citizens will receive them as soon as they apply. In addition, according to the Ministry of Social Policy, nearly 572,000 consumers will receive compensation for electricity. And the average subsidy is about 570 dollars. The next topic that is worth listening to and considering today is the subject of vaccination. Ukrainians will be provided with safe and quality vaccines as soon as possible. The government and the Ministry of Health have done their utmost to obtain the first batches of safe vaccines in February. The reasons for the delay were repeated by health minister Maxim Stepanov, and they really do have a place. Many countries, including EU countries, have faced a new challenge of shifting vaccine delivery. I'm sure the deadlines will not have a major impact on the vaccine campaign, and it will start soon. And once again, all that's done is done, in particular, a lot of vaccine that's going to be sufficient, and all those who want to be vaccinated will be able to do it. We're still counting on the first party in February. The vaccines from COVID-19 Ukraine will receive two ways: through the Global Kovacs Initiative, where Ukraine can receive vaccines free of charge or at a reduced cost to 8 million doses — from 8 million to 16, in fact for 8 million people. By the end of February, in early March, the first batches of Pfizer/Biontech at 117 thousand doses would have arrived in Ukraine. That's the last piece of information that got out of UNICEF yesterday. We also talked about these things with the leadership of the European Union and the European Commission. It is also expected that during the first half of 2021, Ukraine will receive from 2.2 million to 3.7 million doses of AstraZeneza/Oxford. The second way to get vaccines is through direct purchases from the company of manufacturers at the expense of the state budget, international donors, credit funds and the World Bank's World and European Development Programmes. Other sources are also being considered. According to Victor Lachka, chief health doctor, AstraZenesa/Oxford, an international Crown Agents agency, is expected to arrive in February. The first delivery is likely to be about 500,000 doses. Next, within this purchase, Ukraine will receive 1 million doses of vaccine a month by June, then 2 million doses a month. According to the Ministry of Health, Ukraine as a whole has been confirmed for the supply of 12 million doses of AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccine. By the end of 2020, Ukraine had contracted 1.9 million doses of Sinovac Biotech. Next. An updated road map for vaccination has been approved, which includes five vaccination stages, which we have talked about on several occasions. A logistics infrastructure has been developed to distribute vaccines around all parts of Ukraine. The vaccines that require the maintenance of the cold chain will have the necessary conditions for storage and transportation. Thus, a private logistics company Farmasoft will be involved in the logistics of Pfizer/Biontech, which has an appropriate experience in the logistics of medications in the case of low-temperature storage. The weekly delivery of the vaccine with strict temperature management in the district centres, 25 cells are prepared for the vaccine. The vaccine will be used within five days after it has been put to use, for this is the maximum number of days that the vaccine can be stored at temperatures plus 2 - plus 8 after it has been defrosted. Saving other types of vaccines is able to provide a state-owned company called Ukrvakcin. If the vaccine needs a temperature plus 2 plus 8, then the available power of the state-owned enterprise is enough to store 30 million doses of vaccines at the same time. There are also 490 sites in the area where the amount of drugs can be stored to meet the need for a vaccine up to 2-4 weeks. An organizational component is also provided for the initiation of vaccination. A number of mobile teams have been formed to ensure that the vaccination campaign is conducted in the first and second stages. In addition, more skilled workers continue to do so according to regulations and standards. The Ministry of Health also compiled lists of doctors and military personnel for the first and second waves of vaccination. So we are fully prepared, today the Minister of Health is on his way to India, directly to the producer of AstraZeneca. And we expect him to return with proper contracts and vaccines. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u3	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Please sign up for questions from MPs and groups. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u4	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister! You know the 20th year statistics that we have exports to the countries of the European Union decreased by 10.3 percent, the asymmetrical free trade zones are reflected in the fact that we have a negative balance of almost $5 billion with the European Union. And the third thing that I'd like to pay attention to is that we've got the pithoma weight reduced in the geographical structure to 38 percent. How will you resolve these questions? That's the first one. One second. We have, if we take it in dollars, $18 billion in exports last year. The peak of the trade was 11, and he was almost 18. So we didn't increase our annual volume in nominal numbers. In comparison, they've gone down because you know, the prices for raw materials have gone up by one and a half times. How are we going to level this situation? And third, last. Of course, we're wondering when our 175 euro minimum wage will go into what year in a thousand 560s, like in Western European countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u5	As far as last year's figures are concerned, all countries have experienced economic complications. You know that Ukraine's data from the European Business Association has been through the crisis year of the smallest of our neighbours. The foreign trade balance in Ukraine has improved, that is, relative to previous periods, imports have declined, and exports have increased. The European Union accounts for 41 per cent as a commercial – 41 per cent in Ukraine's external trade – one of Ukraine's largest trading partners. And in fact, the things we talked about during our visit to Brussels are the expansion of opportunities in the full-scale free trade zone for the Ukrainian business, and as many as 14,000 Ukrainian businesses, small, medium, large, are exporters of our production to the EU. This list, this number will increase and Ukrainian enterprises will actually be able to export their products to European Union countries without quotas. Of course, the market, the European market gives a lot of opportunities, it certainly creates competition, but competition leads to higher quality, lower prices. These are the important indicators that are economically, which are extremely important for our nation and which we discussed during our visit to the European Union to the European Commission. Once again, the EU is Ukraine's largest trading partner with 41% of its external trade structure today. When it comes to industrial failure, which we also discussed during our visit, it is an absolute opportunity for our manufacturers to export their products under EU standards to both the EU and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u6	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u7	Please pass the word to Irina Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u8	Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u9	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Prime Minister, I don't really have any questions for you after Zimbabwe has started, and you're standing on this stand and telling us one more time that we're going to get a vaccine. At the same time, I'd like to ask you as the head of the executive branch or is it a valid order from the Ministry of Defense to deprive our military of the premiums for opening fire in response? I'd like to ask you, as head of the executive branch, why your team didn't develop the appropriate regulatory acts to get the State Procurement Act, the defense purchases became effective, because you're sabotaging and disrupting the state defense order for 2021. Do you feel your personal responsibility for de facto and de jure you're sabotaging everything you had to do to.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u10	No fines for fire in response to Russian provocations are applied to members of the United Nations military forces in the area of operation. I put a dot in your provocation and manipulation. In order to create safe conditions for carrying out military tasks and to preserve the lives and health of the special forces involved in the operations of secession and the deterrence of armed aggression by the Russian Federation, payments have been made to the troops of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, to the commanders of divisions, conspiracies, mouths, battalions (divisions), and to the brigades, the amount of remuneration is determined on the basis of the number of accountable violations committed by a special warehouse per month. Violations include: committing military administrative offences, administrative offences, the presence of persons charged with service duties in cases of illness caused by violations of health regulations, injuries, violations of security measures, suicides, unwarranted combat casualties among the special forces, the opening of a fire without command from the commander, from the chief, except in cases of military necessity. These are the parameters that the Ministry of Defence has introduced into the relevant documents. With regard to the implementation of the State Defense Order Act, they are all adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the law and the terms in which this law was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The end date is April 1st. On this Wednesday, yesterday, seven relevant acts were adopted, and a number of relevant acts were adopted, so all acts of government to be adopted to implement the provisions of the Law on Preservation of Procurement are accepted and developed, and are adopted by the government on time, which was done, in particular, on a live basis on this Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u11	Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u12	Oh, my God. Wolverine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u13	Volinec Mikhailo Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u14	Mikhail Volintz, "Fatherland" faction. Mr. Prime Minister, what is he doing here and in what capacity is Prime Minister Yuri Vitrenko temporarily acting? His mandate came at the end of January 23 of this year. The debt on wages now amounts to 830 million coal miners. It's 1 billion 300 million. At a meeting convened by Vitrenco, he said that it was necessary to close the uranium mines in Ukraine, buy a uranium concentration abroad, and send miners to Poland for earnings. Next. He's not dealing with the tariff issue that we raise every time. And the fifth question. Mr. Prime Minister, we've collected dozens of signatures from all factions requesting you to call an anti-crisis headquarters to address energy crises. You run this headquarters, and we expect an answer from you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u15	Vitrenko Yuriovich, the first deputy minister of energy, serves as energy minister. That's the first one. The other one. I'm going to have a big request because yesterday a veto was imposed on the appropriate bill that was passed, and it did not allow the acting energy minister to manage the ministry, particularly, which is very important, to sign the annual budget programmes. This means that the payment of wages to miners today is threatened by the failure or failure of the energy minister, or the appointment of an active energy minister. A very important question, and in fact it is here today, in Parliament, its solution. That's the first one. The other one is the mines. At all times and meetings with miners, you and I said that no mines would shut there in shock. We have a fair coal transformation programme in Ukraine with European partners. It's designed for a long time, up to 2050-2070 years, so that miners can get jobs in those mines where they're running out of supplies, their kids know where they're going to go to learn, to work. And this program is designed by two ministries, it's working for today and it's evolving. The tariffs I reported, I'm not going to repeat all the steps we've taken. It's about the anti-crisis power station. As soon as the documents are received, of course, we will gather together such a meeting and consider the whole issue of energy together. Let's plan this for next week, I don't mind. If there is such a desire, we will gather the energy sector and discuss the energy problems that exist. There's enough of them, there's lots of them, so there's absolutely nothing to talk about. Thank you for your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u16	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u17	Good afternoon, please pass the word to Oleg Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u18	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u19	Good afternoon, fellow Prime Minister! The question to you is as follows. During January-February, very many steps were taken by the government and Parliament to stabilise the housing-communal tariff situation. In particular, the government has reduced the price of gas for the population, limited the price of transporting gas. Parliament has adopted a bill that regulates the situation with those consumers who have switched to electricity. But people in the regions don't think that's enough. So there's a specific question. Will any other steps be taken by the government to resolve the situation at a price drop? And has the situation of housing tariffs been discussed in our country with our European partners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u20	Thank you for your question, which is absolutely important and relevant to all people. Of course, apart from what we've already heard with you today, which we've already heard over and over again, we're working with the Ministry of Profile, with NAC Naftogaz, on the launch, first of all, of an annual product to ensure a stable price when it comes to gas. Of course, we've processed and made some additions to the February-March regulation on gas prices. Since April and May, we will work and offer annual products and price stability for Ukrainians in the gas market. With regard to cooperation with European partners. Of course, this dialogue is going, and of course we're also asking for their experience, their technology as to how to price gas, how to price electricity, and that kind of work, and that kind of analytics are done and done. In addition, international financial institutions are being negotiated to co-finance such projects at tariffs, gas prices and electricity prices. In particular, I want to say that the memorandum, which is signed with city heads, also includes a number of measures to stabilize the situation on the utility market in the heat and hot water supply sectors. It also provides for the introduction and organization of utilities to prevent their bankruptcy, to ensure their steady work, to ensure a stable supply of heat and water in this and subsequent heating seasons, as well as in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u22	Good afternoon, please pass the word to Lesi Vasilko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u23	Lescia Vasilko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u24	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, it is essential that Ukraine continue to move towards greening the economy and improving the lives of Ukrainians in a quality environment. But words are not enough, and action is needed. And so I ask you very much to comment on the state's failure to comply with our commitments under the Energy Partnership Agreement and, in particular, on the failure of the National Plan to reduce emissions from large combustion plants, namely TECs, TESs, and large boilers. They continue to poison Ukrainians, and they continue to work on dirty coal, on exhausted power, but the government does not keep its obligations. My colleagues and I were even forced to register a decision that was appropriate in the Supreme Council, which compels the government to take a decision on the financing of NPVs and to take decisions on the implementation of NPVs within the deadlines agreed with our European partners. My colleagues at SEDO have this document, and I urge everyone, by the way, to sign it and support it. Mr. Schmigal, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u25	Thank you. So on environmental issues, I want to assure you that this is one of the priorities of our government. During our visit to Brussels, we gave great attention to the discussion of environmental issues, as well as to the course of Ukraine at the European Green Course or at the Green Deal, and to the reduction of emissions, and to the introduction of new environmental technologies in the Ukrainian industry, and to energy efficiency. You know, we've got the right fund built up, we've got the state-run Ukrainian budget, and international donors are waiting and ready to invest money on energy efficiency to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As for the National Emission Reduction Plan, I want to say that there are no violations and deadlines for this plan for today. It's starting to work, the main actions, the parameters that have to take place since 2023. Unfortunately, it was signed without economic justification and accounting by previous governments. Accordingly, it will, of course, create objectively enormous pressure on the economy, on prices, on enterprises that generate electricity and energy. So we're working with this plan, especially with our international partners, to understand the sources of these costs, to understand the actual introduction plans, the reductions in these discards. I'm also going to ask you now to give the minister a minute to complete the environmental protection of this plan and what's really going on. Thank you. Please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u26	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Dear Lessie Volodymyrna, you know that we are now meeting to find out the way we're going to go about implementing the National Emission Reduction Plan from large combustion plants. There are certain works, there are. There were no timely steps to be taken in part of the financing of those plans. But at the very least, it's written that the government is going to develop financial mechanisms to move to an unregulated market, well, in principle, it's lost an investment bonus that could do that. We cooperate fruitfully with all the steakholders involved in this plan. I think that in the near future, Minneergo and I will develop some mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u27	Please, National Deputy of Ukraine, Irina Miroslavovna, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the National Deputies of the Group For the Future, the Majorists, have asked you to increase funding for the treatment of war veterans, as well as for proper medical care. We've received a response from the government's profile ministries on this situation, and it turns out that in 2021 these categories of our citizens are left out of the government's attention. So my question is, I'm going to write it like this. Please tell me whether changes will be made regarding the treatment of veterans, such as Appendix 2 to the Cabinet Order of August 17, 98? The other one. Will a separate government program be developed to treat war veterans? And will the President's mandate to create such a program be carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. It's absolutely relevant. We work a lot with veteran communities, with veterans, we understand very carefully the issue of veterans, the problem of their treatment, and most of all their rehabilitation. Of course, that's what the profile ministry is doing (I'm going to ask you to give the minister a minute. Minister of Veterans), and accordingly, all the work you're talking about is going on. And I'm asking the Minister to complete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u30	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Thank you so much for that question. But this is a very complex question, because the budget that the Ministry of Veterans actually has is extremely small for all projects. So now we're preparing draft changes to the budget, and I'm just going to ask you, and on these issues, I'm going to ask you to support. Because it is very difficult to implement policies to protect our defenders with such a budget. So please support our changes, we'll bring them in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u31	Insane Mariana Volodymyrna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Galina Mikhailuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u33	Mikhailuk Galina Olegovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u34	Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question about progress in our economic and trade relations with the third largest GDP economy in the world of Japan. National deputies, members of an interparliamentary group, business, food and agro-industry are extremely interested in reaching the same level of cooperation with Japan as we have with the European Union, Canada, and other world leaders. So what is the stage at which the Ministry of Economics and the Japanese side are negotiating a free trade agreement and what steps can the Ministry of Economics take to speed up this process? There have been repeated negotiations at the inter-State and inter-parliamentary levels on this issue, but these negotiations have no impact without the active participation of the directly owned ministries. I'm sure if we need to be national deputies, we can give our support in the negotiation process, but the initiative should come from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. In fact, this work is going on, and after President Vladimir Zelensky's visit to Japan, it's almost a year ago, the Ministry is doing an appropriate job, creating an appropriate working group, an intergovernmental commission called "Ukraine-Japan," and I'm now going to give the floor to the Minister of Economics in order for him to also complete this information and say what the situation really is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u36	Thank you so much for asking. Indeed, negotiations are also under way with Japan. We are actively working in this direction, and we are ready to discuss more in the area of Mineconomy. Of course, the conclusion of any free trade agreement is a long-term process and requires regulation and analysis of the interests of both sides. So we're just at the beginning of this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u37	Please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Oksana Vasilovna's owl.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u38	Dmitri Anatoliyovich, I want to ask you very much what concerns the city of Ivano-Frankivsky. We had a health care doctor this week, prepared everything necessary to provide financial assistance in order to get extra oxygen, extra HIV in the hospitals of Ivano-Frankivska. I have a direct question to you, Denise Anatolyovich. Please tell me, can Ivano-Franco expect help from the government in the fight against the pandemic, because we are now in the first place? This is very important, and everyone is waiting for your answer. Will the government be able to provide financial assistance to hospitals next week so that they do not simply have extra space but have access to oxygen and all the necessary equipment?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u39	Yes, thank you for your question. In fact, French women today are, unfortunately, the first place in the COVID antiregistration. In fact, the epidemic is developing in the Ivano-Frankiv region, and especially in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk at a very fast pace. Unfortunately, I also want to turn to the local authorities because of you: what was done to ensure. Last year we provided more than 80 percent of the oxygen beds, and the government allocated 1.5 billion dollars of money for that. We've given all the tools we need to implement city and local commissions with you and NS and to implement restrictive measures on time to the local authorities. Unfortunately, no step has been taken by the local authorities this year to halt this developing epidemic, and it is only on Wednesday that an appropriate committee with the TEM and the NM have been held, with the participation of the Chief State Health Officer, to this day, that appropriate decisions have been made on the creation of additional beds. And I have a huge request to the local authorities of Ivano-Francchia, the heads of local self-government, to be very responsible and to make all the necessary decisions in a timely manner, provided by legislation, which are provided with regulations on restrictions that will help to reduce the rate of disease on the ground, because Johno-Francischi is actually burning from the Coronavirus epidemic today. Of course, all the necessary steps to be taken by the government will be taken, we are waiting for appropriate legislative questions, if necessary, but we are also waiting for concrete action from local government authorities, from local government leaders to stop this epidemic, to stop what is currently going on in Johno-Frankivsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u40	Thank you. Please give the floor to National Deputy Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u41	Thank you. Please give me the word of Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u42	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u43	Mr. Prime Minister, last week you confirmed your commitment to reforms in the European Union, including the independence of anti-corruption bodies. Then you submit a bill from Kabmin to the Supreme Council that directly contradicts the independence of anti-corruption authorities, where you propose to release the head of the NAB. How does this relate? The second question. Has the government’s position regarding the restoration of public service competitions been developed? The president made a commitment to this bill, or did you insist that these competitions should be restored as soon as possible? And the third question. When will our cooperation be finally restored, more loyally established, our real cooperation with the European Commission on the consent of up to 1.5 years ago of the ratified Appendix to the 27th Agreement – the acceptance of our energy legislation with the European Union for the real integration of our energy systems?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u44	Thank you for your complex question. So it's about the NAB. One bill is in Parliament, it has not passed a profile committee. The government, by the way, jointly and in consultation, has developed an alternative bill that allows us to document and clearly determine how NABU will work, how the competitions will take place for the manager. There is no word of direct release. There are procedures in place to perform duties (first deputy) in the event of a reformation or release of the director of the NABU. The bill provides an opportunity for open debate on the basis of a profile committee, and in fact the government is ready to justify and defend the positions that are set forth in this very constructive bill on anti-corruption reform, both by legislation and by anti-corruption bodies in Ukraine. As for the public service contests and the law voted in the Supreme Council regarding the restoration of competitions. We certainly and definitely support the restoration of public service competitions and, of course, look forward to a proper vote or veto vote, or a new vote on the bill. Its promise was due to the incorrect responsibilities of ministers in the absence of a minister. So actually this bill doesn't really unlock the Ministry of Energy's work, and as I said today, it leaves the entire energy sector without the possibility of paying wages. That's about 50,000 people who don't have signed annual budget programmes today. And the proper adoption of this bill, with a good line of reference, of the responsibility of the minister, was the very reason for his promise.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u45	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Zarski Maksim Valentinovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u46	Please give me the word of Black Sea Artem.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u47	An artem of the Black Seas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u48	Good morning, Mr. Prime Minister! I, the Black Sea Artem, represent 131 counties. I've got Dirdin Maxim sitting next to me. You know, most of the votes people have cast for us live in the observation zone, it's a 30-mile zone. Until recently, they had the only tool to compensate for living in a risk zone, which is a 30 percent discount on electricity. Why I'm saying the only one, because one percent doesn't go back to the communities to the full. Tell me, please, we're going to have work in the district right now. What can we tell people? Just say yes or no. You're going to return 30 percent to those cities that are in the risk zone or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u49	Thank you, Mr. Artem, for your question. In fact, there were three different types of benefits or discounts in the 30-mile zone. In particular, there's a separate payoff for electricity that's returned, and, I told you, 1.8 billion dollars were paid in January of the month. It's just for electricity. Most of the cities in the 30-kilometre zone are actually burned by electricity. So that's one of the benefits. Second, it's a night fare, which is also present in a 30km zone. It's a separate benefit for a 30-mile zone. This is a complex issue that needs to be discussed on the site of also a profile committee, ministries about, in principle, the possibilities of benefits or monetary benefits and subsidies to which our state passes and when people receive specific money or specific benefits in specific situations. So today we're talking and we're conducting a dialogue on the monetaryization of benefits and subsidies in all areas, if it falls under it or if it falls under it, or if it falls within a 30-mile radius of one or another city, or around one or another station. Let's talk about this and develop the right mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u50	Thank you. The word is given to Lunchenk's national deputy Valeriyyovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u51	Please pass the word to Sergio Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u52	Sergei Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u53	Mr. Prime Minister, you have been approached by Deputy Saucuk in connection with Ivano-Frankish and the increase in the allocation of funds today, because that is where the outbreak of the coronavirus occurred today. And no local authorities are to blame for this. You're not central authority, because there's really no equipment all over the country today. Second question. Please tell me, while the Ministry of Agrarian Policy will be a statistician? Why no department has yet been handed over, no structure for the Ministry of the APC, we voted December 17th. And the main question. Why is electricity and electricity more expensive today in Donbas, Donetsk, Lugansk than in Kiev? Are there rich people living there, or what? Level 84 costs a transit of electricity today. The same situation for gas. Why do distribution companies today not sit down and spread out into this country? The war is only going in Lugansk and Donetsk, is it still going around the country? Please pay attention and give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u54	Thank you. About the first part, about the epidemic that's going on in Ivano-Francisco. The equipment is nothing, the question of how they manage it, how they restrict it, how they let children go to school, how businesses work, transport depends on how the epidemic develops. And the elimination of the consequences of the epidemic, the treatment, the skill of our doctors, the availability of equipment and the connection of beds to oxygen in municipal institutions, particularly in urban and district areas, is already a matter for the local authorities. Regarding agrarian politics of the newly created ministry. On this Wednesday, the Ministry was duly approved, and it was given full powers. And there was a complete division of responsibilities between the Ministry of Environment, between the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of the APC. The situation is confirmed, there remains one discussion point on the state irrigation programme to be in the Ministry of the APC and is due to receive appropriate development, funding, support for the southern areas of Ukraine this year. Actually, it's about irrigation. All the rest of the parameters, today's ministry can fully work, the appointed Secretary of State, the minister completely now forms a command, are suitable premises. So all the work is going on after the full start of the Ministry's activities. Regarding the cost or the tariff on distribution of electricity. I've already said that today, bracelet 79 is the limit introduced by the NCRECR. So this is their area of responsibility. As far as I know, you've called the head of the NCREKP. An independent operator and an independent controller that sets the tariffs for distribution in particular. Today, Ukraine’s electricity distribution limit is December 1, 79. And they regulate all other transport tariffs accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u55	Please, National Deputy of Ukraine, Kisilevsky Dmitry Davidovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u56	I'm asking you to pass on the word to Tistik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u57	Please, Testik Roman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u58	Good afternoon, national deputies of Ukraine! Jaroslav Tistik, Lvivščina, "Serve of the People". I have a question for Dennis Anatoliyovich and one for the minister of culture. I'll start with the minister of culture. I want to thank you for the systematic work being done in Lviv, and last week we started a really big restoration project with you. And we will do our best to expand this program. But I have a point on two investment projects that are actually about culture. This is about the Lviv National Opera and the Lviv National Gallery of the Aussie Arts. I would like to point out that these projects in the budget are taken together by an interfaith commission from public investment projects and are mandatory for implementation. And I want you to inform me about the approval of the passports for these two projects. Or did you pass them if you didn't pass them, or why? And to you, Denise Anatoliyovich, about what you said about the renewal of the Association Agreement. What's the point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u59	So let me start with the Association Agreement. The agreement's renewal, the essence of it is that since 2009, when the agreement itself was being prepared, a lot of standards have changed, Europe changes them every 2 years. In addition, many living conditions have changed. And it's not about the agreement itself, it's not about the text of the agreement, it's not going to change, it's going to change the plugins that are actually going to adapt the standards of the terms of this agreement to the current conditions. That's the point. Regarding the financing of cultural objects, indeed, the minister of culture was in Lviv, and thank you for your work together. And I'm going to ask. I will join you in asking that these objects be included in the passports of the budget programs because they are so important for the region. I'll also ask you to complete the first deputy minister of culture, he's here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u60	Thank you for your appreciation for the work of the Ministry of Culture. Indeed, there are new challenges related to the need to implement this year's Big Restoration program, which is part of the big Big Construction project. Those objects that you named, although not included in the program in the first place, are, however, one of the key to this year’s implementation. Yes, indeed, these projects have undergone appropriate expertise. They went through all the necessary commissions. And now we're putting them in a plan for implementation. The passports of the budget programs are developed by the Ministry of Finance. And if we don't agree today, we expect it literally over a day or two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u61	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ruššin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u62	Please give it to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u63	Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u64	Good afternoon! I have two questions. The first question is as follows. In recent times, in public space, especially in information, Georgia has been considerably cut off in its ability to obtain VAT. I have a question: Will this not be a threat to Ukraine? Do we have the prospect and homework of the Georgians? Because we know that it will be very important and principled, important for Ukraine, including the NATO summit. Do we have a strategy compared to the Georgians in this scenario? And secondly, the question to the Defence Minister with the request to find out what's going on with the food for the army? Still, look at the tender procedures that actually win two firms that have a lot of court decisions and open criminal conduct. Otherwise, you know, I'm going to bring you to this room, I'm going to show the national MPs the beetles from the bowl, the frozen and the punctures are not known what the crusts of the chicken, the blood of the meat, the double - assigned boxes and the rotten cabbage. I think it's a shame and a shame. For no one to see it and allow such food for the army.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u65	Regarding the DHR, i.e. the NATO Membership Action Plan. We discussed this in great detail at a meeting with the Secretary-General of NATO during his visit to Brussels. It's a completely understandable homework that we need to do. We really want it to be at the same time: both Georgia and Ukraine. We had this conversation three weeks ago with the Prime Minister of Georgia. So we coordinate our work, our activities. And really, the plan is to get a VAT in NATO together with Georgia. With regard to the second question, I'd like to ask the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u66	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. With regard to nutrition. At present, according to the President’s decision to the end of this month, there is a wide range of military and military leadership, including the Ministry of Defence. The responsible deputy secretary of defense, who was responsible for the logistical issues, was also on the front for four days and examined all these questions. Regarding specific companies mentioned in some of the information tools. We figured out, these companies existed long before the present team came to the Ministry of Defense. And the incidents you're talking about happened last year, I think, in January of the 20th and December of the 19th. No such cases have been recorded at this time. Food on the front is constantly on the front, especially on the front, and is constantly in the area of our special attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, the final question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, then to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u69	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear Denis Anatoliyovich, I'm afraid you've avoided a comprehensive answer to my colleague Irina Frez's question, so I'm going to go over the details. First, the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of 5 November sets a deadline for the adoption of the regulations necessary for the implementation of the provisions of the Procurement Defence Act. I'll remind you that you're a member of Radbez. On February 15, none of the regulations were approved by the government. The other one. You said that the deadline set before the law became effective was April 1st. That's not true, indeed, some of the positions are introduced in the Final Positions later, but it doesn't exempt the government from the drafting of the regulations. And on the committee it was noted that the law had been broken because of the non-preparation of legal acts. That's two. Three. I have a short question. Who will be responsible for breaking the laws and decisions of the National Security Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u71	Thank you for asking. Answer me. The key question to this day is that the basic acts required by legislation are adopted, published, and I ask you to get to know them. That's the first one. The other one. By April 1st, "The Final Positions" allow us to adopt appropriate normative and normative regulations. POPs aren't broken this year, it's also a key issue. So here's the question of whether a state defense order is being ordered or not being executed, or whether it's being blocked. When the law was passed, how much time was given for the quality preparation of regulations, and how fast they were developed. If reference is made to the developers, those who have developed and submitted timely or timely appropriate regulations apply appropriate disciplinary or personnel training for violations of the relevant terms and terms set out in Ukrainian legislation. So this work is done and it's done if it's fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u72	Condratuk Olena Konstantinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u73	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister! You know, today I'm not going to ask you any more questions about when the vaccination will start, because I don't think it makes any sense anymore. Because whatever date you're referring to right now, trust in the government on this issue is already blown. Since more than 70 countries in the world have successfully been vaccinated by the Coronavirus and are reporting on their own success. I have just one simple but complex question. Please tell the Prime Minister of Ukraine if you are ready from the highest court in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to apologize for the failure of the vaccination process from the Crownovirus in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u74	The vaccination in Ukraine will begin as soon as possible in accordance with the national vaccination plan, and all those who wish will be vaccinated. The key question that these vaccines will be safe will be put in place, and to this day all the infrastructure is prepared. I think the vaccination is about to start, convinced of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u75	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Question time's up. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. I wish you success, and we'll be waiting for you on the "hour of questions to the government" Friday. Thank you. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Kostuk Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u76	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! On February 25, Ukraine will celebrate the historic date, the date of the birth of an outstanding poet, the outstanding Ukraine of the Forest of Ukraine, which was born that day in Novograd-Wolinski. This is truly a historical figure at the level of Taras Shevchenk, with John Frank, who is the national hero who unites Ukrainians. And at this time, at a time when we're being quarrelled by foreign agents, by the media, we need heroes, heroes that unite us, Lesia Ukraine is just like that. For more than a year, an orgcommittee was working with the minister of culture, the national deputies of Ukraine from various factions. We worked to get the maximum funding involved, and we thought about all the measures to really celebrate such a historic date. And I'm happy to say that the city of Novgrad Volinsky really got the most funding last year, record-breaking in the history of this city. Thank you to all colleagues who have participated in this, thank you to Kabmina, thank you to the President of Ukraine, thank you all. Because you all voted to go to the President and confess this year to the Forest of Ukraine. We did it, I meant it. But then the next question comes: After the funds have been allocated, how have they been absorbed? 60 million dollars was spent by the Zitomir district administration to repair roads in the center of Novograd Wallinsky, and asphalt was taken off in May. For six months, we've seen this painting: in the center of the city, the asphalt is raised, unoccupied, the mountains of garbage, the Great Building Table by Vladimir Zelensky. And it's been six months. Only six months later, officials finally came to their senses and began repairing roads when the freezing started. And for today these roads have had to be broken down, and they are not ready. In a year, asphalt roads could not be repaired. Another issue to which funding was obtained, thanks to the great Minister of Regional Development, is that 11 million dollars should be allocated from the DFRD budget for the reconstruction of the Forest Museum of Ukraine, which did not know this reconstruction since 86, had no repairs. But some officials, the head of the district council, the country needs to know these names, Fedorenko refers to the mayor of Novograd Wallinsky, and says, write an application to give up funding. Refuse to finance the renovation of the Forest Museum of Ukraine on its anniversary. Thus, all that we fought for, unfortunately, was lost by officials on the scene in the Zitomir region. But I invite everyone to the celebration.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's get to work. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the certification of the transmission system operator (registration number 3364-1-d). Please prepare for the vote. We need to make a decision on this issue by means of a simplified procedure. Let's try it in a nutshell, and if it doesn't work out, we'll have to do it in full, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:17:19]] For 185 Decision taken. The chairman of the Energy and Housing Committee, Herus Andriy Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u78	Good afternoon, Reverend Head! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Today, a revised bill on the certification of the NEC transmission system operator "Ukrenergo" is proposed for your consideration. This is an important European integration law that will help us integrate into the ENTSO-E European Energy System, and this is accordingly the committee version of the bill that was supported at the committee meeting. The proposed bill-worked certification of the power transmission system operator by the ISO separation model provides that the transmission system operator uses property that ensures the integrity of Ukraine's combined energy system and the dispatcher's operational and technological management, the highway and interstate electricity networks on the right to economic knowledge, and that property remains the property of the State. As a result of the discussion of the bill on January 27, this year, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption by the Committee of a bill on a re-reading basis, shortening the deadline for its preparation for consideration in the second half reading. Please support the Committee's decision and adopt an amended bill amending some Ukrainian legislative acts on the certification of the transmission system operator (registration number 3364-1-d of February 01, 2021), by entrusting the Energy and Housing Services Committee to finalize the draft bill, taking into account the comments and proposals made by entities of the law of the legislative initiative, by shortening the deadline for submission of comments and proposals by half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, there's a need for discussion, isn't there? Please sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u80	Please pass the word to Sosun Inni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u81	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, I very much hope that this bill will now find unequivocal support in this room. Why is this bill important to us? This bill will allow us, Ukraine, to join Europe. That's the step we've been waiting for a long time. We've all been discussing the problem of buying electricity in Russia and Belarus for a long time. So in order for us to find a systemic solution so that we don't depend on joining Belarus and Russia, we really need to adopt this particular bill. He's going to let Ukrenergo join European networks and eventually solve the problem that we're all actively trying to solve now, hopefully most of this room. At the same time, this does not solve the problem of our dependence on energy from Russia. We talk a lot about buying electricity in Russia. But we also buy coal in Russia, we buy a lot of other energy resources in Russia. And I would like to take this first step in the direction of Europe, in the context of electricity, we would also think about how, in principle, we would dedepend on Russia in other areas in the same way. I repeat, the Voice party will definitely vote in favour of this law, and we very much hope that not only in the matter of electricity, but also in the matter of other energy carriers, we will also aim to work towards joining Europe and disconnecting from Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u83	Blue Oleg Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u85	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! Here President Zelenski said that by this decade Ukraine would join the European Union. This sounds to me about all the actions of the majority and Mr. Zelensky as "the present generation of Soviet people will live under communism." At the same time, this bill, which we are currently considering after it was cleaned, finalized, is really necessary. It is essential for Ukraine to finally take the step it can take to join the European energy system. And that means increased security, our national energy security for Ukraine. This means lowering the potential prices for our consumers and for our industry. This means finally closing this shameful import from the Russian Federation and Belarus that we're violating. give us an opportunity to influence our policies, our security and our lives in an aggressor country. So "European Solidarity" is obviously going to support the Euro-Integration Bill, and I hope that these initiatives in this room will be considered, in fact, increasingly. And that the words will not at last depart from the action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u87	Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u88	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues! It's a very vague bill. And despite his correct name, I would like to say why the faction of Fatherland will not support this bill in such an editorial way. The Fatherland faction certainly advocates both the political integration of Ukraine with the European Union and the technological integration of our energy systems and the accession of the European energy system. But the devil, as always, is in detail. Under the correct name "network operator certification" is hidden, as always, one banal desire: to avoid our state company "Ukrenergo". If you read this bill carefully, you'll realize that the main goal is to separate the government and the Kabmin from the management of this strategic energy company in general, so that, through the supervisory board, you can pursue a completely non-Ukrainian policy. Your Honor, the previous MP who said this bill would help stop imports. Colleagues to stop imports are enough to accept a simple bill and stop today the import of electricity from the aggressor country. And now the main thing. My friends, more than a year ago, you and I were offered a candy bar called "anbandling," which is the separation of a gas transport operator. And we were promised that the result of this separation would be a powerful transparent gas market. Are you all convinced today of the acquisition of this market? Do you understand what it means when, really, under the right slogans of the market and the transparency of diletters begin to decide their pocket interests? That is why, my friends, we cannot support this bill, and we demand one clear road map of the exit from the energy crisis of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u89	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna. Tell me, is there any motive for insisting? Speedboat, I see, Shahov. Then we go to the vote. Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u90	Good afternoon! Please give the floor to my colleague, Alexander Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u91	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u92	Thank you, Mr. Head. First, it was noted that some MPs did not read the bill. And I'm going to bring two quotes to the key that confirm that this bill doesn't need to be voted on. For example, the first thing that the project proposes is to exclude the Minnergo requirement of investment programs, which may serve as an inefficient spending. The second norm, which is also incompatible, that control of the activity of Ukrenergo relies either on an authorized person or on an authorized organization, with the choice of such an organization not described, may have corrupt risks. The previous speaker said much that we had similar experience in the matter of gas. Today, the Prime Minister told us that we have a gas price of 6.99. He's somewhere right, but we have 6.99 plus bracelet 79 plus VAT for this delivery, and so we have the final gas price of 9.138. That's what these manipulations are doing under pseudopatriotic European slogans, and in fact people are starting to pay more and more tariffs, and the price of gas is higher. In this case, that's exactly what we're going to have to do with the electricity tariff. We have today the Prime Minister has not explained why he eliminated 100 kilowatts of 90 kips, and the bracelet 68 sets up the entire population of the country. Moreover, today there is information that 1 kilowatt will cost 3.5 bracelets — 4 bracelets. That's what they're leading us to, and what they're showing us is what the electricity market is going to be. And to the end. If you want to propose any drafts, look what we've submitted. How to lower the price of gas, heating tariffs, hot water supplies to ensure that the cost of utilities is equal to the purchasing capacity and capacity of the population. Otherwise, all these steps that are now being voted on will lead to an increase in the value of utilities. Hear me, for you will be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u93	A speedboat, then a Shahov. Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u94	I absolutely agree with previous speakers that this bill contains a number of shortcomings, but we can remove them between the first and the second readings. And the very certification procedure for Ukraine is necessary for us to be integrated into the European energy system. So this bill needs to be supported in the first reading, and I call on all my colleagues to support it, because it is essential for the Ukrainian electricity market to get tired so that we can go to Europe. That's why the MPs will support this bill in the first reading, which is what I call for all of my fellow members of the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u95	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u96	Sergey Shahov, Trust MP, Luhanščina. Dear colleagues, we will certainly support this bill to stop today's electricity supply from Belarus and Russia. We have nuclear energy the cheapest energy in the world. Why is it down today? Which of the divers inside the country is destroying our energy today? That's the first one. And secondly, I asked the Prime Minister why in Donbas, in Luhansk, Donetsk, today, tariff policy is even higher than in Kiev? Why is war going on there today, and today this tariff cannot be broken all over the country? December 1, 84, you know, our parents were building this system, our parents were buying these pipes that I was talking about, gassy, and today Luhanskina and Donecina are paying for it. First of all, we need to think about how to put out today, how to compensate the people of Donbas for these tariffs. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u97	Mr. Ludmila Anatolyevna. Then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u98	Ludmila Buymister, "Serial of the People" faction, 223 district. Colleagues, finally for the second year of work, we're starting to adopt Euro-Integration Bills in the field of energy. It makes me very happy, and I urge the Hall to support this important bill. But let's not be happy with our hopes, this bill does not solve the strategic problems of the sector or the problems that we have today in the economic sphere. It will not help to abandon Russian and Belarusian imports, there is a separate bill registered in the Supreme Council. It will not help to overcome the systemic manipulations and conspiracies that take place in the electricity market. And it will not help bring our energy system into order and overcome the systemic crises that threaten all consumers in our country today. There's still a lot of work to be done, so let's not stop there.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u99	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the certification of the transmission system operator (registration number 3364-1-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:32:34]] For 274 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal under part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the Reduction of Half of the Submission of Rights and Offers and the Preparation for the Second Reading of Bill No. 3364-1-d. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:33:11]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is Bill 3034a. As far as I can remember the faction’s position, we can vote it without discussion. Right? That's why I'm betting. One minute. Dear colleagues, we will now need to vote on the four amendments proposed by the committee and then vote in favour of the law as a whole. I'll bet you vote number one. Please support and vote. [[11:34:45]] For-286 I'll bet you vote number two. It's just that you have two number one revisions in the table. This is number one, right? I'm betting on vote number two. Please support and vote. [[11:35:21]] For 278 Decision taken. Edit #3 in the table below number 2. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:35:44]] For 279 Decision taken. Edit number 4, the table is marked as number 3. Please support and vote. [[11:36:08]] For 278 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, the Act of Ukraine amending article 59 pr. 1 The Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine on Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Local Councils and Rural, Urban, and Presidential Proposals of 23.12.20 (Registration No. 3034a). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:36:55]] For 287 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on increasing forest protection, preventing fires on forest and water foundations, peatland and other categories of land, a second reading (registration number 3526). Someone will insist on the drafts, can we vote? We can vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on forest protection, fire prevention on forest and water foundations, peatland and other categories of land. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:38:10]] For 311 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of agricultural activities (registration number 4046). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:38:45]] For 245 Decision taken. The Deputy Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture, Visatsky Taras Mikolajovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u100	Dear Head, national deputies, good afternoon! You will have before you a bill to amend some legislation to encourage farm activities (registration number 4046). Two days ago, the agrarian committee considered the direction of state support for 2021. Four programs have been proposed to support farmers, small farms. Yesterday, these directions were presented to a professional association, a union of farmers, and smallholders. All directions are supported, but there is always one wish or note. In particular, what needs to be supported is that young people who want to register and create farms need to create jobs in rural areas. The government bill provides the opportunity to support Ukrainians under 35 years of age who will create family farming, farm and rural development In addition, the bill regulates land use on a permanent basis, and we know that this is unfortunately a ten-year pain for Ukrainian farmers. With the adoption of the bill, farmers who use these lands will also be able to use all state support programs, including interest-free return loans from Ukdrjfund. Thus, the bill will expand the scope for Ukrainian farmers in terms of using state support and development. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u101	Thank you. The deputy head of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Halimon Pavel Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u102	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The committee considered a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of farm activities (registration number 4046). The bill is a timely and important legislative initiative to stimulate agricultural development, especially in enabling rural youth to implement their entrepreneurial initiatives. The ideas that have been proposed are right and must be taken into account when it comes to the normalization of the composition of land, agriculture, namely the right to transfer land, which is owned by citizens, members of the farm, to the right of permanent use or to the right of ownership of the farm. Establishing the term "new farming", "implementation of state support to agriculture" in the form of financial assistance at the expense of the state budget in size and order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, whose head is under 35 years of age, including. The Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union concludes that the bill does not conflict with European Union law. The Antimonopoly Committee, in turn, has no comments or suggestions on the bill. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes a separate observation to this bill, which can and will be further developed in preparation for the second reading. In view of the foregoing, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council that Bill No. 4046 be adopted on the basis of the discussion. Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u103	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u104	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u105	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, the implementation of this draft law will allow the composition of agricultural land to be normalized, and in addition, determine the number of recipients of state support through the Ukrainian State Fund for Farming Support, as well as the introduction of State support to farmers whose heads are under 35 years of age, which will enable rural youth to implement their entrepreneurial initiatives and help stop the outflow of young people from the countryside. Objectives that will be allocated to the fund are proposed to determine the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. However, a clear regulation of relations must be prescribed as an important safeguard against corruption. Therefore, we propose to leave unchanged article 11 of the Law on Farming, which sets out a comprehensive list of such goals as well as farm holdings that are provided on a non-refundable basis. In general, "European Solidarity" will support this draft law in the first reading, but please take the above-mentioned comments into account for the second reading. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u107	You're an outcast. You don't? What about Valentine Alexanderovich? Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u108	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, farming has always been a priority of our political power. The Fatherland has struggled for seven years to allow the land of permanent use to be inherited or leased by farmers. The relevant bills are registered every year by the Fatherland, and in this convening, our laws on land of permanent use and allow these farmers, who have it, to inherit it and to give it to their heirs. And so involve young people who are actually going to do farming. But, colleagues, it was supposed to be declared, and yesterday a law was passed that would not give these farmers a penny. Yesterday's law was not about money, yesterday's law was not about supporting farmers, yesterday's law on how to support Ukrainian banks and compensate them for the possible failure of farmers to pay money in the land market. The direct support of farmers is important today when we talk about the open market of the land as of July, which is to help them repay the first contribution when they take loans to the bank. It is important for farmers, especially natural persons, that they are single-parent family farmers, that they give concrete support on a pivotal basis under mortgage or land purchase. They must be competitive with legal persons. And you have faithfully recorded the need to adopt the Law on the Support of Natural and Legal Persons. But for some reason, lobbyists constantly impose laws to support legal persons. So here are the individuals and the family farmers who don't keep the accounts, so they won't go to the banks, so they won't use the fund that you voted on yesterday. And this law is voted in the first reading. Fatherland supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u109	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u110	Please pass the word to John Adamovich Tchaikovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u111	Tchaikovsky John Adamovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u112	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! You know, we talk a lot about farmers, for their help, for their help in overall agricultural production. I had a meeting with a gentleman who represents German farmers literally two days ago, and after dinner we discussed for a long time what a German farmer had. I want to say that the German government, the government of the European Union today, supports farmers within 40 percent of the budget. What are we helping our farmers today? In fact, the license we issued with you last year, and today our farmer goes to tax collectors who actually impose huge fines on them, where the farmer can't move anything out of place. I think this bill is extremely necessary today, it's such a small first step. He's not perfect. I think between the first and the second readings, our group "For the Future" is going to apply and we're going to do everything we can to bring this law closer to our Ukrainian farmer and our Ukrainian farmer gets the most satisfaction from working with power and satisfaction from his work on earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u113	The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u115	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, we voted yesterday on a very important bill that. in the agricultural sector, which will allow small farms to be credited, farmers to receive loans and to develop the agricultural sector of our state. This bill, which we are looking at today, is extremely important for farmers, because it allows them to receive irreparable financial assistance at the expense of the state budget to those farms whose managers are under 35 years old. We hope that the adoption of this bill will stimulate the development of agriculture in our country, and what is essential is that these farms will be officially registered and will go to local budgets, because the newly created communities need this very much, so that their budgets are constantly increasing, because there are a lot of problems right now in the countryside and in the newly created united territorial communities. That is, the development of rural areas must be taken into account, and the cost is needed. So the Trust MPs will support this bill, it's extremely important for the development of agriculture in our country. We're going to apply. I think all the disagreements that are in the first reading, we're working quietly on the second reading. So we will support an important bill for the development of agriculture in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u117	Thank you. Are there speakers? Suffritch is motivated, and then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u118	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, well, it's a good idea, but they're doing the best they can again. Please tell me, how does the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approve a list of people who are to receive appropriate support? Is this not something that we can refer to and judge local budgets when we talk about decentralization? And the criteria for establishing appropriate assistance are also quite questionable and vague. That's why we think today this bill is a very serious piece of corruption and it's going to work on the principle: "Let's give it to the farmer, let's not give it to the stranger." We're against this principle of distribution. We are for transparency and for justice. And better than local budgets, no one knows how to manage an appropriate fund, that is, money has to be brought to local budgets honestly, proportionally, and then something can be expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u119	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of farm activities (registration No. 4046). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:52:29]] For 291 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. People's Servant - 212, Opposition Platform - For Life - 1, European Solidarity - 23, Parenthood - 16, Party for the Future - 13, Voice - 3, Trust - 16, non-fractional - 7. Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I propose to return to the matter of Bill 4410. As far as I know, all the factions are supporting him. Let's support the light industry and give it an opportunity to develop more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u121	Is there no objection? Can we vote without discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there a moment, or can we not discuss it? No discussion, huh? Dear colleagues, I'm putting the bill 4410 to the vote. Right? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending Chapter XI of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff on the Standardization of Imported Tariffs for Light-Industrial Goods (Registration No. 4410). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:54:09]] For 311 Decision taken. In general, I see the committee's decision. Is there no objection in general? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act amending Chapter XI of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff on the Standardization of Imported Tariffs for Light-Industrial Goods (Registration No. 4410). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:54:55]] For 307 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I suggest you come to the next question, and we'll vote after the break, there's five minutes left. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can we not discuss this? That's 4113. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on strengthening social security for persons with disabilities and children with disabilities (registration No. 4113). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:55:57]] For 331 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there's a call from several, I understand, yes, do not go far from several MP factions and groups to work without interruption. Or maybe there's an offer then and there's no different. With questions, but no different. Look, why don't we just take a break, and without the "Variance," and we'll be done in an hour. Do you need a "chain"? All right, talk to everybody. Okay, no breaks? All right, let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you. Put to the vote? Let's not put it in. The next issue is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that the defence counsel has access to a person entitled to protection. Is anyone going to insist on editing? It won't. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the access of a defence lawyer to a person entitled to a defence (registration No. 2063). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:58:12]] For 330. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act (as regards guarantees for the right numbering of consumers, end-users of municipal services, the cost of supply of natural gas, water, electricity, heat, utilities) (registration No. 3097, 3097-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Is there no objection? Please support and vote. [[11:59:01]] For 243 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, the bill is actually very simple. I'll just read it right now. But first of all, I want to thank my colleague and co-author Alexander Rafkatovich Abdullin for his co-authorship in this law. We suggest that if, in the judicial or non-convictional order, the cost of a domestic consumer or final consumer of utilities, gas, water, heat or electricity, the provision of utility services is wrongly calculated and above the contract price, does not correspond to the established tariffs or has been set up in breach of the bill, then the organisation that provides such services should pay the consumer a fine of 10 times the amount to which the wrong tariffs are charged. What calls for such a bill? First of all, the situation with absolutely cloudy and, most importantly, totally groundless tariffs on everything: gas, water, heat everybody knows, but the people of Alexander Rafkatovich and I were also talking about the fact that supply organizations periodically put out surplus payments, out of date, not on contracts, not on tariffs that exist, but above. If there are such cases, then any consumer can get compensation. We propose to enact the relevant law and give any consumer in the event that, in a judicial or non-judicial manner, an overpayment is established not in accordance with the contract, not in accordance with the tariffs, the consumer will be able to claim compensation on a 10-fold basis. We consider this to be fair, and we believe that this will avoid many abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u123	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Yuriovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u124	Honorable colleagues, distinguished audiences, tariff policy issues are one of the most important issues in our country today. And we certainly support our colleagues' proposal for Bill 3097, but in our alternative bill we have proposed a broader approach. What's going on today? Today, people receive crazy payments, where the wrong amount of payments is very often miscalculated. That's the first question. And the second question, after that, if a person fails to pay this payment in time, additional fines and pennies will apply to him. Dear colleagues, today housing-communal debt increases every day. People today can't pay these very stupid prices. And according to Ukrainian legislation, there is a rule that if a person fails to pay in time, they will apply pennies and fines. Moreover, this person may be subject to sanctions for forced evictions and removals. So the Opposition Platform for Life team is asking you to support the bill in the first reading and resolve the most painful issues. The first is to ban and abolish, more specifically, fines and pennies on the non-timely payment of residential services. And second, it's also the most important question, it's until 2030 to bring a moratorium on the right of a person to take housing for late payment of tariffs. Please take this first step towards establishing justice with tariffs in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u125	The head of the Committee on Economic Development, Lichman Hanna Vasilovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u126	Good afternoon, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People's Deputies! On February 3, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Development reviewed draft laws of Ukraine. On the amendment of the Consumer Rights Act of Ukraine (as regards guarantees for the right numbering of consumers, end-users of municipal services for the cost of supply of natural gas, water, electricity, heat, utilities) (Registration No. 3097), submitted by national deputies Vlasenk and Abdullin. He also considered a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws to guarantee that consumers of residential services are properly accounted for the cost of providing natural gas, water, electricity, thermal energy, utility services and the cancellation of the payment of pennies for untimely payments for residential services (registration No. 3097-1), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputys of the Royal Republic, Solod and other National Deputies. It is worth noting that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority makes observations on the draft legislation. The Supreme Council Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union, in its conclusion of 27 March, notes that the bill 3097 and 3097-1 do not conflict with Ukraine's international obligations in the field of European integration. The Supreme Council Committee on Budget Affairs, in its conclusions of May 18th, 20th, believes that the bill will have no direct impact on the budget. The Ministry of Community and Territorial Development, in its conclusion of March 30, comments on Bill 3097 and believes that it needs to be reviewed. In the course of the discussion by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on Economic Development made a number of substantive remarks to Bills 3097 and 3097-1 and decided to bring them to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, as a result of the first reading, to recommend Bill 3097 to return to the subject of the legislative initiative. Draft law 3097-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u127	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u128	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, our group insists that these two bills be sent to the committee. We have no right to impose fines on people who today cannot pay these tariffs. 73 billion dollars in debt. Seventy-three billion dollars today is the debt of the HKG. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't interrupt, Sergey Vladimirovich, please. The fact that you are abusing people with regard to today’s tariffs, which today raise the Cabinet of Ministers, the NCREKP. We can't do all this nonsense today. Today, we are calling on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to pay immediate attention, for the third time, to Donbas by lowering the tariff on electricity and transit, and also to lower the tariff on gas. I invite everyone to Lugansk to talk to us. When they arrive, they turn off the electricity when they cut off the gas when a person cannot pay for it. And then they take a thousand bracelets. So today, and once again, the Prime Minister and all the ministers are on Donbas. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luganshina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u129	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u130	Dear Ukrainians, to say that I am just surprised by the speech of my colleague in Parliament is not to say anything. We always owe it to the consumer. They bought 3 bracelets in the summer, sold 7 - laid on the consumer, earned 4. In Smily, people from 2015 each year (this is the center of my constituency) paid for the tariffs, for the heat, for the water, for everything. The firm that served them didn't count Naftogazu, the money was stolen, the criminal cases were broken. And people are paying again, but it's because of a subsidy from the local budget. We always owe it to the consumer! This is a historic decision that we should make today, for the first time, we give people the right to make sure that those who do so are held accountable, not criminal, but in their pockets. A tenfold increase in fines is just an argument that can be accepted and understood by people who make money to ordinary people year after year. So, colleagues, this is a very important decision. And I'm talking to those who are watching me right now, keep an eye on my hands. Ritorics can be anything, and you can keep an eye on your hands. Not voting for this bill will mean that you, people, no one sees you in this room, they only see you when you come to vote for or against. The MP's Party for the Future urges us to vote in favour on the first reading and to work it out in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u131	Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u132	Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland faction, head of the All-Ukrainian Association of Housing Owners. Dear colleagues, there was this writer, Mark Twain, a historical quote, "If you stole a bride, you'd get to play, if you stole an iron road, you'd be a congressional deputy." I don't want to offend anyone, fortunately, there are no railway owners here, fortunately, but I want you to understand what's going on in the country. Imagine a monopolistic company with a million consumers. And somehow, by chance, he's going to put 10 dollars more on every consumer, and 10 million dollars, you know, with our pockets with you will be pulled out. That's why I'm asking you, let's support this bill in the first reading, work out, and now quickly on a simple example. A year ago, the president of Ukraine, Zelensky, stood here and urged society to ask a simple question, and the government, what's going on, gas prices are going down, and payments are going up. I made a personal request to the NCRECR, to the Prime Minister for the case of the Kiev Euro Reconstruction. The banal company, 150,000 consumers of heat, put out payments equal to 2 times the size of the Antimonopoly Committee. I don't understand why the Antimonopoly Committee still hasn't completed this investigation. But another language was tricked into a huge sum of 150 million dollars. And it's not clear who or how they're going to get it back, and consumers don't even have the opportunity to pull it back. Only when the owners of these monopolies and leaders are afraid of both criminal persecution and ten-fold fines will we protect consumers. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u133	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u134	Please tell Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u135	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u136	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. Let me first say that the alternative bill 3097 we can't support today, that was the committee's decision. Cancelling a penny for non-payment of municipal services is a direct route to abuse and therefore the risk that most of these services are gradually bankrupt because of the inability to take a stand. As far as Bill 3097 is concerned, a key observation, and what the GNEU said, is that it is in fact entirely needed to be amended, not into this law, but into another law. We're talking about appropriate changes, and it's more legally correct to introduce the Consumer Rights Act than the Housing Services Act. The list and the names of utilities are not consistent with the list and names of such services in the Housing Services Act. The committee decided to send the authors for further work. The European Solidarity Political Party is being held up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u137	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the main focus of this bill, I quote: "It is the duty to charge housing services for the standards and tariffs signed in contracts." I mean, nobody's gonna count anything else for you. If anyone thinks it's not there, look, in December 19th we got 17 billion dollars for residential services. And in December of the 20th, it's already 28 in a flat place plus 9 billion. How does this happen? The counters were miscalculated — fines or other indicators. Cold batteries. More specifically, in multi-room buildings, the counters, which are public buildings, are spread out all over the apartments and so on. All these things lead to abuse in the housing and utility market. And I'll focus. The committee proposes not to support this bill. This means that we must not support the committee's decision and defend the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Look, the position of the committee is to send this bill for further work, to get the subject of the legislative initiative back to work. The position of the committee shall be the first to vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative to amend the draft Law on the Protection of Consumer Rights (to guarantee that consumers are properly accounted for, final consumers of municipal services, the cost of supply of natural gas, water, electricity, heat, utilities) (registration No. 3097). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:17:21]] For 209 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. I'm voting for a motion to refer to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Please support and vote. Excuse me! The bill is registration number 3097. [[12:18:05]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u140	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u141	What's the first one again? We didn't vote again. We voted: to send the author to work and position, to a committee that had just been supported by the Hall, Natalia Juryevna. Dear colleagues, we have many drafts that go to work or refuse. I'm going to call the bill now, if there's no comment on it, we're just going to put it to a vote. Is there no objection? Bill registration number 3091. Can we vote? I am voting for a motion to refer to a committee to prepare for a re-reading of the draft Law on State Environmental Control (Registration No. 3091). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:19:19:19]] For 311 Decision taken. Next bill, 3607. There's no objection. I am voting for a motion to refer to a committee to prepare for a re-reading of the draft Law on the Business Ombudsman in Ukraine (registration No. 3607). Please support and vote. [[12:19:58]] For 301 Decision taken. The next question is draft Law 4394. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to return the subject of the legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending the Law on Public Procurement and some other legislative acts of Ukraine on strengthening control and responsibility for violations of public procurement legislation, ensuring proper protection of the rights of participants in public procurement (registration No. 4394). Please support and vote. [[12:20:53]] For 311 Decision taken. The next question is 4358. I am voting for a motion to refer to the committee for a re-reading of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the protection of the health of the population against the harmful effects of tobacco (registration No. 4358). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:21:31]] For 309 Decision taken. The next question is the draft of Law 2595. Ready? Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to return the subject of the legislative initiative to amend the draft Act amending the Education Act on the involvement of private investors to address the problem of shortages of places in kindergartens and schools (registration number 2595). Please support and vote. [[12:22:20]] For 310 Decision taken. Next question 2604. Next question 2604, are you ready to vote? Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to finalize the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act to improve the socio-economic status of students in Ukraine (Registration No. 2604). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:23:12]] For 310 Decision taken. The next issue is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the restoration of justice in the area of pay to pre-school and extra-school teachers (registration number 2180 and 2180-1). Both bills are proposed to be submitted for further processing, so there will be a two-vote vote. But respectable colleagues, for the future, ask the committees to decide on one bill, and then on alternative ones to build an amended bill. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the restoration of justice in the area of pay to teachers of pre-school and extra-school education (registration number 2180). Please support and vote. [[12:24:39]] For 306 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to redraft Bill 2180-1. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:25:11]] For 305 Decision taken. The next question is the draft Food Act in general secondary education. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative to amend the draft Law on Nutrition in general secondary education. — Registration No. 2664. Please support and vote. [[12:25:54]] For 290 Decision taken. Thank you. The next question is Bill 2776. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law on Amendments to Article 44 of the Higher Education Act on the Support of Persons with Sports Titles to Higher Education Institutions (Registration No. 2776). Please support and vote. [[12:26:39]] For 310 Decision taken. The next question is 3052a. Is there no objection? I am voting for the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for the drafting of the Ordinance on the Referral to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the provision of the rules of law in force for Ukraine in part of the establishment of the pedagogical salary (registration No. 3052a). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:27:22]] For 290 Decision taken. The next question is 3033 a. Is there no objection? You're insisting on a review. The next question is the bill amending the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act (Registration No. 4213). Is there no objection? I'm betting on the voting proposal, as well as the honourable colleagues, the committee is proposing both bills for further work. One, please. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending the Law on Road Traffic (Registration No. 4213). Please support and vote. [[12:28:22]] For 307 I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending the Law on Road Traffic (Registration No. 4213-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:28:54]] For 305 Decision taken. Your Honor, with respect to Bill 4364, is there a need for discussion? No, it's not a rejection, it's for the adoption of the law. Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the Committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, draft Law on Payment Services (Registration No. 4364). The committee’s decision is given to all of you and the proposals are also mentioned there. Right? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:30:07.]] For 277 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, 12:30. Let's move on to questioning. But please don't break up, there are requests to the President of Ukraine that will have to be supported. Please prepare for the vote. The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Condratiuk Oleni Constantineni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, please pay attention! We have as many as nine parliamentary requests for the President of Ukraine, so please prepare for the vote. Thus, there is an open roll call to support Michael Bondar’s request to the President of Ukraine to sharpen the situation in the United Nations Operation Zone. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:31:09]] For 291 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:31:34]] For 295 Decision taken. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Michael Bondar's next request to the President of Ukraine for a critical situation in the energy sector of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:32:02]] For 292 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:32:26]] For 280 Decision taken. It is an open-ended vote in support of the request by Arthur Dmitruk to the President of Ukraine for the posthumous appropriation of Tokardzuk Irina Sergiyevni of the honour title "Deserved Artist of Ukraine". Please vote. [[12:32:57]] For 303 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:33:20]] For 298 Decision taken. There is open-ended roll-call vote in support of Grigory Mamka's request to the President of Ukraine to comply with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving the Activities of the State Bureau of Investigation. Please vote. [[12:33:51]] For 266 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:34:14]] For 270. Decision taken. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Tetjana Grishchenko's request to the President of Ukraine for capital repairs to the Corstostisian State. Please vote. [[12:34:44]] For 276 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:35:07]] For 268. Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by the request of a group of national deputies (Herasimova, Heratchenko, and others). A total of 15 deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the establishment of civilian military administrations in the Luhansk region. Please vote. [[12:35:40]] For 217 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Vote please, Your Honor. [[12:36:03]] For 193 The decision is not taken. I didn't get a request for 226 votes. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by the request of a group of national deputies (Cynuts, Gerasimov, and others). 15 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the application of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence order of September 18, 2020, No. 340. Please vote. [[12:36:40]] For 197 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:37:03]] For-167 The decision is not taken. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Alexander Kovalov's request to the President of Ukraine for the inaction of officials of the Court of Auditors. Please vote. [[12:37:30]] For-162 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:37:52]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by a request from a group of national deputies (Marykovsky, Mikish, and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the issue of granting citizenship to Ukraine, Grigory Pivovarov. Please vote. He's a fighter. Please vote. [[12:38:23]] For 282 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:38:49]] For 285 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, these are all requests to the President of Ukraine. I'll ask you, who's not interested in any further questions that came from the national MPs, to come out quietly. And the rest of it, I remind you, we have another question, "It's different." Thus, honourable colleagues, 128 parliamentary inquiries were made during the plenary week. Of these: to the President of Ukraine - 9; to the Supreme Council - 8; to the Cabinet of Ministers - 65; to the heads of other state authorities and local authorities - 41; to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine - 5. Ask the national MPs. Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of human resources policy of the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine on governance issues important to the national economy and security of the state-owned enterprise of Ukraine. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of response measures aimed at restoring the full functioning of public food establishments. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of a mechanism to provide one-off, non-percent assistance to achieve economic independence for a low-income family at the expense of the state budget. Alexander Ponomárov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing in 2021 measures to prevent an emergency on a self-driving sewage collection and power pipeline in the city of Berdjansk, Zaporijsk. Constantine Bondarev to the head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine on the provision of information and acceptance documents for the operation of apartments 1, 2, 5 and 7 on the prospectus of Lobanovski, 4-B. Constantine Bondareva, head of the district office of Solomon in Kiev, State Administration, to verify the facts and to require documents. Constantine Bondarev to head of the State Tax Inspectorate in the Thessaloniki District of the General Administration of the State Fiscal Service in Kiev for carrying out a non-planned verification of the activities of the Red Star, 4-B and the Red Star OSBB. Constantine Bondarev to the head of the Kyiv City Prosecutor's Office, head of the National Police of Ukraine, for the purpose of carrying out the inspection and reporting to the GDR on the commission of a criminal offence by officials. Yuri Boyka, director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Attorney General, to assist in solving the emergency situation that took place in the area of Kupyanska Kharkiv district. Anatolia Ostapenka to the National Commission, which regulates the state in the fields of energy and utilities, is the director of the Shareholders Association of the Kiwoblgas gas distribution system to ensure the preservation of property rights of the State by officials. Anatolia Ostapenka to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine regarding the provision of premises for the Ministry of Veterans of Ukraine. Anatolia Ostapenka to the temporary duty of head of the State Service of Ukraine to work on the practical application of current labour and employment laws. Dmitry Schenchev to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the supply of a computer CT to the Vovčan district hospital of Kharkiv. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, on the legal evaluation of the activities of At Poltavabolblanergo in connection with the conclusion of contracts for access to electricity infrastructure for the deployment of electricity networks and/or other engineering equipment. Bogdan Torokhti to the head of the government of the public shareholder association of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine on specific issues of the activities of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Paul Bakuntz to the minister of justice of Ukraine regarding the verification of the legitimate activity of the printed media. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide funding for work related to the repair of the road to the general use of Mirne Desantne. Groups of people’s deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the use of effective measures to address the consequences of an emergency that arose in the territory of the Chilean united territorial community of the Ishmael district of Odessa. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the need for a comprehensive review of Mary Mangul’s request to ensure that she enjoys social rights and guarantees. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to take effective measures to pay off the payroll of workers at the Bilgorod-Dnistrov Seaport. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General’s Office on the need for a comprehensive review of Vasil Kedik’s appeal to an improper criminal investigation. Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Office of the Attorney General, for the examination of possible misconduct by officials of the Tuzliv Rural Council of the Tatarbunar district of Odessa. Alexander Tkachenka to the State Audit Service of Ukraine regarding the possible misuse of the budget of the Killian United Territorial Society. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Community Development and Ukraine for the creation and organization of a cultural service centre in the Kivertske City Territorial Society. Irina Konstankevitch to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine for the integration of the historical and architectural monumental complex of Olika into the national project "Great Building". Groups of National Deputies (Kisse, Urban and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on issues related to wine and wine production in Ukraine. Alexander Gerega to the head of the Hmelnick district government for the implementation of the provisions of the Hmelnicka Regional Social Programme for the Development of Physical Culture and Sports in 2021. Alexander Gehrega to the head of the Hmelnick district government on the need to develop and approve a small and medium-sized farm development programme. Groups of National Deputies (Kitzaka, Gerasimenka, and others) to the head of the Žitomir District Administration for the verification of the reconstruction of objects under emergency medical care in the territory of the Žitomir region. Sergey Ljowczyna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to restore the social rights of Afghan veterans. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the likely gain of improper benefits through the abuse of the service position of the Rector of the Transnistrian State Academy of Construction and Architecture. Solomy Bobrowski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on unfair competition and supply of non-quality food supplies to the Ukrainian Armed Forces by a limited-liability company called Military Service Volunteer. The Party of Steps to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine for the restoration of the All-Ukrainian Photo Contest "Young Face of Ukraine" to celebrate the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's independence. Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for the speedy adoption of a bill on amendments to the Ukraine Code of Land and other legislative acts on improving the management and deregulation of land relations (No. 2194 of 1 October 2019). Igor Guza to the Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to remove bureaucratic barriers and speed up the transfer of House No. 24 on the street of Lutsky in Novovolinsk from the balance of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine to the balance of the Novovolinian territorial community. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for payment of arrears on salary to members of the Department of Health in the Shakhtar Sanatorium, located in the village of Pavlovka Volodymyr-Wallin district of Volin Region. Stepan Kuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on accounting problems between the state-owned "Guaranteed Buyer" company and the producers of electricity at the "green" tariff. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Director of the State Enterprise "Guaranteed Buyer" about the non-payment of ASD Lex's TV costs, which were sent to the producers for the green tariff. Bogdan Torochthi to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastre on specific issues of land administration. Bogdan Thorochthi to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General, on the use of appropriate measures to react to the restoration of the rights violated and to bring the perpetrators to justice. Bogdan Torochthi to the head of the National Police of Ukraine regarding the restoration of violated rights and the involvement of guilty persons in accountability. Sergey Nagorniak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat to the existence of local printed media as a result of violations of the law by Pat Krašta. Alexia Leonov to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for carrying out checks on credit agreements in foreign currency of consumers of financial services in accordance with NBA Regulation No. 168 and the Consumer Rights Act. Hennady Watzak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine regarding the need for public support, as direct producers of animal production, a budget grant and a special budget grant. Anton Yatzenka to the Association of Commerce of PrivatBank for damages incurred in the budget of Umań of the Umań district of Cherkas region as a result of the failure to pay rent for the use of the property property of Umań. Anton Yatzenk, acting head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy on the provision of information and copies of documents relating to the draft Act on the amendment of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Functioning of the Electronic Cabinet and the Simplification of the Work of Business Persons. Anton Yatzenk, acting director of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy on the provision of information and copies of documents relating to the draft Act on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and other Ukrainian laws on the provision of data and information necessary for the declaration of individual objects of taxation. Alexia Zmerenecki of the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for systematic failure to comply with court requirements by the State Bureau of Investigation located in Kiev. Oksana Savchuk to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine on the relevance of science in Ukraine through Scopus and Web of Science. Nelly Yakovljevoy to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister for the Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Areas on the settlement of the state funding situation of the ATR First Crimean Channel. Tetjana Grishchenko to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Community Development and Ukraine on the need for capital repairs of the Korostišovský ZOŠ No. 1. Alexander Kunicky, head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, for the immediate solution to the question of the appointment of the head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of the Southern District. Antonina Slavicka to the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the need to comply with antitrust legislation. John Shinkarenko and Antonina Slavicki to the Attorney General's Office regarding the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the resident of the city of Kilia Odessa district of Gavril Krivas regarding the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Taras Batenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the termination of the powers of the State Service of Ukraine for geodesy, cartography and cadastre in part of the transfer to private property and/or the use of land outside the settlements of the newly created territorial communities. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of funding from the state budget to support non-productive structures and workers of the Ukrainian Blind Society. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for State Support to the Prime Minister. Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for State Support to the Novorozdil Political College. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkarenka, Kabachenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the provision of financing for the work related to the reconstruction of the Provoksalna Square in Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk. Groups of National Deputies (Crowrukina, Koravchenkova, Zacharychenka) to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the need to protect the rights of consumers in the market, which is in a state of natural monopoly. Groups of National Deputies (Crowrukina, Koravchenkova, Zacharychenka) to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the need to ensure consumers' right to set up individual natural gas counters free of charge. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to eliminate discrimination against the rights of citizens affected by an accident in the Chernobyl AES, persons with a disability of 1 category, from the number of persons displaced from the area of unconditionally mandatory eviction. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the readiness of the Ukrainian medical facilities to save the vaccine from acute respiratory disease SOVID-19 and to provide medical services for vaccination. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the provision of food for patients with acromgalia and hypophysic giantism with the necessary drugs at the expense of the state budget. Jaroslava Dubnewich to the Ukrainian Minister of Health for Early Hearing Disorders. July of the Lighthouse to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of non-receiving housing subsidies for income in the calculation of government social assistance for low-income families. July of the Lighthouse to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Ukrainian Railway Association for the Restoration of Labour Rights of Workers of the Panutin Wagon Repair Plant in the city of Lozow Kharkiv Region. Marijana Bezugola to the Kiev City Head for organizing a public discussion on the change of the destination of the Obolonsky province, 18 in Kiev, and the possible result of this is an illegal building (a large apartment building). Larissa Bilozer and Mikoli Kucher to the head of the Accounting Chamber for the conduct of the pre-planned comprehensive audit (audit) of the National Academy of Public Administration of the President of Ukraine for 2016-2020. Dmitra Nalotova to the Director of the Health Department of the Poltava City Council for information on purchased medical equipment in 2020. Anatolia Kostuha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, head of the Zacarpathian District Administration for the Overseas Infrastructure Development Programme in the Zakarpat region for 2018-2022. Groups of National Deputies (Puszkarenka, Grishchenko and others) to the head of the Žitomir district administration for immediate action to complete the reconstruction of the central stadium "Polysia" in the city of Žitomir. People’s Deputies ( The rifle, Grishenko, and others. A total of 6 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to carry out a comprehensive verification of the status of construction of objects for the implementation of the programme of President Vladimir Zelensky's "Great Building" by the Provincial District Administration. Maria Ionova and Irina Herashchenko are headed by the National Police of Ukraine, the Kiev City Head for the establishment of objective conditions for the death of Demetrio Passalaqui and the creation of safe conditions for the Chinese to cross the railway track, close to the Kyivska Rusanivka railway platform in Kiev. Groups of National Deputies (Synutka, Heratchenko and others) to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the implementation of the Ukrainian Defence Ministry’s Order of September 18, 2020, No. 340. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Gerasimov and others) to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules, MPs and organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the application of measures to respond to violations by the National Deputy of Ukraine of the Bujan Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 17, 2021. Groups of National Deputies (Prashenka, Heratchenko and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the establishment of military and civilian administrations of the Luhansk region. Marina Bardinau to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of implementation of Presidential Decree 837/2019 of 8 November 2019 on urgent measures to reform and strengthen the state. Geo Leros to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the verification of information in paragraph 119 of the European Parliament resolution of 11 February 2021 on the investigation of the reasons for the delay in the modernization of the Zaporez nuclear power plant, as well as the possible abuse by the head of the DP "NAEC "Energoatom", which caused the loss of Ukraine's budget, the undermining of the state's energy security and the increasing dependence on the aggressor country. Geo Leros to the Attorney General for providing information on criminal conduct since January 25, 19th, on the falsification and issuance of documents to the State registry concerning the modification of the registration information of T.O. "Concord Company", in which is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tishchenko Mikolaajovich. Helen Copanczuk to the Attorney General on the use of measures to carry out a rapid, full and impartial investigation into criminal conduct. Alexander Kovalova to the head of the Ukrainian Department of State Protection on the events highlighted by the Program "Schemes: corruption in detail", with active participants from the heads of the Ukrainian State Protection Directorate Sergey Rudd and Igor Piscoon. Alexander Kovalova to the Attorney General on the inaction of officials of the Territorial Administration of the State Bureau of Investigation, located in Kiev. Alexander Kovalova to the Attorney General regarding the inaction of officials of the Territorial Administration of the State Bureau of Investigation, located in Kiev. Paul Bakuntz to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the need to ensure adequate funding for education in the 21st year. Romana Lozinski to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the update of information in the Single State Register of Legal Persons, Natural Entrepreneurs and Public Forms. Romana Lozinski to the Minister for the Development of Communities and Territories of Ukraine on the update of information in the Single State Electronic System in the area of construction. Romana Lozinski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the indexation of pensions for former civil servants. Maxima Berezin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds from the state budget of Ukraine to carry out capital and current repairs of the T-19-04 Bilopilla-Terne-Lipova Valley-Hadzic road in all lengths within the Poltava region. And the final request by Alexander Korneyen to the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for information on the state of implementation of the Ukrainian Government Reform Strategy until the 21st year. These are all parliamentary requests for today, fellow Members of State. Thank you very much to the responsible deputies who listened so carefully when I read your colleagues ’ questions. Let's get to the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u143	Thank you. One second, I have three announcements. And then I'll pass it on. Dear colleagues, we have three new interfractional MPs created in the Supreme Council. It's a European Green Course MP association. The headquarters of this interfractional union are Bilozur Larissa Mikolayevna, Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich, Nataluh Dmitr Andriyovich, and Plačko Tetjan Mikhaylovna. Welcome, colleagues. Next, an interfractional parliamentary association called Ukraine 603.7 was created. The heads of this interfractional union were elected national deputies Jasko Elisabeth Alexiyevna and Umerov Rustem Enverovich. And another inter-fractional inter-fractional alliance was created for self-defense for law-abiding citizens. Headquarters of this interfractional union are the national deputies of Sharassky Andriy Andriyovich and Zablotsky Marian Bogdanović. We welcome colleagues with interfractional connections.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to our last question today. Please list all those who would like to make a statement on this matter. Please record. Yes, please welcome Pusharenko Arseniy Mihajlovich, "Serve of the People" faction. Please, Mr. Arsenius.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u145	Thank you. Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! From this rostrum, I would like to make a statement about the situation that took place around the stadium of Ulyssa in the city of Žitomir. Now, think about it, 15 years, 15 years can't build it. It is a long - term symbol of corruption, a symbol of idleness, and a symbol of folly in the city of Žitomir. During the days, the polyssie football club's fans, the rhymmirians, went on a reasonable basis to the district government administration: when is the stadium "Polyssie" being built? And I know that President Vladimir Zelensky's Grand Building program has this facility, as well as hundreds of other social infrastructure objects throughout the country -- schools, gardens, stadiums that were actively built during 2020 -- thousands of miles of roads. And this program, along with the Big Restoration program, continued in 2021. We, the Jewish National Deputies Tetjana Grishchenko, Dmitry Kostuk, Sergey Kuzminy, Bogdan Kitzak, Igor Gerasimenko, turn to the leadership of the district government and the head of Vitaly Bunek to build this long-term. Today it is the face of our authority in the city of Zitomir. We have to put a dot on this and build this stadium. And to change the symbol from corruption, to longevity and nonsense to a place that will bring pleasure to the rest of the world's inhabitants. Where our police team will play. A place where both adults and children will come and take pride in their team and country. That is why we, as people's deputies in the framework of parliamentary control, keep the situation under control. As national MPs, we will make every effort and make sure that the object is upgraded, and the performer, the Provincial Regional Authority, we urge and demand that the object be completed in the shortest possible time and that our authorities are able to complete and demonstrate what others have failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u146	This is Dmitri Kostuk, "Serve of the People" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u147	Dmitri Kostuk, Zitomiršina. From this high rostrum, I'm going to talk once again about the uninterrupted event in our history, the 150th anniversary of the birth of a famous poet, the real heroine, the great Ukrainian woman, the Forest of Ukraine. Lesia Ukraine, who was born in Novograd Volinsky, who deserves us to be truly on a high level with honor to celebrate the Jubilee of her birth. I'm addressing the President of Ukraine, and I'm asking you to consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine, to the Minister for Culture, to the Minister for Regional Development and to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The city of Novograd-Wolinski, which will receive guests from all over the country this year 25 February, from other brother countries, from Georgia, from the Baltic countries, from EU countries, will host in the city of these guests to celebrate a poet's anniversary, which they know well beyond our country. In the center of the city is the Youth Center of the name Lesi Ukraine, the burning Youth Center. These are basically ruins. Surprisingly, it is also a monument to architecture that is protected by law, as the tablet, a memorial sign, says. The building's broken, the roof's down. You need 30 million dollars to be reconstructed. I think it is the money the state can afford to celebrate such an event, to honor the memory of such an outstanding Ukraine, which brings together all Ukrainians, all without exception Ukrainians from various parts of Ukraine. While the Provincial District Administration, the head of the District Council of the Jews, has done his best, we have failed preparations for honor. to the anniversary of the celebration of the memory of our outstanding poet. A complete road construction project has been damaged. Those projects that we've chosen, that were supposed to be implemented by February 25th, aren't done. Road construction is down, there is no money in the museum, the Forest Museum of Ukraine. So I ask the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I urge you to join us, to help us really, we're not ashamed of the fact that, you know, in another country, European national heroes are honored much more, probably more than we have, to our great regret. Such figures as Taras Shevchenko, such as Lesia Ukraine, like John Franco, as our other prominent representatives of culture and art, who truly unite Ukrainians, have and should deserve more respect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u148	Thank you. This is Dmitri Lubinets, Party for the Future. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u149	Good day, distinguished national deputies, distinguished presidency, respected citizens of Ukraine! Today, from this high rostrum, I would like to present a bill aimed at countering trafficking in human beings. Unfortunately, human trafficking is one of the most profitable illegal businesses in the world. And Ukraine does not stand outside of other countries. In our country, there's a huge number of organized criminal groups that are engaged in this illegal business, which involve our people in various criminal offences, and they're actually trading them. You just have to think that once the relevant department of the National Police catches them in hot, prepares all the papers for trial, then it turns out that they're just middle-sized companies that do, think about, legal terms, "donating people," "renting people," "giving people free of charge," "transfering people into debt repayments," and so on. Just think, they find legal grounds for evading responsibility. And unfortunately, very often our Ukrainian Femida, who has to look at all of this, probably closes his eyes and lets go or gives parole. And in fact, the organizers of these criminal groups that have to be criminally responsible, namely, sitting behind bars, they either go out on bail, or they avoid criminal liability in general, and they immediately go outside our Ukraine to go back and do the same again after a while. Therefore, the national MPs who drafted this bill, along with the Department of Human Trafficking of the National Police, urge that after the registration, after this bill has been put into the session hall to make us aware of our responsibility, and that, unfortunately, there is one of the most criminal and dangerous crimes against our citizens in modern Ukraine. Unfortunately, if we do not do so, such common phenomena as selling our girls abroad, selling our workers, even slavery as is now common, will remain. That's why our parliamentary group "For the Future" has supported the drafting of this bill and will call on everyone to vote in this session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u150	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, faction of European Solidarity. Please, Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u151	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. From this rostrum I often speak out, criticize the active authority, and regrettably there is for what. But what I want to say today is, what can we do, what positive steps we can take together to change the country for the better. And I want to give you two examples like this. The first example. During this week, I registered a bill on taxation of certain activities. The language goes, I call it, independent workers. We have hundreds of thousands of people in Ukraine today, it's tutors, translators, it's a creative industry, designers, babysitters, drivers, taxi drivers, repairmen who work for themselves, they don't have hired workers, but they don't have the capacity to register FOP. And in general, the registration of the FOP is queues, certificates, reports, the possibility of being subjected to certain penalties, and it needs to be opened, it needs to be closed. And for example, the translation person works somewhere, sometimes has a forgery -- translating, and it doesn't make sense to register the FOP. What can such a person do? Today, Ukrainian legislation does not provide any answer to this question, it does not allow a person to work in white, even for those who want it. So I proposed a bill that provides for a very simple thing, that every person who works in these fields who earns not more than 600,000 dollars for a year, or 100 minimum wages for such activities, can voluntarily, if they want to, I emphasize it, no one and no one is forced to do anything, but if a person wants to, register these incomes and pay taxes -- 5 percent, 1.5 percent of the military community and have white official income. It's very easy to do this because of the "Dia" app -- one of the good things that has happened in Ukraine lately, unfortunately, very few, but that's the thing. And I registered in "Acts," and I wrote that that month, 30,000 dollars earned, got 5% paid, 1.5 thousand taxes, 450 dollars paid by the military, and you have a legal "white" income. And that's very important, I think. Because some people need this for objective reasons: someone wants to form a mortgage agreement, someone buys an apartment, they have to show you where the money is from, someone forms a visa to the United States or Britain, and they need to show you the income, and today there is no such possibility. But there are subjective reasons. I think a lot of people in Ukraine want to live in white. But the state does not even give them that opportunity. And so we're going to make culture easy and simple: you pay taxes -- you live in white, you don't hide anything from anyone. I think we should do it and develop it. And I ask my colleagues to support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u152	Thank you. Mikhail Volintz, "Fatherland" faction. Please, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u153	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mikhail Volintz, "Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, not so often from this rostrum we can hear how the mechanisms in Ukraine have been applied recently after the looting of not only the state, but every Ukrainian, in particular. For example, early in the year, natural gas tariffs were introduced, which were 3-4 times more expensive than they were supposed to be. This is the first example that caused resentment among the population, and the country got a "tariff field." The government manipulated Naftogaza. But once again, I want to say that these tariffs are three times as expensive. Next. Since the beginning of the year, the poorest of the population have been left with the aid, and those who had to benefit from cheaper electricity who consumed up to 100 kilowatts an hour have taken it away and doubled the cost of payment. Now the next is the non-payment of wages, which now accounts for almost 4 billion dollars in the country. It's just that it's only fixed by the State Department, and actually this debt is much higher, and it's 2 times as low. And given that people get paid in envelopes or are illegally employed, it will be even higher than the amount of unpaid wages and looting of Ukrainians, those who work honestly and earn their wages, cannot feed their families, their children, and those who cannot pay the same utility bills, and then there will be a risk of losing their homes, and so on. Now we see a circus in Parliament for two weeks, when the coal miners have a debt of 830 million dollars, and in 10 days, there will be a billion 300 dollars, and a headless ministry. It seems that Mr. Yuri Vitrenco, a temporary energy minister, lost his authority in this status on January 23. We failed him twice here in Parliament. There was another attempt twice to make changes to other laws, such as the D.B.I. Act, then the State Service for the conduct of competitions. Impossible. And yet, when we insist on calling for the next meeting of the Supreme Council, the Fatherland faction, in order to work out all the mechanisms, to enact the appropriate laws for the introduction of fair tariffs, I know that the majority and the authorities will be pushing the Vitrenka first. Are you going to rob the country again, rob the Ukrainians again? Your Honor, we won't let you do this. And Vitrenko said he had.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u154	Thank you. Irina Borzov, the "Serve of the People" faction, is invited to the floor. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u155	Good afternoon! Irina Borzov, Winnitzkin, Servant of the People. Dear Ukrainians, today I want to contact the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and the Ministry of Health. What's the problem? Two days ago, I got a video of Artema from Winnitzkina, a young man who's in school, smart, talented, but who unfortunately has a diagnosis of PDP, disability and group. He is studying at school and wants to join the University of Donetsk this year. Sadly, though, Artem cannot give in to the UNO on equal terms with his peers, as it says very slowly and only in printed letters. Since the code of its disease, G8, G9, which is cerebral palsy, has not been included in a specially approved joint order since 2016 by the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Health. Many such children. Julia of Wrath, Vadim of Mogilov-Podilski, Artem of Winnitzkin, don't want to lose a year, but they want to learn and join higher education institutions. Dear Maxime Volodymyrovich! Dear Sergio Mikolaiovich! I have already made an official appeal to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, and I am asking young people, along with my parents, to make appropriate references to Decree No. 1027 of 2016 on the UNV for persons entitled to higher education. We cannot kill young people's learning initiatives and support the right to education as guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u156	Thank you. Alexander Marikowski is invited to attend, please. The "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u157	Dear friends! Dear colleagues! Today, from this high rostrum, I would like to tell you about legislative initiatives that are already going through first or second readings or second readings at the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use, in particular those bills that implement European directives. The very directives we have as a country are obliged to implement in our legislation the relevant Association Agreement, and the introduction and adoption of these laws by the Supreme Council is important not only for our full membership in the European Union of the future, but also for us to live better, breathe clean air, and also for us to have unpolluted water resources and so on. So there's Bill 2207-1d on waste management, which implements immediately three documents: the Waste Framework Directive, the Waste Disposal Directive, the Industrial Disposal Directive. This bill is now being prepared for second reading, soon to be put into the hall, and this important bill that everyone is talking about. Because it introduces the European waste management system, introduces the waste management hierarchy, establishes the basis for the manufacturer’s extended responsibility and introduces European requirements for burning and disposal of waste, and so on. The second bill, which is important for us to implement, is 4,167 on prevention, reduction and control of industrial pollution. A few days ago, the Supreme Council was unable to obtain enough votes on the first reading. He's been sent to the committee for work, and he's about to be reincarnated. It implements the Industrial Disposal Directive and introduces a European approach to regulating industrial pollution through the introduction of modern technologies and the modernization of the industry of the largest polluters in Ukraine. Next, Bill 2351, an important bill on protecting animals from cruel behavior. A directive on the protection of animals for agricultural purposes. The Directive on the Protection of Animals, which is used for experiments and other scientific purposes. I very much ask the people’s deputies to treat these bills with great respect, since we have both obligations to the European Union and, of course, to our own people. There is also Bill 3091 on State Environmental Control. Today the Supreme Council is rereading it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u158	Thank you. Dmitry Kisilevski, welcome to the word, the "Serial of the People" faction. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u159	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Kisilevsky Dmitry, 24th constituency, Dnipro. My presentation today is dedicated to the situation when one person goes against the system for the sake of the truth. With the truth not only for myself but also for others who may have faced a similar problem that one of my constituents faced. So I was approached by a citizen on the left bank of Dnieper, who was forced to defend his right to immovable property in court. His name is Onufriyev Valeri Andriyovich. His relative donated part of the apartment where the applicant lived and owned a piece of property. Sadly, such situations are not unique. The claimant was able to make the contract null and void because he had a priority right to buy this part of the joint apartment. At the same time, at the time of the national registration, citizens faced the following problem. In Cabinet of Ministers 1127 of 25.12.2015, paragraph 67 states that a copy of the contract’s duplicates is also provided on the basis of the court’s decision to register property rights in the case of transfer of rights and obligations of the buyer under a contract under which the property has been transferred to immovable property. However, there is no mechanism in law to obtain such a copy or a duplicate contract, which has led to the transfer of ownership to immovable property. Clearly, there is no legal basis for receiving such a copy of the contract. And this is in general contrary to common sense: If a person is wronged, how can he find this copy of the covenant that confirms this? The resident of my district was able to solve his problem through another appeal to the court, but the problem is caused by the very imperfection of the regulatory framework and requires an appropriate regulatory settlement. The resident of my district has repeatedly addressed the central authorities, particularly the Ministry of Justice, in order to address these inadequacies of existing legislation. However, inconsistencies remained. Likewise, as a national MP, I have applied, even with a parliamentary request, but the problem has not yet been settled. In view of the above, I would like the Cabinet of Ministers to address the inadequacy of existing legislation, because it can apply to many Ukrainian citizens. In particular, I ask the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to accept amendments to Cabinet Order No. 1127 of 25. 12.2015, to paragraph 67, which reads: "To conduct a national registration of property rights in the event of the transfer of the rights and obligations of the buyer under a contract whereby the transfer of ownership to immovable property was made on the basis of a court decision". This will allow you to resolve the differences that are now causing problems for Ukrainian citizens. I ask you to consider my speech as a deputy's address to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the marked issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u160	Thank you. Michael Bondar, the faction of European Solidarity, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u161	Thank you very much. Bondar Mikhailo, head of the coal industry subcommittee. A few days ago Law 4531 was passed. It's not about miners, of course, but it's about being able to do it. Additional powers for ministers, including the signing of financial documents. Unfortunately, this bill was dedicated to the President and is dedicated for only one reason: Yuri Vitrenco is a candidate for the First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy. Twice, this nomination has been submitted to the session hall, and twice already Yuri Vitrenko has not been supported in this session hall. Volodymyr Alexanderovich, by pledging this law, I think you're doing a "bear" service just because Vitrenk is so unloved by miners, because he's not understood in this field, and now they understand that their salaries have become such a different coin, a blackmail between their welfare and just the appointment of one percent of your people to this position. Besides, we were supposed to be working in the districts on Monday, and I've already booked my meetings, assigned, as they say, those responsible for it, and what I hear is that on Tuesday, most likely, we're going to be going to the next meeting to put out and vote for Bill 4531, but already with a failed amendment, which will give Vitrenk an opportunity or stay in. Minister, if his third session room doesn't support him. Vladimir Alexandrovich, don't be embarrassed. Find another candidate, an energy expert. For this reason, I sent you today, and thank you to the colleagues who supported the request. There are also suggestions and visions. I'll be waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u162	Thank you. And the last performance is today in our "Victory." Please, the "Serve of the People" faction. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u163	Dmitry Lubota, 177 constituency, Kharkiv district, "Serve of the People." Dear voters, I would now like to address the inhabitants of the village of Osinovo, which is now part of the Kupian United Territorial Society. Remember, last year you and I met at a round table and tried to resolve the issue of the further operation of the existing city’s solid household waste range near the village of Osinovo in the Kupyan district of Kharkiv. Under this beautiful name, the polygon hides a simple dump that for many years has not met any standards that poisons people who live near this dump. At the time of the meeting, the representatives of the JCG Department assured us that in the 20th year, a programme for the continuation of these ranges would be adopted and assured us that they would solve this problem over the course of the year. But time is passing, and we can see that nothing has changed since then. I want to inform you that next week, during a week of electoral work, I've already scheduled a meeting at ODA with the new head of the DRC. And I'm going to ask them to get information on how this question is being resolved in this time period and whether they have a clear action plan on how we can finally move from the point of solving this problem. It's a very painful question for me, I grew up in this town. This dump is not far from where my parents live, and I want to assure you that I'm going to do everything I can to get this question out of the way and finally we've forgotten about this disgraceful phenomenon, like this dump. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u164	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is all the speeches for today. We have concluded, we can sum it up, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-19-m0.u165	Thank you, Your Honor. As always, not everyone was waiting for the end of the 'Virgin'. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
