ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues, please prepare for electronic registration. I'm reminding you that once the registration is started, you need to hold the sensor button, press the "Z" button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:06:25]] There are 170 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, today is the birthday of our colleague of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. Let us welcome him, wish him good health and good health. [[Applause]] Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, and messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Mazurash Georgiyyyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Fedienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u3	Give the word to the national deputy Fedienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u4	Good afternoon, fellow workers and the public! Alexander Fedienko, political party "Serial of the People." I have to talk again about the painful question that he spoke about a few weeks ago in this room. This is about 10,000 Ukrainian children with insulin - dependent diabetes. These are children who need constant care and regular use of various medical devices. After his presentation in this room, he addressed the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Mr. Lášk. Let me remind you of the basic positions of my speech and address. The lives of children with insulin - dependent diabetes depend on the constant supervision and assistance of strangers. Without the necessary social assistance, children who are deprived of adequate compensation today will quickly face chronic complications. If there's not enough help for these children, today and tomorrow many of them are looking for hemodialysis and kidney transplants, amputation of the limbs and vision recovery surgery and other complications. In most cases, the medical advisory boards refuse children with insulin - dependent diabetes to establish the disability of subgroup A. The reason for this is the misunderstanding by doctors of Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 917. It is this decree that regulates the setting up of children with disabilities. In my address, I asked the minister to finalize Cabinet Regulation No. 917 and clarify it in part of the timely and just granting of disability to subgroup A to children with type I diabetes. I got the answer, which is a classic clerk's discount. I have to quote. "The basis for setting up a child's category "a child with disabilities in subgroup A" is a very high degree of health loss and an extraordinary (full) dependence on constant external care, assistance or dispensary supervision and actual inability to self-service." So in response, I was just quoted in the text of Regulation No. 917. It was that decision, change, and consideration that I demanded. And how does this answer explain why medical counselling committees refuse to grant disability to children who, starting with kindergartens, should receive multiple injections daily? Because of their age, these children are unable to weigh their own food, calculate the number of carbohydrates, calculate the need for a single dose of insulin, and inject themselves. Mr. Lazko, I was among those deputies who voted for your appointment as minister. Don't make me disappointed in this vote. I am again addressing the Ukrainian minister of health, and I demand that personal attention be given to this problem. It's too important a problem to have a discount that you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u5	The word is given to National Deputy Kostenko Romano Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, today we are going to consider the budget, and we have really talked about that now more than last year is given to the security and defence forces. But I would still like to point out that that's not enough, that we're a war country and we should increase our budgets in such a way that we can arm new weapons samples that could stand up to the Russian Federation, because now we've really given more to the Armed Forces. But if, given that we now have the Armed Forces to pay more for the same utilities, to pay more for the gas that we're going to put on our military force, there's going to be a lot of questions about whether we're going to have enough money to buy new weapons. Speaking directly to security and defence officials, they say that even now we don't give the minimum needs we need. I want to point out that by spending security and defence costs, we are spending only as the 30th country in the world, when our opponents, the Russian Federation, are spending 60 billion against our 5.5. What do we get out of this? First of all, we have the underdevelopments that are now in the Ministry of Defense. This is an apartment for our military personnel, it's a service apartment. Service housing, there are some parts -- this is the Burditch part, the Right Death, where they've been built up by 90 percent, and they've been standing for two years since the 19th year, and they can't be accommodated by officers. It's a question of providing funds for the preparation of a material and technical base of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The latest funds in the military were also available in the 19th year. That's why I have a request. I have budget rights, where we are increasing the funding of the External Intelligence Service, the General Intelligence Directorate of the Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Security Service now that we are reforming, and that is very appropriate, directly from the Armed Forces. We have to increase their budgets. We're a warring country, and we need to be financed as much as possible, because those 5 percent that are now stipulated in the National Security Act are not enough during the aggression with the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u7	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Volodymyr Viktorovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u8	Good afternoon, dear friends! Moroz Volodymir, 59 constituency, Donetskina. I'd like to touch on the topic of the heating season in frontal areas, in areas where there's no fire at all, there's no central combustion, there's no fertilization, there's no fertilization, there's no fertilization, there's no fertilization, there's no coal fertilization. People who are all sitting here today, as we say in the people, "on the rosette." Now it's getting cold, people are starting to turn on the power. We're gonna have to sweep the neighborhoods. We know that our efforts that year in the heating season had a tariff of 90 copies to 3,000 kilowatts. Today, these benefits have been removed from people in the frontal areas. This is Marianka, this is Krasnogorovka, this is Novogrodovka, and they cannot pay these tariffs today, which will be 1 bracelet 68. I'm talking to our government, I'm talking to the President: living in flats in Kiev, having a tan is not living in front cities where the war is going. The people who got out of there, they don't have jobs at all, they don't have wages, they don't have disabled people, they have pensioners there, what do they do? Please pay attention to this. If we're going to consume there, in place, 2,000, 3,000 kilowatts, we're going to have to pay about 5,000 or 6,000 dollars in the heating season. I'm begging and please everyone, pay attention, give people compensation, give people benefits today so they can pay for 90 copies in the heating season. You know, it's already the tip of cynicism when people vote for the game business here, people vote for the sale of land -- and today they can't allocate compensators to people in frontal areas. There are miners there who have not received a salary for the third month. How can miners survive in COVID, war, unpaid wages? What are we going to do? How can people survive in these areas? If you don't pay attention to them, you'll just be alive protecting people in front of you. The president and the government, pay attention to all the cities that are burning down today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u9	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kovalchuk Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Mikhailuk Galini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u11	Mikhailuk Galina Olegovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u12	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! In March 2012, the Ukrainian Act "On the Features of the Establishment of a Public Shareholder Society for the General Use of Rail Transport" began reforming the railway sector, and since December 2015 began its work at Ukrzaliznica. If there is a decentralization program at the state level, the railway sector is the opposite. Businesses were given centralized control, causing a significant deterioration in the situation. We have ongoing corruption scandals around the Ukrzalznice, the turn came to the formation of railway hospitals, one of them being the Odessa Clinic on rail transport. This is one of the best health care institutions in the region where highly qualified professionals side by side work with teachers at Odessa National Medical University. Modern equipment, professional doctors, nurses -- all of this has made the hospital famous in the country as a brand. By 2015, the network of state medical facilities at Ukrzalznice had been maintained at the expense of the state budget as well as the cost of working groups of railways. Following the inclusion of hospitals in Ukrzalznice, public stockholders’ associations in 2015 with the status of structural units, branches, the Health Center, the state funding of hospitals ceased, and the decline began. Depriving hospitals of legal personality status and excessive centralization of hospital management functions deprived them of the ability to self-sustain a medical diagnostic process, to comply with sanitary requirements, to manage personnel, and so on. The established branch has been sabotaging and continuing to sabotage procurement procedures for goods and services that have a negative impact on the medical and diagnostic process, providing hospitals with material resources, reducing the market attractiveness of hospitals. In March 2020, Billinska Natalija Jaroslavna was appointed director of the branch and immediately presented her programme to reform railway hospitals by selling them as a non-profile loss asset. Then, on the night of May 7, 2020, Bilinska changed the structure of all railway hospitals, introduced the posts of CEOs, and appointed her people. In fact, there was room for raiding railway hospitals, and all of this is done under quarantine. Dear colleagues, it is necessary to get the railway hospitals out of the Uzrzalnice, give them independence, legal status, order the Ministry of Health, establish university clinics or emergency clinics on their basis. Above all, hospitals will be able to develop, and Ukrainian citizens, including railways, will be able to receive quality medical care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u13	Thank you. The word is given to Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich, faction of "The Fatherland." Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Is he going to be? Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u14	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, last week officials reported that we have a 100 - day market for the earth. 100 days is a sacral term, and these days there was something that could be done, but a lot could be destroyed. The State Department reports that 28,000 contracts per 70,000 hectares [70,000 ha] of land. And this shows that the Ukrainians did not accept the market for the land. This is among 6 million pilgrims and 26 million spoilt lands. Where, then, are the colleagues, the currency tsunami? Where, then, are colleagues, a fund for supporting farms that has to provide free loans? Where, colleagues, is the support of the State of the first contribution? Where, colleagues, cheap loans? And where is the price that you said the citizens of Ukraine would get the best price? Where's all this? We have a price per land several times lower than that in the European Union. But, colleagues, when we look at Land Matrix's analytical report, it's an analytical global structure, so it puts Ukraine next to countries like Papua New Guinea, like Indonesia, Brazil. Do you know why? Because they clearly indicate that 3.3 million hectares of land are now controlled by financial speculators. And that means that it's not the citizens of Ukraine who get the profits, it's the financial speculators, it's the colleagues. You were talking about Cuba, you were talking about Venezuela when you said we had a moratorium. So now it's Papua New Guinea, where Ukraine is next to it and they don't control 3.3 million hectares of land. I'll tell you more, colleagues, they clearly point out that if agriculture continues to develop, because corporations are going to dislodge everything directly from Ukrainian land, 40 percent of Ukrainian land is going to lose fertility. Here we go, colleagues, a completely different agrarian policy. We have to report that we had a direct deadline when 100 hectares in one hand. These 100 hectares were to be a newly created farmer, a new farm. It has to report to the Ministry of Agriculture on the creation of millions of jobs, on incentives for those farmers to register as family farms, not to tax them on one hectare and drive them out of Ukrainian land, while playing with those financial speculators who are already earning profits and feeding their pensioners and their citizens. Consider what is happening in Ukraine with agrarian politics, and this needs to be changed immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u15	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Salichuku Alexander Viacheslavovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Raducci Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u17	Mikhailo Borisovich Raducci, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u18	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues! Guys, I don't have much fun with information today. Today, Ukraine has an average of over 18,000 COVID patients. Ukraine is now the second country, unfortunately the first country to top the number of dead. To date, 436 people have died in the past. More than 500 people have passed away. The turn of the Kyiv crematorium now consists of cathals for about two hours. Therefore, dear colleagues, I appeal to you, and personally to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: colleagues, we cannot ask people to protect their health, we cannot demand people to comply with quarantine restrictions if we violate them ourselves. Colleagues, 80 percent of the Supreme Council does not realize that masking is essential for execution. Colleagues, not the majority, but a very large number of deputies, the Supreme Council's staff, the committee secretariats, have not been vaccinated to this day without any counterintelligence. What do we require of people, colleagues? Once again, I ask for guidance, firstly, to have the Supreme Council's apparatus re-organize the vaccinations for those who wish in the Supreme Council premises, for the employees of the Apparatus, for the deputies of the Supreme Council and for the employees of the Supreme Council Secretariat. The other one. Yet, more carefully, demand the implementation of quarantine restrictions on wearing masks in the closed premises of the Supreme Council of all. Four. Colleagues, please, tomorrow will be the order to fight COVID right in the walls of the Supreme Council, I'm asking you to support it. That's the first one. The other one. Colleagues, we are most likely to be able to vote on the law today. Fortunately, there are innovative drugs in the world that have direct action to date against COVID-19 disease. In order for us to use them for our citizens, we need to make the same changes as we did with you last year, which allows us to use vaccines very urgently, so we need to make the same changes today to treat people. We need to make changes to allow the emergency use of these drugs. So I ask you very much to support Law 6121 today. And if we find voices, and if some people who talk about experiments don't interfere, then take it as a basis, and generally, for Ukrainian citizens to get timely quality help.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u19	Thank you, Mikhailo Borisovich. The word is given to the national deputy of Kostuj Anatoly Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u20	Please hand over Nekludov to Vladen.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u21	Lord Neklud, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u22	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Lord Nekludov, faction of the Servant of the People. Who of us doesn't know or know about the world-renowned Carl Marx chocolate factory? This factory was founded in the late 19th century by a merchant named Ephim, who successfully started making chocolate and candy, celebrating Kiev and Ukraine. In 1923, the factory was nationalized and renamed Carl Marx. Tens of thousands of kyans worked on it, on this company, increasing the production of chocolate. After 1945, after a terrible war with Nazism, where millions of Ukrainians died, tens of thousands of Chinese began to rebuild the business. Sleepless, undernourished, and worked all the time. This chocolate fed all over Europe, and all the Ukrainians were proud of it. Years went by, we finally chose independence, and sadly, in Kuchma’s time, Carl Marx’s factory was privatized by the future fifth president. He began to exploit it for his own benefit, and he started producing chocolate with a raging number of transgenders that killed and killed people. In his career as a political statesman and politician, he provided himself, the fifth president of the future, with a pretty peaceful life. But that's not what this is about. Since 2014, i.e. the eighth year since the beginning of the East War, the fifth president has continued to run his dirty business in the aggressor country and earn money in Russia while at the same time filling Russia's budget, which in turn spends money on weapons and ammunition to kill our people. Nonsense, cynicism? The person who, as President of Ukraine, lobbied for changes to the Constitution and for the course towards Euro-integration and NATO, continued to earn money in Russia. How can that be? Why did thousands of Chinese build, develop, and rebuild the Karl Marx factory? Is it for this fifth president to make money in Russia during the war with her? Is it to feed the invaders? Is it to make the army of the aggressor country stronger? Is it for Russia to kill our people for the money of this fifth president? Ostap Bender once taught Kisu Vorobyaninov: More cynicism, Kisa, people like it. Well, we don't like it. I think that whoever makes money in Russia, the actions of the fifth president, should be the subject of a review of the RNB because Roshen's activities are a threat to national security. The person who earns the blood of the Ukrainians and runs the squid games with the Ukrainians must bear the responsibility laid down by law. Thank you for your attention. Which will be my MP's request.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u23	The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Isaac Dmitry Valeriyovich. Passes to the Garden. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u24	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear Ukrainians, tomorrow I am meeting exactly two and a half years of the single rule of President Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelensky, the equator of his presidency, so today I am addressing everyone, including those who voted for Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelensky. Dear Ukrainians, it's time to admit we made a mistake. We chose two and a half years ago the end of the poverty era, and we chose a period of begging and poverty. We voted for social justice for the Ukrainian people, and we received an era of luxury and impunity for the President and his environment. We chose the power of law, and we got the power of 95 blocks. We were hoping to get new faces, but we got new faces in the old schematics. The Greens and Bakanova Offshore is being told by the whole world, and the Ukrainians are being deprived of the right to the truth and to hear the truth, because independent, truly popular TV channels are being shut down by an anti-constitutional decision of the National Security and Defence Council. President Zelenski spent two and a half years in his office to establish a personal dictatorship, not to fight poverty and beggary, not to fight to bring about peace in Ukraine. All this time he was not fighting corruption and poverty, but he was fighting his main opponent, Victor Medvedchuk. I fought, but I didn't fight. No matter how much he tries to force Viktor Volodymyrovich to give up the political struggle, he can't do it, and he won't do it, because today Victor Medvedchuk's ideas and work are recognized by Ukraine and recognized by the world community. I'll tell you how things were working out against Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich. In August 19th, the President hinted at a loud case that would end badly. Then, in January 20th, films appeared where Bakanov confessed how they had discussed criminal cases against Medvedchuk with Vladimir Alexandrovich. Then, on February 21, the sanctions against Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich, Oksana Marchenko, Taras Kozak, the closure of the canals. May 21st is a factory case of treason and arrest. On October 12th, 21st, a new case and a new arrest, and on October 17th, the President says he would hug Victor Vladimirovich Medvedchuk, but he can't do that. He can't or won't, because Medvedchuk and the party are continuing the fight, and this fight will end with a victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u25	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National MP Igorovni, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Kacny.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u27	Ducky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u28	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! What is in store for all of us today? They think that today we are going to improve their lives in order to maybe spend more money on subsidies in order to compensate today those producers that depend on our country's food industry, the damage they have to get from what they're going to get today for 40,000 dollars of gas. And you know that there's a lot of food at cost, where more than 50 percent is the price of gas? What a huge inflation that will be, what a rise in prices! Is that what a national MP today thinks about, sitting in a room in the majority? We see a whole new set of questions today. And the budget that will be considered next year speaks of one thing: the poverty budget, the debt budget. Are you and I thinking that we've provided for our parents, and we don't need to think about parents whose children haven't been given mandates today? And you know that last year, at those other rates, 70 percent of the average pension is a utility fare? What about today’s tariffs that will be in the country today? We're told that the price will not rise. And we know that today, for the population of OTG, they're willing to issue prices, twice as expensive, gigacalories, than those that were two months ago and last year. People today cannot pay such tariffs today. That's why today, "The Opposition Platform for Life," we've put in a series of bills that allow us to give all that gas of our production at the price that is in the country today, and that's about 3,000 bracelets with all the spikes to give to the population. Mix it with a cheap gas that we can get in direct supply. This is all that our people are expecting from us today. As a result, respected friends, respected colleagues, today are experiencing a crisis in the country. And what we see in hospitals, what we see in kindergartens today, people don't know at what price they're going to get utility bills. You're preparing the country for the dropdown today. I hear what Mikhailo Raducci says today, about the terrible things that are happening today. In order to close the budget institutions, we can save money today for the municipal services of budgetary institutions, gardens, schools, which is what our authorities today think. So, dear colleagues, "The Opposition Platform.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u29	Thank you. Fedina Sofia Romanovna. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. Then we go to work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u30	Dear Ukrainians, today is the birthday of Green Prisoner General Igor Pavlovski - general, who was in charge of the "M" sector, defending Mariupol. Today, war general Pavlovsky is in prison. Yes, yes, those accused of treason are at home, and those who have, you know, defended Ukraine are in prison today on the sentence of Zelensky. We met General Pavlovsky in the cold autumn of 14th, and he showed us from such smug military costumes that were then sewn on the airmen in the days of Yanukovich, stealing from the army even on paratroopers costumes. And the offshore 95 wasn't paying taxes, they were dancing in front of Putin and Yanukovic. And today this mindless power is not only struggling with battle generals -- it's struggling with chocolate. By the way, Roschen paid 12 billion dollars since the 14th year, unlike offshore 95, who paid 0 dollars to the Ukrainian army. Do you know why Zelensky is judging a war general today? Because he dared not only to clothe and feed the Ukrainian army but to allow himself to buy Ukrainian boats when Russia stole our fleet. These boats went to the military parade that he received, Lord's pardon, the Commander-in-Chief of Green this year. And, you know, he was proud of these ships, like the other weapons that were released, including the taxes of Roshen. Because offshore 95 paid zero taxes in the 14th year. And if I'm telling the truth, there's a Yusik who can always fix me up, but he never spoke. You know, on one of the airs with David Brown, then a volunteer who was carrying clothes into the army, because there was nothing there, we agreed to go to General Pavlovsky together. David, I think today is the best day to go visit him together, we can take chocolate with us, because "outshore 95" is nothing but disgusting shows for this country. And tomorrow we call upon all those who have a conscience to go to trial together to see General Paulowski and take him into custody. Dear General, happy birthday! It's gonna be Ukraine! We are proud of you, and one-time deputies will disappear like dew in the sun.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, there are two applications for a break with a replacement for the performance. I invite you to say Sergio Vladislavovich Sobolev. Ah, Julia Volodymyr's Timoshenko. And after that, the national MP of Sinyutka, and let's get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I'm asking for your attention in this room, because the information I'm about deserves my attention. An emergency meeting was held yesterday at the Presidium of the Federation of Employers of Ukraine. They represent essentially that sector of our lives called "economics." I want to quote you now, just listen to what they said: "The catastrophic situation in Ukraine's energy markets. In order to protect the economy and industry, Ukraine generally needs urgent, urgent action." And they went to the Supreme Council, to the government, to the President. Today, at this time when we're talking about something in the stands, hundreds of businesses in Ukraine are stopping because they can't fail to contract natural gas and they can't, if there are offers, pay that price, up to 50 dollars per cubic meter. I want you to think about it. Today the budget will be considered. Do you realize that there is nothing in this budget to support the country for the next year to protect our industry from the energy crisis? What Parliament requires. I quote: employers demand that Parliament immediately decide on the current situation in the energy market with an extraordinary situation under the Natural Gas Market Act. And they demand that in the decision in question, we identify solutions to the crisis situation, taking into account the proposals of the European Commission. Dear friends, neither in Parliament nor in the government - nowhere today, there is no action to protect Ukraine. In these moments, some people in Ukraine are not getting any heat right now. For example, Kovpak’s district of Sum: Sumiobbhaz simply excluded 80,000 people from the heat supply. All over the country. I want to show you the communiqués of the European Commission, where it is estimated that every country needs to do what it needs to do to protect itself from an energy crisis. We have a zero. I now propose to take immediate action by the Supreme Council on the introduction of a state of emergency in energy, where to write down everything in the European communiqué. There's tax cuts, direct subsidies, compensation for entire sectors. We need to act now. Don’t think that this will end without consequences, you need to act.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u33	Thank you. Another statement with a break for the performance. I'd like to give the floor to the People's Deputy of Synyth, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u34	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Honorable Members of the Territorial Communities and Honorable Ukrainians! We're talking to you about a bill amending the budget code number 6062, which the authorities want to put first in this session room. We all remember that decentralization was a fundamental success of Ukrainian reforms. Moreover, we have all heard from today's power support for decentralization, but it turns out that supporting decentralization from the mouth of today's authority is a lie. This is as much a lie as a reduction in tariffs as a vaccination of 50 percent of Ukrainians to Independence Day. It's just as much a lie as it is about Wagner. It's the same lie that came out of the mouth of power about money laundering in offshore scandals. Because what is this bill 6062 about today? And the authorities are proposing in this bill to deprive the territorial communities of real financial resources. Just think about what is proposed in this bill. First, the elimination of development budgets for the territorial communities. So any development of the territorial communities this government wants to stop with these changes. Second thing. You're offering 70 percent of the sales of municipal property to take into the state budget because you don't have enough money for big theft? What's more, you're suggesting today that the funds that communities have saved from education subsidies and planned to target education development should be taken back to the state budget. And as a green cherry on your rotten cake, you suggest that the Ministry of Finance, state administrations have the right to stop funding local budgets until the court's decision. We think such things are unacceptable. Today we call on territorial communities, local authorities to stand together, because it's not about politics -- it's about the real life of every Ukrainian, which is determined by the level of territorial community security. We believe that today the local councils should address the Ukrainian Parliament to remove this issue from consideration. We demand, I understand that this issue will not be in the dungeons of the Bank because today we support journalists who will speak honestly about it. And we're asking Bill 6062 to withdraw. It's unacceptable to engage in decentralization, it's unacceptable to take in territorial communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u35	Another statement came in demanding a recess with a replacement for the performance of the MP factions "Serve of the People" and "Trust." The word is given to Buganski Maxim Arkadyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, we have just seen one of the factions that has not long led the country to the full sugar, as if she wanted to tell us something about General Pavlovski. We all expected it, but suddenly we heard about the chocolate. It was unexpected. Then again we were expecting to finally have a story about General Pavlovsky, and we heard something about Roschen. I'm asking our colleagues. If you're worried about General Pavlovsky, tell us about him, not about chocolate, not about Roshen, not about Putin, where he hugs, we all remember, say about him. If you are, and we know that it is, it's the chocolate that's bothering you, please tell me about the chocolate. We know this subject, our colleagues have introduced a bill prohibiting the use of harmful palm oil, and we'll talk about it. Where there's chocolate, there's chocolate, we know where it is. Where the generals are, there's the generals. Please follow this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u37	Please, from the Motovlover procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u38	We ask that the Law 6062 be removed from the government’s agenda in connection with disagreement. Please put it to the vote and remove it from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u39	One minute at a time, please. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. After that, Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich. And then Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u40	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I understand that maybe now that the 6062 noise has been raised, they want to take it with silence. And I'd like to say, in this bill, they want to steal local budgets, narrow down local budgets. Already, right, colleagues said, article 71, local budget, delete, exclude it -- here's what the current government is proposing. Next: 103 articles. It is suggested that the remaining funds should also be removed from the local budget subsidies. That's what stealing is done under the purview of fiscal decentralization. In fact, funds are being removed from local budgets. Such shameful things should not fall into the hall, let's all say our position, all factions, so that it's no longer there. That's the first one. Second, we remember the situation that was in the budget last year when we planned to take the excise fuel out of the local budgets. And our faction then and others then insisted that this remain in the local budgets. Disgusting law, you can't vote it out at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u41	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The "Trust" MP insists that Bill 6062 be withdrawn now, because the question of the humiliation of the rights of local self-government is absolutely impossible. So we need to review everything about the formation of local budgets, subsidies, and so forth. But I'd like to address the honorable presidency now and you, my dear colleagues. First. I thank the Presidium for having her in protective masks. The other one. I would like to ask you, Mr. Head, to address your fellow MPs constantly: Put on your protective masks! Today, I'm sorry to surprise you, colleagues, there are many cases in the Supreme Council when our colleagues are sick, a virus in the session room. So please use all means to prevent distribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u43	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. I want to ask you again, too. Dear colleagues, please put on your masks. And don't take them off in two minutes after I say so. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. Then Taras Ivanovich Batenko, then Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak and Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, Bill 6062 brings us back to the days of Yanukovic when Greenie danced with him on the corporate side, and the heads of ODA sat in the reception room with suitcases, sausages and asked for any money to be allocated to the region. We have stopped this disgrace because of the decentralization reform, and you are returning the worst times not only in the region but also in the media with censorship. Our faction demands that this bill be put in place now, so that such a disgrace — the murder of decentralization — will never occur again in the session room. And we urge the media to talk about what is killing decentralization today, and to show journalistic solidarity with social journalists, who were the first to say honestly what is obvious: the Yanukovich's "darks" have returned to the media. That's where Tamara and I go together, and the servants go four or five to do the Bank's dungeons. We're not gonna let that happen! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u45	The only thing I'd like is for some synchronized proposal to come from the faction, because the national deputy of Blueberry asked me to take it off, and you asked me to put it on now. So let's define by vote. Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u46	Dear Mr. Head, your honor! We, the parliamentary group "For the Future" at the Conciliation Council on Monday, opposed this bill (6062) and suggested that it be removed from the agenda. Unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine didn't listen -- and he's in the morning. And today we spend an hour on this discussion when we could just take it off and work on it. But since it's not taken off, we think that all majors who in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a minimum, are majorists, and those MPs who are in pain for their major districts, for decentralisation, have to break this bill if it's to be put in place today, or if it's to be removed and thoroughly worked out. We will not vote for the death of decentralization in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u47	Please give the word to John Ivanovich Krulk. And then Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, and we go to the vote for Motovilovnik's proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u48	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We, as a faction of the Fatherland, believe that it is not simply necessary to film the bill that is now being proposed, the Budget Code. It needs to be sent to the government for work, because we can't agree when, in fact, the budgets of local communities that have always been in Ukrainian communities are being destroyed so that they don't exist at all. When 70 percent of the funds from the buying-in of municipal property are added to the state budget, they are not left in places where the local budgets are essentially left with their own income. But we do have an offer like the Fatherland faction. Instead of this bill, let us consider Bill Yulia Timoshenko 4680 that the gas of Ukrainian production should go exclusively to the Ukrainian people. This is what we will show the Ukrainians that we care about them. They took one bill -- let's think about it, 300 votes will be in the room, and we'll give Ukrainian gas to Ukrainians at this time when it actually is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u49	Thank you. Now Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. Then we go to the vote for the proposal of the national deputy Motovilovitsa. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, it's actually such a strange situation. Today the budget will be adopted in the so - called first reading. The Ministry of Finance, along with the government, along with other colleagues, has not yet prepared a normal edition of the Budget Code. I agree with my colleagues that what they have proposed cannot be voted on. And, I'm sure, and I'll never vote in this room. The other one. There is no understanding of the Tax Code, although we have been promised this for a long time. The simple question is, how are you going to compile the budget? At what calculations, at what numbers? Will it work? There are many things that are related, even some changes are needed in the Codex Budget. That's why I'm making an offer from us. You can take it, this bill, or you can take it out better, and you can immediately send it to the author of the legislative initiative. It's going to be both by the Rules and by the logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, national deputies, please take your seats. I'm voting on the proposal of the Motovilovt people's deputy to remove the 6062 bill from the agenda today. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:57:42]] For 290 Decision taken. This is not a question that we are considering today. Dear colleagues, since we are not discussing this issue, we are moving on to the question of the State budget of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act of 2022. I'm sorry, we're in the middle of something. I can't out of motive, out of procedure, we've come to the point. We went to the question -- budget review (registration number 6000) in first reading. According to the requirements of article 157 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the matter is being discussed in full. In accordance with the Rules, the next order of action is proposed. Report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of Yuri Juryovich Aristov in 5 minutes. The committee's response to the question is up to six minutes. Minister of Finance Sergey Mikhailovich Marchenka's speech will take up to 5 minutes. The minister's answers to the question are up to six minutes. Presentation by the head of the House of Accounts Valerius Vasilovich Packana in 5 minutes. Presentations by representatives of the MPs and groups - up to 21 minutes, 3 minutes for the performance, performances by the national MPs - up to 9 minutes, 3 minutes for the performance. And after that, the decision was made. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] See if it's just a procedure. If it's about the big future again, I'll turn off the microphone right away. Please give the floor to Gerasim's Arthur Volodymyrovich. And then John Ivanovich Krulka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u52	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, the great future of the "ministers of the people" cannot be spoken of, because it is not there, but I am of the procedure for dealing specifically with this matter. You said that, in response to the questions of the people's deputies to the Minister of Finance and the representative of the committee, you're going to be leaving in six minutes. A big request, as we have done before, to do so nine minutes later, to add another question. I will be truly grateful for this. Please support the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! Please, Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, and after that, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, let us turn to the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u54	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear fellow members of the National Parliament, we have just removed the issue of the Budget Code from the session hall. The issue of the Budget Code is inextricably linked to the budget issue, since it is because of the local budgets that their income was being cut that would increase the income of the state budget. I have a question, and how can we consider the state budget without having at least the first reading of the Budget Code? On what basis will this budget be formulated and adopted? Just as we don't have in the session room of the Tax Code, because 5,600 is an absolutely unacceptable law that stands for tomorrow, which essentially robs entrepreneurs. So I would like to say that the budget can be considered when we have a resource base, namely the Budget Code in the first reading and the Tax Code, which provides an understanding of what the income will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u55	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich. And then we're going to continue to consider the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u56	Look, Ivan Ivanovich has just sounded right, we've just broken the Budget Code, but we have a draft State Budget Act, and we can't look at it right now, because Minfin has already broken the State Budget Act on the basis of these changes to the Budget Code. It needs to be redesigned and actually altered in terms of revenue, these are the corresponding apps. They have to be changed. Or how, then, were we to consider today? It is clear that Kabmin purposefully passed Bill 6062, which already has the corresponding appendices in Bill 6,000. From this point of view they have now, the minister of finance under the transcript to sound and say whether the bill 6062 relates, the parameters relating to the income of local budgets, inter-budget transfers and so on, to the body of the law 6,000. Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich, this is an important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u57	I'm going to give Daniel Alexanderovich another procedure. But what I'm trying to say is there's going to be a report by both the committee heads and the finance minister. Plus, I think we'll listen to the proposal to increase the question by three minutes to each reporter. You will have the opportunity to ask your colleagues all the questions that concern you. Danilo Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u58	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, today, on a big budget day, we are looking at a first reading draft of the State Budget for 2022. A consultation was held with the finance minister on the related bill. Never mind, we can look at this draft budget. In addition, tomorrow 5600 is a resource bill that we are with you, I hope, will be adopted in the second reading and will form the basis for the second reading of the budget. There's no problem. Let's give up the manipulations, the politics, and take care of the things that are needed in the end for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question. The Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues Yuri Yuriovich Aristov is invited to report on the findings and proposals and results of the review of the State Budget project. Please, Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u60	Dear Ruslane Alexiyovich, distinguished national deputies, the Committee on Budget Affairs prepared a bill on the State Budget for the year 2022 before the first reading. The bill is designed to take into account the findings of the Court of Auditors and the General Expert Office. The Committee concludes with a general analysis of the provisions and indicators of the bill, including a comparison with the current year and an assessment of the conformity of the rules of the Budget Code and other legislation. In preparing the bill for the first reading, the Committee, with the participation of the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, reviewed 3,000 284 of the proposals made at the proper time by the National Deputies and Committees. However, it should be noted that individual proposals do not meet the requirements of the Rules of Balance. Some national MPs have made proposals, only formally balanced. The proposed sources for additional expenditure are not properly supported by calculations, nor can they be considered realistic. Individual proposals include amendments to other laws, although the State Budget Bill does not have the same status under the Rules. According to the previous estimate, 80 trillion dollars is needed to take into account these proposals. Based on the committee’s work, the committee prepared a draft Supreme Council Regulation on the conclusions and proposals for a bill and a table of proposals for legislative initiatives. The committee proposes to take fully or in part 1 thousand and 501 proposals into account and to reject 1 thousand and 783 proposals. In particular, support proposals to clarify the specific provisions of the bill in order to harmonize them with the rules of the Budget Code; increase or anticipate public budget spending on measures to combat COVID-19 during the training process in general secondary education institutions; purchase of food and food facilities for general secondary education institutions; organisation of public investment projects by setting out expenditure at the level of the current year; implementation of the State-wide Water for Ukraine; provision of airport infrastructure; implementation of socio-economic development measures for individual areas; implementation of infrastructure projects and development of socio-cultural objects. The source of additional expenditure is the increase in VAT revenues from imported goods. At the same time, the committee suggests that the government be entrusted with the second reading to deal with the issue of raising public social standards, particularly the minimum wage and minimum wage, arising from the financial capacity of the State. Increases in individual expenditure, in particular in the areas of education, medicine, ecology, science, culture, sport, economic development, infrastructure, according to the proposed proposals, based on the available financial resources of the budget and the assessment of the soundness of the need for funds; adequate financial provision for the implementation of the President's Decree on the raising of salaries for health workers; an increase in the percentage of the income of natural persons falling under local self-government budgets for the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding on Addressing Issues in the Field of Heat Energy and Hot Water. In addition, the draft decree entrusts the Government, when preparing the draft for second reading, with further processing of the rejected proposals of the National Deputies and Committees of the Supreme Council in the corresponding table of proposals. In view of the above, the Committee on Budget Affairs recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the draft Regulation 6,000-P on the conclusions and proposals of the bill as a whole. Please support the committee's decision. With the above-mentioned decree adopted, the State Budget Bill for 2022 will be considered to be adopted in the first reading. The adoption of such a decision will allow the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare a draft for second reading, taking into account the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council. Thus, the final resolution of the key budgetary issues for the following year will take place after the Government submits a draft to the Supreme Council, which has been finalized for the second reading of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u61	Thank you, Yuri Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, nine minutes per question to each reporter. People's deputies would like to sign up for a question to the reporter. Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u63	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u64	Under rising gas prices, industries in most parts of the world are moving to oil products. This causes increased demand, and as a result of an increase in the price of a barrel of oil, it's already up from 64 to 85, it's projected to be 100. In the Ukrainian case, this will have a disastrous impact on the trade balance of Ukraine. And already in the energy crisis, it stopped the export sectors of the Ukrainian economy, but in the countries of the European Union they announced new support packages for industry rescue. What does the monarchy offer today, not once in the future? And how are these measures reflected in the 2022 State Budget project?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u65	The budgetary conclusions that you have to see in the project are all the proposals that have been made by the National Deputies and the Committees. And we can say today that practically at all of the proposals of the people's deputies of all factions, that's 1,000 500 proposals that have been taken into account. Such suggestions. Give me the correct number. So it's hard for me to answer if I don't have a clear offer of what it sounds like.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u66	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Tischenk Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u67	Hello! We have a proposal and a question: why is it that Ukraine is not developing a strategy for the Energy Efficiency Fund today? My deputies and I were giving the budget committee permission from our IFI for energy efficiency, and we were denied. And today, the strategy works, but it works for the Ministry of Regional Policy, it doesn't work. So today we're going to study exactly the proposals that come from the budget committee, and we have a lot of questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. The energy efficiency fund, unfortunately, doesn't work, that's what I confirm. But it is only possible to change the working conditions of this fund with our partners in the European Union. So your proposals are to address the issue of energy efficiency, they're in the government's orders, you can see them there.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u69	Thank you. The word is given to Nalitov Dmitry Alexanderovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u70	Please pass the word to Michael Laby.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u71	Michael Laba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u72	Good afternoon! Yuri Juryovich, many claims are likely to come from the mayoral constituencies to the minister of finance. And as you've already said, before the second reading, we're going to work on the Cabinet of Ministers on specific assignments, and I'd like to emphasize to the finance minister who's here, please take all the strategic plans of the President, the government and the Supreme Council into one concept. This is about planning to build ten airports by 2023, to rebuild and rebuild, which is important for logistics in Ukraine. And we see that in the budget it's pretty small. And so on many things that relate to regional politics. Please take it into account, ask the finance minister to edit the second reading of all these changes and consider the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. I can confirm that in the Committee's conclusions, the Government's mandate is to consider increasing the Regional Development Fund for Regional Programmes. There's a job planned at the President's Office. I hope that all the proposals we've made on these projects, "Great Building," I think the Ministry of Finance will implement, because, I confirm Danil Alexanderovich's position, Bill 5600 will provide resources, opportunities to implement your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u74	Thank you. The word is given to Slavic Deputy Antonini Kerimovni, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u75	Please give the floor to your colleague Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u76	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u77	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. It's nice to see a smile from the lobby. I wanted to speak to the head of the committee about the 6062 that we talked about today regarding local budgets, the committee said it made a decision to take as a basis, obviously this is the position of such a committee. In this regard, I already have a budget question about what amount (and since you have a budget committee, I have questions, and I would like to hear the answers in figures), what is the amount or amount of local income, local budgets planned for next year? What is the volume of inter-budget transfers? And third, what's the total share of them in the budget? For what I'm asking these numbers, it's important for us to understand whether they're shrinking or growing compared to the previous period, with this year, with the current year, and with others, with the past. And one more question is going to be the fragmentation of the district funding approach, because you're giving a lot of money to individual deputies for socio-economic development, and nothing to others. What determines the selectivity of your committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u78	Thank you so much for the questions, I'll be right back. As far as the budget code is concerned, yes, we were to consider it and take it as a basis today. Because I think we had the opportunity for a second reading to make proposals and to refine them in a way that was acceptable. But we've decided to remove this question, well, that's a proposal from the hall. As far as socio-economic development is concerned, this year it is proposed to increase its volume. And the distribution, as you know, is the commission of the Ministry of Finance, the decision is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u79	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Kostenek Roman Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u80	Please give me the word of Inni Sowsun.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u81	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u82	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I will continue to ask my colleague about the cost of energy efficiency measures. Now we see how critical the tariff situation is. We also know that effective energy conservation measures allow people to save up to 50 percent of the cost of their payment. Instead, for the next year you offer to invest in energy efficiency, especially when compared to road costs. Mr. Head of the Committee, please tell me, do you consider the ratio of how much you propose to invest in roads and how much you propose to invest in energy efficiency measures to reduce payments for Ukrainian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u83	Thank you for asking. Answer the next question. Building roads, as shown last year, is jobs, it's increasing logistics. So comparing the costs of these two programs is incorrect, first of all. I agree with you that launching the same energy efficiency program as today's Big Building is appropriate. In the Committee's conclusions, there are proposals, more specifically, for the Ministry of Finance to work on this issue and for the second reading, by increasing the costs of these programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the statement by the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs has ended. Yuri Yuriovich, please take your place. The speech is given to the finance minister of Ukraine, Sergio Mikhailovich Marchenka, within 5 minutes, and then nine minutes after that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u85	Dear Ruslan Alexiovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! Almost a month ago, the government presented to you a project of the State Budget for 2022, which had a clear basis: the budget of investments in human beings, in the country, in the future. During this time, you and I were able to work closely on it, there were numerous discussions about the country's assets, experts, profile associations, international partners. I want to assure you that as a result of these discussions, we have once again found that the budget for 2022, the draft budget, is completely real, balanced and real to implementation. As part of the work of the International Monetary Fund Mission, we also discussed the draft budget for 2022. The budget project has found a positive response because it fully meets the criteria of balance and reality of implementation, and it is clearly in line with the program that we are doing with you. First. This budget was based on the Budget Declaration that we jointly adopted with you, that is, this budget already had a clear basis on which we went. It takes into account the strategic directions of Ukraine's development, as defined by the President of Ukraine, the Parliament and the Government. As Minister of Finance, I am personally responsible for this document. And I want to assure you that the draft budget provides sufficient funds to finance all the priority needs of the state within the framework of current legislation, current tax legislation and within the framework of current budgetary legislation. This is the answer to the question as to whether Bill 6062 was affected, which was postponed. The budget rate of 6,000 is not affected. So please don't ask that question again. But I would like to have a broader discussion on the Budget Code, because we think we have some pretty serious arguments and we're not going to let ourselves manipulate the Budget Code. At the same time, in line with the requirements of the Budget Code, more than 3,000 proposals were made to the draft budget for a record amount of more than 86 trillion dollars. This is essentially an extra 57 budgets. In the fruitful cooperation of representatives of Parliament, the Ministry of Finance, Deputies and factions, we worked together on the draft Supreme Council Resolution on Conclusions and Proposals for a draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2022. There are initiatives to increase spending by 6.5 billion dollars. This includes additional financing for the development of areas, additional funding for infrastructure projects, development of airports, counter-guides, implementation of the Drinking Water programme of Ukraine, and development of social and cultural objects. The Ministry of Finance, if you support the budget conclusions and proposals, will work hard and will try to take them into account, depending on the priority costs and the potential of the income part. Subject to Parliament's approval of the 5600 bill, this is quite real. For the second reading, we're going to go out with you on a more quality document with an expanded investment component. I want to thank all the people's deputies for their productive discussion and understanding of the importance of budget balance. I hope that the country's main financial document will be supported by you. And according to the terms provided for in the Budget Code, we are prepared to redraft it and put it on second reading for the general vote. Thank you for your attention. Please support the State Budget Bill for 2022. Ready to answer all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a question to the Minister of Finance. Please give the floor to the national deputy Nemiri Grigori Mikhajlovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u87	Please pass the word to colleague Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u88	Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u89	Sobolje, Fatherland. Mr. Minister, we have carefully analyzed all the changes made by the profile committee that are recommended and which are necessary for consideration. Please tell me, why don't we see a separate antiquities fund, as it was in the previous budget, where we have to understand clearly how much money will go directly to the direct programs, to support small businesses, to work under the lockdown? Why do we not see in the budget at all the individual programs associated with the world’s energy crisis? These are the funds that have to go to support individual industries, individual enterprises that are over-expenditures. If we didn't see that, could you define these two key articles as what we can find in the draft budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. In fact, the draft budget does not provide for the creation of different funds: cadres, antiquities. Because in two years of fighting the pandemic, the government already understands clearly what measures are being taken to finance the program. We have no uncertainty about this. In particular, the Health Guarantees Programme provides an additional 22 billion dollars for the fight against the pandemic. In particular, funds are provided specifically at schools for anti - epidemic measures. In particular, funds are provided in other ministries and services related to the fight against the pandemic. So to say that there's no COVID, that's not true. Costs are higher than this year than they were in 2020. And we have a clear understanding of how we can further address these issues if we need to. It's about supporting business. We have the only business support mechanism is to compensate interest rates on loans and the 5-7-9 business lending program. Other direct forms of business support are neither predictable nor predictable, because the budget is not the source to finance business development. But in the lending part, we're ready to lay the shoulders of a business that suffers from high energy prices, including energy. We're ready to refinance the loans at 0 percent of the rate, we're ready to lend new loans. And I think the business that worked with 5-7-9 clearly understood its effectiveness. As of now, some 65 billion dollars of credit have been issued. So business can use this form of support under difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u91	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Nalitov Dmitry Alexanderovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u92	Good afternoon. Intruder Dmitry, Mayor of Poltava. I wanted to ask you about the new budget programs for the Ministry of Health, which is how much funding is planned. I see here some important articles on the creation of a modern clinical base for cancer treatment at the National Cancer Institute and the construction of the clinic and simulation center of the Ukrainian Medical Dental Academy, located at Poltava Street, Schevchenka Street, 23. The question is whether funding is planned next year? Because these simulation center projects have been the winner of several investment projects for three years now, but he never got the funding. This is a new modern base for medical training and training. If necessary, we can, along with the medical committee, with the Education Committee, come to you, explain the importance of such measures. And is it possible to finance this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u93	Thank you for asking. Of course, the actions and programs financed this year are about investment projects, and they will be redistributed. Because in fact, between the first and second readings of this program, there will be costs added to the budget conclusions, and, in particular, at the National Cancer Institute, there will be additional funds, including costs, we have already foreseen, funds will be found, and at the institution's listed actions, which you've pointed out. So I do not see any questions in the area of health care. Health protection for the following year is a priority, a priority of government, a priority of the President of Ukraine, and a priority of parliament. So all the funds that are and will need to be invented for health care, including the strengthening of the material and technical base, the purchase of the necessary equipment, they either will, or will be found between the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u94	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Ustenko, National Deputy, I apologize to Ustenka Alexi Olegovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u95	Good afternoon, Minister. Two very important questions. The first is the question of subsidies. Please tell us, is that really enough subsidy money, because we understand that energy prices this year, the backgrounds actually beat records? And the second question is about our debt policy. In fact, we realize that today you're putting money at a lower rate than before. Tell me, can we continue to count on our expensive "short" money to be able to borrow before that, we can substitute for cheaper and more "long" money, because objectively, we've already got this situation where the debt burden on the state was large enough? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u96	Thank you for asking. Let's start with subsidies. Understanding the potential shocks of high energy prices, the government has worked with you on a draft of the 2021 bill, No. 6052, which you supported, thank you for that. The bill provided additional subsidies, a grant programme of 12 billion dollars. I want to tell you that 9 billion dollars out of 12 is actually for advance subsidies in 2022. We believe that the amount invested in subsidies is sufficient for the heating season of 2021-2022. As for deficits and government debt. We have consistently pursued policies to reduce the government's debt in a stable way. We're going to see a 2% reduction in the budget deficit, from 5.5 percent this year and 3.5 percent next year. This will, in particular, allow us to strengthen our debts and performance. We can borrow at lower rates. The structure of debt is also changing. In this year’s debt structure is dominated mainly by annual, two - year, and three - year - old instruments, which means that we give up the practice of short - term borrowing. And the borrowing rate is constantly approaching those levels that account for the National Bank's accounting policy, are marketable and acceptable. That's why we think that the level of debt policy at this moment is quite active, and it's being done with the interests of the state of Ukraine and the generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u97	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Sowsun Inni Romanovni. And that's the ultimate question for the minister of finance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u98	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Mr. Minister, two questions, please answer both of you in full. Question one. I'm going to ask you again, do you think it's necessary to redirect some of the resources to energy efficiency measures? Because this area is now critically underfunded. The second question is about education. Mr. Minister, I remember that when you were deputy minister of finance, a legendary story happened when you had students indignantly dropped the cake because you were for reforming the scholarship system. Now all I'm hearing from you about education is that you're planning to raise scholarships to students. But I don't hear any steps in terms of how much you plan to invest in teachers who are currently escaping from universities, in teachers who don't have enough money to raise their qualifications, I'm not talking about raising their salaries anymore. And our children who have lost two years of distance learning, but I don't see any steps by the government, no funding to deal with the effects of the pandemic in education. I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u99	Thank you for asking. You know, we consistently solve problems that arise. But in terms of energy efficiency problems, it was a long time ago. A suitable fund was created. The following year, this fund will receive a substantial share of government funding. And along with other partners, this fund will allow us to carry out those energy efficiency measures that we can allow. The next question is about scholarships, about scholarships in education. In addition to 2021, 17 billion are allocated to the education program, which has increased significantly in the education program. Teachers, teachers. Indeed, this area needs reform. You know, we're in a state-of-the-art organization. And the question of defining new funding mechanisms for the education sector, apart from schooling or public education at the first and second levels, has also matured. And we will actively communicate these issues with the Ministry of Education, put our safety nets and demand through financial mechanisms to reform the education sector, including, as we did with you in the scholarships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u100	Thank you, Prime Minister. Take your place, Sergey Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the speech is given to the head of the House of Auditors, Valery Vasilovich Puckan. Please, Valery Vasilovich, in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u101	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, national MPs, members of the government! The Court of Auditors carried out an expert study on the draft State Budget Act for the 22nd year and sent the Supreme Council the relevant conclusions. I'll stop at some of them. First. The government first introduced the Budget Declaration for three years. And the State budget of 2022 should be shaped to take into account its indicators and defined strategic orientations. Regrettably, however, the budget expenditure for individual arrangers does not correspond to the limits set out in the Budget Declaration. The other one. The government is predicting an increase in GDP by 3.8 percent. We estimate that this is somewhat optimistic. The dynamics of the major economic indicators this year, trends in world markets, indicate that such growth may not take place. The yellow deterioration of Ukraine's economic forecast from the IMF only confirms this fact. As a result, there is an increasing risk of budget failure in defined amounts, which can increase the pressure on the budget system. Third. In 2022, the nominal subsistence minimum per person will increase by 8.2 percent, or 196 dollars, to 2 000,589. But the real cost of living is only going to increase by 2 percent. The House of Accounts has repeatedly insisted on the need to change its approach to the creation of a minimum of living, since the real minimum of living, calculated by the Ministry of Health, is 1.7 times higher than the budget. Four. The Court of Auditors has found additional reserves for four sources of income that are not included in the bill, totalling almost 33 billion dollars. I hope that they will be taken into account in the final edition. Fifth. When working on the draft budget, we suggest that we pay attention to the formation of individual expenditure. In particular, the following year, $3.2 billion more is available for benefits and housing subsidies than this year. But if the price of gas increases and the number of subsidies increases, there may be an additional need for these costs. By 5.3 billion dollars, we're increasing the cost of the Pension Fund. Dear colleagues, this year we have borrowed 10 billion from the One State Treasury Account for the Pension Fund. I will point out that as of October 1, this year, the Pension Fund owes more than 75 billion dollars to treasury. The growth of the Pension Fund’s loans, the non-refundability of them at the end of the year, which is observed two years in a row, is a significant fiscal risk to fiscal stability. Six. According to a low budget programme, 15.5 billion dollars have not been allocated subsidies among local budgets. This increases the risk of time-consuming and inefficient use of taxpayers’ costs. Seven. As in previous years, the government proposes to stop the separate rules of the Budget Code. This is about government budget deficits and government guarantees. This is a violation of the Code of Budgets and the Rules of the Supreme Council. Eight. 571 billion dollars borrowed next year will go completely towards the repayment and servicing of government debt -- almost a third of all budget revenues. However, there is a risk that scheduled loans will not be available in full and on time. Nine. The total debt by the end of 2022 is expected to increase to 3.1 trillion dollars. In a year the debt will increase by 178 billion dollars, or 4.3 thousand dollars, per citizen. Dear colleagues, in fact, every Ukrainian at the end of the 22nd year will have 75,000 debts, and each of us will pay 14,000 dollars for its service and repayment next year. But I hope that, despite all the challenges we face next year, the government will continue its policy of reducing government deficits and debt. By the way, October 22nd is 25 years old. From the very beginning, our experts are conducting an expert study of the budget project. During this time, we have found over 160 billion reserves of income increase. Dear National Deputies, distinguished members of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Accounting Chamber is ready for further cooperation to work on a balanced and realistic budget for the 22nd year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u102	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speeches by the MPs and groups. There's no question. Please, Opposition Platform for Life, Mikola Leonidovich Skorik. To the rostrum? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u103	Good afternoon, fellow citizens of Ukraine! The first thing I wanted to point out to those who are looking at us is that the Opposition Platform for Life is in no way planning to support the project that's just been presented. I am grateful to the Head of the Accounting Chamber for the adequate evaluation of this budget, on the one hand. On the other hand, if questions were to be asked, I would like to ask Valeri Vasilovich how his specialists had been able to conduct a one-night examination of the entire Supreme Council and give an appropriate conclusion. As far as the budget is concerned. We've given, I mean, the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" has made its proposals on how it should be changed from our point of view. The first is a package of our legislative proposals for the revitalization of economic life in the country, including economic unlocking, unfortunately, so far uncontrollable areas of Donbas, which would generally give rise to additional revenues of more than 145 billion dollars. In addition, we believe that inefficient budget expenditures could be redistributed and that we can get almost 47 billion dollars. These funds should be focused primarily on supporting our citizens in actual terms. You know, we're not on the threshold right now, we're in a state of unfolding energy crisis. This energy crisis will inevitably lead to a massive socio-political crisis. And the problem is not that this crisis is going to hit an active power, but the problem is that this crisis can strike Ukrainian citizens first and Ukrainian citizens. We think that in this situation, when you gave macroeconomic indicators, whenever you reported, with all due respect to the Ministry of Finance, one of the key macroeconomic indicators for Ukraine's budget was always gas price. Today, we don't know this price for gas, and the stories that citizens don't seem to feel the rise in utility tariffs are not true. And first of all, it feels like an industry. I understand that in three minutes you can't evaluate the entire budget. I have a lot of questions about the debt commitments that they are growing, and that's what Mr. Packan just said, by the end of the year, over 3.3 trillion, and they started with 584 billion in 2014. In the past two years alone, debt has increased by almost 500 billion dollars. I have a lot of questions about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u104	Thank you. The "Slut of the People" faction, Kuznietsov Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u105	Please pass the word to Oblivious Forest.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u106	Please, Lesa Mikhailna Oblivna, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u107	Thank you. Honorable colleagues who would like to point out the main thing. We now have a unique draft of the State budget, because for the first time in years of independence, the State budget was formed on the basis of the budget declaration adopted in July. And so we're moving from short-term planning to medium-term, taking into account the basic vectors and the main important directions for the functioning of the state. According to the Budget Declaration, according to a number of bills that have been passed by our Parliament, we see a lot of positive and important trends in the current draft of the State Budget. In particular, I would like to point out that we see a reduction in the government budget deficit, which is very important. We see what's increasing the revenue side, largely due to the detinction of the economy, which has become possible as a result of the legislative initiatives we have adopted. The main priorities in this budget, which are very important, I would like to point out, are these are pretty record medical expenses that are going to be 197 billion. Yes, they do not yet reach 5 percent of GDP, but they are the highest, and the country is responsible for the health of every Ukrainian. It is also important that education costs are at a high level, and defense spending is about 6 percent. I would like to note that there has been a series of important programs that will have a positive effect on our young generation. In particular, we are providing subsidies to local budgets for the purchase of food for secondary education institutions that have not actually been modernized in the last 30 years, with about 1.5 billion dollars. In terms of direct attention to the regions, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than 53 billion dollars plus DFRD, DFRD funds, have been invested in regional development. Today we are looking at the budget in the first reading, and I would like to point out that more than 3,000 300 rights, proposals from national MPs, about 1.5 thousand were taken into account, with very important initiatives, and passed on to the government to study and to consider them. But the budget is clearly balanced, gives absolute confidence in long-term planning, and accordingly we will support it, and we call for a responsible response to the most important financial document.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u108	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u109	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u110	Alexeiovich Honcharenko
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u111	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear government officials! Dear colleagues! You know, it's really hard to talk about this budget right now, really. Because each year there is some hope that, at least for some reason, some conclusions may have been made, something would improve. Sadly, though, the answer is no, no, no. We hear loud and good statements that this budget is an investment in a person, in a country, in the future. Indeed, it is an investment in man, and we even know the name of this man, Vladimir Zelensky. It has these investments in its entirety, some others, and some individuals in its environment. For example, we see again the increase of the Attorney General's Office's spending, the Attorney-General's Office, in fact, not much, by 2 billion dollars, and that's a year in a row. An increase in expenses for the Ukrainian Security Service, for all those who provide this warm bath for Zelensky. Although the heat is becoming more expensive, the warm bath needs to be maintained, and the money is free. We hear it's an investment in the country. I'd like to ask which country, my friends? Maybe in Belarus and the Russian Federation, where are we going to buy electricity? Maybe in Turkey because of Big Construction, when the huge amount of work is done by Turkish companies and not by Ukrainian companies? Which country are we investing in, please tell me? I was here looking for an investment in Ukraine. I found: investments in energy efficiency, friends, 2.5 billion dollars? That's it? One thousand GDP? With the price of gas in the world, there was a thousand dollars. With rising energy prices, we are now dependent on energy from other countries. So you're making fun of us, is that supposed to be the main article of this budget? Where is investment in energy efficiency, where is investment? Where are investments in increasing gas production? Where are they? Where are investments in our own coal industry when we do not have coal in our warehouses before winter? There's nothing completely wrong with that. And that's why they tell us that these are investments in the future. And what's the future of this investment when we see that the government debt is going to reach over 3 trillion trillion dollars? Dear friends, this means, as the House of Accounts has calculated, and each of you can count that every citizen of Ukraine, from a baby to a one-year-old grandmother, will owe 75,000 dollars at the end of the coming year. Seventy-five thousand dollars! And that means investing in the future? The "European Solidarity" faction is the only faction of the Supreme Council that has never voted for any budget from an active authority. And this time, even though we've made a lot of allowances, since they're unaccounted for, and this budget is against the future, against the human being, we're not going to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u112	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kovalov Aleksandro Ivanovich, Deputy Group "Trust". Please, Paul Andriovich Bakunec.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u113	Dear Mr. Head, Minister, dear MPs! Of course, the adoption of the budget next year is not just a plan for our nation's development, it's also a guide for our communities. Right now, almost 1,000 500 new communities are watching you in the hall and watching this development plan happen next year. People are waiting for specifics, yet programs will be financed first to understand how to put their projects together for funding. This is first of all the DFRD, this is the Energy Efficiency Fund for thewarming of our FSB's buildings, which needs to be added. These are, of course, other things: roads, gardens, schools. And of course, communities are now looking at what we're going to set up, and they're going to put it in their development budgets, which we're going to save and we're not going to have to destroy by any budget code. And of course, despite a number of these possibilities for communities, there are negatives that need to be corrected immediately. That's why we, the national MPs, especially the majorists, are tasking you, the government, the second-reading government to correct the defence situation, that is to predict an increase in funding for defence. Not to be the same as this year: in the third decade, there were no more food funds, even for the wages of our defenders. About education. We call for an increase in spending by 6 billion on education subsidies from the state budget to local budgets. Because article 53 of the Constitution states that it is the State that must provide secondary education free of charge, and this should not lie down for funding from local budgets. It's about medicine. Medical care is needed to increase the emergency, such as the purchase of carriages, the purchase of aerodynamic evacuations, and training centers. It's all very and very important, and the cost of it needs to be increased. Not to mention the communities, because without a subsidy to cover energy costs, our communities' costs in a direct sense will be burned during the warming period. So we need to take care of the communities, we need to increase the VAT, we need to increase the amount of money from rent to 10 percent of local budgets. And most importantly, this is how we take a step to meet our people, because people in decentralization expect them to have development: a new road, a new track, a new school, a new garden. And all of this, together with you, we're tasking you to increase the costs of our government's local self-government. And I think by the second reading, this document is going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u114	The word is given to National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich. Taras Ivanovich Batenko will be there. Please. The Party for the Future MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u115	Good day, dear colleagues, a respected government. First of all, what we want to say, on behalf of our Group of Majority Members of the Party for the Future, in the context of the Budget Code, which we have just removed, is that we have deferred consideration, that our group strongly condemns such approaches and will not vote for the destruction of the idea of decentralization and the idea of local self-government. So we don't want to say again that we should stress the effective increase in the minimum wage in the country, the minimum wage and the minimum pension. This is, I think, an alpha and an omega for any government, regardless of the colors that are represented here in the session room, to remember that people should not survive in uneasy economic conditions. We urge the government to work out a substantial draft of the State Budget for second reading, fundamentally, otherwise we will not vote for it. In fact, we're seeing a significant underfunding of most of the expenditure articles, and the key ones that we're going to focus on right now. This is the National Health Service Guarantee Program. We see the underfunding of over 20 billion dollars. Contrary to the legislation, medical needs are generally underfunded by over 70 billion dollars. This is when a country burns from COVID, when we lack doctors, reanimatologists, and others, and when this trend is only getting more complicated. According to media references, the need and what we see on the budget committee is as much the need for defence as we see in the draft budget. Although we have claims to the Ministry of Defense management, we are deeply saddened by the debt owed to military officials who have just been repaid. We are also talking about an increase in the amount of additional subsidies to local self-government for education and health care institutions to their real needs, not less than 20 billion dollars, but less than the government's 3 billion dollars, which is twice the amount allocated for the current year 2021. We call for all major grants to be made directly between local self-government budgets and on a formal basis in the state budget itself. Not as the government suggests: the distribution of grants between district budgets alone, and in fact it creates an element of the subjectivity of manual regulation in the distribution of grants by government. We're talking about education subsidies and underfunding for a few tens of billions of dollars. We also require more subsidies to citizens for housing services. Because we're entering a difficult period of the heating season, and we don't know how we're going to go through this period of 2021-2022. So, my friends, we're willing to look positively at this draft budget with a substantial second reading of it, and hopefully the government will do it along with the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u116	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Not one minute 12. Dear colleagues, there's a 30-minute recess. We'll continue the discussion after the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, we're adjourned, we're continuing our day-to-day discussions. And I invite you to the words of Jaroslav Romanovich Jurčin, the faction of the political party "Golos". Galina Vasilchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u118	Dear people's deputies, dear Ukrainians! Galina Vasilchenko, Justice Union, 118 constituency, Lviv. One of the priorities of our union is the financial capacity of the communities. That's what we've been making the most of. And we very much hope that by the second reading now the government, and especially the Ministry of Finance, will have included at least some of these proposals. Because after decentralization reform has been completed, the authorities must be accountable to the communities and provide adequate financial resources to enable communities to exercise their powers effectively. Yes, in particular, we insist that in 2022 the government provide for a separate subsidy to pay for the work of kindergarten teachers. Now it's on the community. In addition, we urge that funds be made available for the development of the CNAP network. We also propose to the government to provide funding, including compensation for passenger transport benefits, which are also currently being placed on the community, and it is very difficult for them to provide such financing. And of course, we can't help but mention our 5066 bill, to add 5 percent of the PDF to the community. Let me remind you that now this 60 percent of the PDF goes into the community, we suggest that at least 65 percent go into the community so that they can properly exercise their powers. Unfortunately, in this budget, we haven't seen a single line of support for small and medium-sized businesses. We saw a huge hole in 100 billion in the medical field. We've seen underfunded education. And we've seen huge problems with energy efficiency. And given the tariffs that our communities and our citizens in general are now going to have to pay, the energy efficiency situation is really difficult. Over the past year, the government has failed, unfortunately, to do nothing in terms of energy efficiency so that the payments of our Ukrainians are at least a little smaller. The Committee on Budgets partly took into account our suggestions. And now, as I said, the last word behind the government, behind the Cabinet of Ministers. We very much hope that they will be accountable to the communities and will take into account our proposals and our communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u119	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Michael Jacobovich Wolinz, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland". Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, if I'm not mistaken, this seems to be the third budget of the country under the leadership of the new government, the "Serve of the People" Party. The third budget is, in fact, a budget that accurately declares what kind of policy the government "servicing the people" is making. The budget is a concentrated state development strategy. And we can see here whether anything actually changed in Ukraine on the third budget. This is, consider it, 3 years of your power, this is most of your power. So I want to say. First. Whether you remember it or not, we had such a nice, cool slogan: "The End of the Age of Poverty." That's a good slogan. That's great. I want you to read your budget and just draw conclusions. Do you know that there is a minimum standard of living in the country? The minimum standard of living is the physiological limit below which if you pay a person, well, it doesn't survive, it has to die. So I want to inform you that in this budget -- in the extreme poverty budget -- 50 percent of the living minimum is set for virtually all categories: for working people, for non-working people (see pensioners). And even for children -- for those who need social assistance, 50 percent of the living minimum. That's the minimum that's on the budget. Do you understand what you're doing? We had different presidents, prime ministers, governments, but no one went to such trouble. The other one. I'm just informing you that no index has been paid at all, either on pension or on salary. Without the inflation index this year as a result of energy prices, it's going to be a disaster, and you're making a disaster budget. An energetic colossal problem. There's no word in the budget. Subsidies. We've calculated housing services at your same price for gas: 70 billion is needed. You're making 31 billion. I remember very well how you told us that our pensions would be cloudy. Today, 7 million pensioners will receive a lower standard of living. It's a zero. I want to remind you of the end of the era of corruption. Where in the budget's income from customs is $4 billion a year? They're gone, smuggling continues. Where is the shadow economy that comes out of the shadows? It's going on. This is the budget for the complete incapacity of this power, this is the budget for the collapse of normal governance of the country, and it can't be accepted in any way. It's just the end of state policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u121	Thank you. Danilo the Gethmans is a replica. I understand there was a faction mentioned. Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, what is cynicism? Cynicism is when politicians 20 years old, 20 years in power now accuse the budget of 2022 of the low subsistence minimum, which was set for them in 2015-2016, when they decided that people would not be able to live at this minimum of living. And what we're doing now is correcting it by effort, by mobilization, by detinction, by making decisions that we're making: and for the medical community (please pay attention to an unprecedentedly high medical budget), by indexing pensions. We don't have to lie, we index pensions, we index pensions in March, and we index pensions for military pensioners, we've already increased pensions by 25 percent. But what you have brought the country to in 28 years is not treated year after year or treated in two.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u123	Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I see you. I'm listening. Please proceed with the procedure. Please, what's your question? Turn your hair on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u124	Mr. Chairman, in accordance with article 29, paragraph 1, I make you aware of the violation of the Rules. Neither Mr. Getmanzev nor the faction he represents were mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u125	The faction was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u126	We're talking about three years of authority in the "Serial of the People" series, that's what we're talking about. There was no mention of the faction, no mention of Mr. Gethmans. Therefore, in violation of the Rules, you have now given the floor to a repulsion that, unfortunately, was not entitled to. As for Mr. Getmantsev's speech, who lies to the Ukrainians in the first place, who manipulates facts that have nothing to do with reality. And I want to remind you, Mr. Getmants, which was set up in 2009, in 2008, it was a little bit different in terms of the US dollar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u127	Yeah, let's make this happen. As soon as someone thinks of it in a negative way, whether it's a faction or a deputy, I say again, I'm going to give the right to a replica, and that's the right thing to do. The other one. So I can't give Daniel Alexanderovich any more, because the replica doesn't work. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Let's stick to some balance, parity, respect for each other. There are so many synonymous words that can be used to prevent the right to a replica. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the performances from the National Deputies in nine minutes, three minutes for the performance. National Deputy Nemira Grigori Mihajlovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u129	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u130	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'm very pleased to continue my evaluation of this current budget. And what I'm saying is, you know, there used to be an anecdote that in the first year, you can refer to the active power of the predecessors, to the second year, to explain why they didn't get anything, no result, and in the third year, you have to write statements and go away if you failed. And so stop referring to your predecessors, you have absolute power, you have absolutely the ability to change everything in the country, but absolutely free to do anything. Therefore, there is no point in referring to the predecessors. I also want to continue on this budget with a few words. I want to say that we do not have the necessary money to protect our health today, even through this shameful reform. What do you think the health deficit in this budget is? Well, I'm sure no one knows this number, but I'll just remind you: today's health deficit is 221 billion. What right do you have at $221 billion of the health budget deficit to place something on your estate for Big Construction? Do you not have a high priority for human health in this budget? I want to say that there have never been such budgets in Ukraine under any authority. What you do by destroying health by destroying people’s lives and health is that you have nothing to do with understanding what the State needs today. Furthermore, perhaps we do not remember, or remember, how much, 4,000 euros, or dollars did you promise when you went to power, to pay your education? What do you have today? You have not even implemented an existing law today that stipulates that education, especially in schools, cannot pay less than four minimum levels of living. You put zero in this budget, you continue closing schools, you continue to tighten the network. Is that politics? It can't be politics, and there can't be such a budget in the country. In addition, it is an infinite debt budget, and one in three bracelets has to be paid at the expense of debt. This is the country's destruction budget. Anyone who votes for it will be involved in the destruction of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u131	I'd like to invite Ukrainian National Deputy Friz Irina Vasilovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u132	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u133	Mikhailo Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u134	Thank you, Michael Bondar, European Solidarity. Today, all those who spoke about medicine or education or agrarians were talking about energy in one way or another, because in fact every sector mentioned was related to it. I'm going to talk about one of the areas of energy, which is the coal sector that is actually killed for the existence of this green power over the last two years. You can see what the crisis is in Europe right now, what energy prices are. And what has not been included in the coal industry these past years, we have hoped that when authorities see the problem, they will at least pay attention to the amendments that I have made as a national deputy, the head of the committee that the committee has submitted, and take into account those coal proposals: modernization, health care, modernization, and, including, the payment of wages. Sadly, this was not included. It was calculated by this authority that when it reached the heating period and did not invest in the industry, it would be possible to buy imports, first of all in the Russian Federation, to bring it into the state-controlled Centre, which controls the Cologne, and thus to go through the heating period. But, you see, as they say, life is making adjustments. Now it's actually not realistic to buy coal. And we're almost dead in the coal sector. If even today she spends money on modernization, on opening new lavas, it's going to be a process, at least six months, at most a year. It's a tender, it's a purchase, it's a development of new lavas, and it's only until then that coal production starts, and it's delivered to TEC and TEC, where they can produce electricity from this coal. So, the honorable green authorities, listen to the suggestions that the committee made, I personally, invest in the coal sector, save the energy security of our nation and support the miners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u135	The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Venislav, Fedor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u136	Please pass the word to Vladimir Gevk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u137	Vladimir Gevko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u138	Vladimir Gevko, Ternopil district Mr. Head, Mr. Secretary, fellow officers of honor! First of all, I would like to urge everyone to support this draft budget in the first reading. Yes, it's a really complex budget that's formed under the conditions that we're living in today. I want to remind everyone today that we are going to have a war, that we are now going to fight a pandemic that is costing us more than we've ever anticipated in previous budgets. Indeed, there are many proposals, many comments, and that is normal. I don’t remember any draft budget that was considered by this session hall, which was approved by all unanimously, to which no comments were made. And it is very important that this budget takes into account a number of important issues, such as the implementation of the state-wide drinking water programme. We all know the state of water in our cities. We must take immediate steps to correct this situation. Planned measures to combat COVID during the educational process in general and secondary education institutions. Many socio-economic, infrastructure projects have been and are being implemented. Additional support for local budgets and much more is included. So once again, I urge everyone to support this draft budget in the first reading. I'm convinced that by the second reading, we will be working together on this draft budget. I think it's pretty balanced right now, but together, we're going to make it even better, even more human-oriented, even more focused on overcoming the challenges we face today, and even more focused on the development of our nation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor. We have, in principle, one more minute. Gevko did, he won't. Then the word is given to the national deputy Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich -- and this is where we conclude. And I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the hall, because after that we're going to vote on the budget as a basis. Please, Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, each of us, when preparing the budget for the vote in the first reading, had a chance to make our proposals and try to improve it a little bit. Someone took advantage of that right, someone didn't. I made proposals for nine budget programs: the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction. From what I've seen, there's no clear estimate in the table. For four programmes, the Budget Committee wrote: "Partly executed". What does it mean in part? I asked to find the funds for repairing the hostels of the National University of Cherkas and the National University of Chernivitz. They wrote "partially." I asked if I could find funds for the repairs of airplanes in Smilly, Kamyanz, throughout the Cherkas region. It's "partially" again. I asked for funds to clean the rivers: Tismin, Dnipro, Silver. It's "partially" again. Finally, water supplies in rural areas. What's partial? It's like that, and it's not like that. I'm talking to the government, unfortunately, so far we don't know these numbers. Because "partially" is to give the government a mandate to find these funds. If you find these funds, I will vote in favour of this State Budget, which is not difficult for our entire state. But if you leave universities, heads up, rivers unsupervised, and it ends up with simple propaganda, it'll be a budget that won't be viable. Because we come to people and have to do things that you didn't do. You talked about hospitals, and they're essentially not in this budget enough. And I agree with what the previous speakers have said. You were talking about education, but unfortunately, so far, what's in the budget is not enough. You talked about the army, about the defense, but there's still work and work. And a lot of social issues in our lives need the attention of the government. The budget procedure is that the parliamentary initiatives ended on September 30, and the next, the second call, is on the government's side. So, Mr. Finance Minister, unfortunately, there's no Prime Minister here, I hope he's not sick, work out the budget so that, apart from the word "balanced," he'll be able to live on it all of 2022.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion on the first reading of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2022 has been completed. Now we're going to make a decision, and I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats, because it's very important to vote now. Because otherwise we have to go for all 3,000 amendments. So I'm asking you to focus. Dear colleagues, in accordance with Rule 157 of the Supreme Council Rules, I am voting on the budget committee's draft Resolution (Registration No. 6000-P) on conclusions and proposals for the draft State Budget Act of 2022 for adoption as a basis. Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:55:48]] For 264 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, will there be national deputies who will put to the vote any amendments? They will be. I have a vision of "European Solidarity," yes, "The Voice" will be, "The Fatherland" will be, a few deputies from "The Servant of the People" will be, "The Opposition Platform for Life." How will we go? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, according to the table, it's 3,000 amendments. Maybe we'll just define the amendments that we have to make? Shall we go more fracking, colleagues? More fracking? Julia Volodymyrna, how do you propose? It's more fracking, isn't it? Shall we start with who? [[B in m in s a l in]] One second. Dear colleagues, from the procedure: Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, then Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović, then "European Solidarity". And then we'll make a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I just want to let all the members of the Supreme Council know that almost 99.9 of your amendments that your parties have been working on, your factions, your teams, they have been rejected. And even the tables that the working groups have prepared are also rejected. I can tell you that this is unknown at all where this budget came from. And so our team thinks, our faction thinks that such a document as a fundamental budget is the country's strategy of life for the next year, and essentially the strategy of life of Ukraine, it can't be considered under reduced procedures. We have to go through the table on who wants to -- let them tell us who doesn't want to -- don't call them. I don't think there's going to be 3,000 lines, because in fact, I think most factions here will give up their rights. But we would like to announce our amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u143	I'd like to let you know. The point is that since we have just voted as the basis, only the MP who is the author of this amendment can put it. And that's why we follow that logic. She gave us the list of amendments to the EC, and I hope that the same list of amendments will be passed on to other factions. Let's go after those amendments. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u144	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, we made 283 adjustments from the faction. Obviously we're not going to insist on everyone physically, but there are a few fundamentals, for example, for minimum fixed incomes, where there's an inappropriateness, such as an increase in income by 3 percent of the minimum wage and inflation, etc. So we'd like to put them to the vote. But the suggestion is, why should we go in order, as amended? Because they are certain thematic. For example, what's the point: colleagues sound at the minimum wage, and we go to the stock market, then we go back to the minimum wage, then we go to the minimum pension, then we go to the roads, then we go back to the pensions? So there's a systematic approach to considering one or the other proposals. So the proposal is to go straight to the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, who else wants out of the procedure? None. Alexander Sergiyovich, look, because you yourself said that you'd put a few of your fundamental amendments on the whole array, so I think it's more logical to isolate a few of them so that you can concentrate your opinion on the basis of these amendments. My colleagues, too, they're based on a list of amendments, and they handed it to me. So if that's possible, we're ready to consider it. Then let's start with European Solidarity, because they already have a list of amendments, and let's move on. Yeah? Who's going to be the first? Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please start with the amendment number you are talking about. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, please look at Amendment 1325. It's part of the government's mandate. Thank you for the fact that there is a real possibility for us to provide for a state-of-the-art science and technology programme for the development of the aviation industry of 2 billion dollars a year, provided for by the law we have recently adopted. I wanted to pay attention, my fellow Members, to the direct rules of the law that we've adopted before, that provide for some kind of funding for programs, but somehow in the government budget they're not foreseen. Now we're going to analyze all of these norms because I've been paying attention to this because it was quite recent, and here in the room we promised to take into account the financing of this program so that we could have the Europlanes disappear, and we were able to secure the production of our own planes. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to other sources of funding for this program. Respectable.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u147	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Dear colleagues, the first amendment made by Nina Petrovna is the 1325th. Am I right? This amendment is partially taken into account, but the author insists on taking full account, right? So, dear colleagues, please. Please. Yuri Juryovich, did you find amendment 1325? Explain what "in part" is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u148	In part, that means it's in the government's hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u149	So this amendment went to the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u150	It's counted, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u151	Then I don't. What's your next one? Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u152	The next 1755 amendment, which was rejected. Dear reporter, I have foreseen the sources of funding for two of my amendments -- 4 billion 449 million. Having studied all the expenses you plan for law enforcement agencies, I've just come up with an understanding of how much work costs can increase compared to all budgetary institutions and organizations, how much development costs can increase, and corrected them. Will adjustments be taken into account that reduce the planned expenditure on the structures indicated in my amendment? And why is the rejected amendment, which provides for the cost of the equipment of the checkpoints and the checkpoints? This is precisely what is essential in order for customs to work effectively, not in words, but in action. We would really get those extra VAT revenue from importing the goods you predicted in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u153	Thank you. Nina Petrovna, I'm sorry, what's the amendment number? Remind me again, because I haven't been able to write it down here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u154	1755.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u155	1755. One second. 1755. Now. 1755. Yeah, I found her. Yeah, yeah, it's rejected. Dear colleagues, the amendment by the 1755 Committee has been rejected. But the author insists on taking her into account. So please identify and vote. [[13:04:22]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Please, Vjatrović, Volodymyr Vjatrović. We agreed that instead of your 10 rights, 3 minutes of the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I do have 10 suggestions, and they all relate to the area of culture. Here's one for you. So this project is a budget for the deliberate destruction of Ukrainian culture. And the thing is, there's no money. Because the budget for 2022 is increasing by more than 100 billion today, by almost 8 percent. But at the same time, the only area where costs go down is the area of culture. Of the already scarce 0.55 percent of this year’s expenditure, the authorities are lowering the expenditure on culture by a deplorable 0.46 percent, less than 7 billion dollars per year from the one-and-a-half trillionth budget. I made 10 proposals to the budget, which meant only the most necessary things in the area of cultural protection. And by the way, all those proposals were supported by all the members of the humanitarian committee from all the factions, hoping that the budget committee would stop this policy of cultural destruction. Of these proposals, the budget committee has taken into account the state of zero to date, zero to zero! I insist on taking full account of such proposals in part of the increase in expenditure. So I'm counting, these are the proposals. 698. Support to the Ukrainian Institute of Foreign Affairs. 932. Commission of State Language Standards. 1829. Construction of state - owned objects in the field of culture 1834. The preservation of the historical and cultural and architectural heritage in the reserves. 1845. Acquisition of books for libraries and other programs of the Ukrainian Book Institute. This budget provides zero dollars to buy books. 1852. The increase in public broadcasting costs is equal to the statutory rate, not the reduction of these costs again, because someone doesn't like the criticism of power on social television. 1896 and 1901 are expenditures on national memory policies, especially at the Memorial of the Celestial 100th, the Maidan Museum, the archives of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory. 3028. Increase to this year’s subsidy for repairs of cultural monuments in municipal property. The adoption of the budget without these changes is an outright crime against Ukrainian culture. And anyone who pushes the green button for this budget will be an accomplice to this crime. Just put nine proposals to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u157	Let's start with the first one. 698. Amendment of the People's Deputy of Vitarović. The proposal is partially taken into account, but the author insists on taking full account of his offer. It's all right, isn't it? Dear colleagues. The committee insists that it remain there. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:35]] For-92 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 932, right? Now, one second, I'm going to take a look at her decision. 932nd People's Deputy, Vátarović. She's been rejected by the committee. The author insists on taking her into account. Dear colleagues, please identify yourself and vote. [[13:08:09]] For-86 The decision is not taken. The next amendment you're talking about is 1829. Now, one second. This amendment was rejected by the committee. The author suggests that we consider it. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer from the author. Please identify and vote. [[13:08:49]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 1845. These are also the authorships of the national deputy, Váterović, but they are included in part. 1834? Did we just vote it out like that? Oh, I'm sorry, no, no. 34th, yeah, yeah. 1834, it's rejected. The author insists on complete, more faithful consideration. I'm betting on the author's proposal, but the committee remains at its discretion. So please identify and vote. [[13:09:40]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 1845, of the People’s Deputy Vátarović. The committee considered it in part, but the author insists on taking full account of the amendment. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[13:10:14]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 1852, is also the authorship of the respectable Volodymyr Vátrović. It's rejected by the committee, but you insist that it be counted. I'll bet you an offer, but the committee's proposal is rejected. Please identify and vote. [[13:10:47]] For-86 The decision is not taken. The edit remains rejected. The next amendment, amended in 1896, was also the authorship of the People’s Deputy, Vítarović. She's been rejected by the committee. The author insists on counting. So please identify and vote. [[13:11:20]] For-84 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 1901, is also the authorship of the People’s Deputy, Vítarović. She's been rejected by the committee. The author insists on taking her into account. So please identify and vote. [[13:11:51]] For-86 The decision is not taken. And the extreme readjustment you were talking about in 3028. Well, we made a deal. Let's keep the deal. Thank you. 3028. Now I'm going to find her, because that's what I'm after. How about a comment? I'll give it to you, okay, yeah. Yuri Juryovich, did you find an amendment in 3028? It's rejected. 3028, it refers to the increase in the expenditure of the general fund under the budget programme "County from the State Budget Fund to local budgets for the implementation of reconstruction and conservation projects of cultural heritage monuments held in municipal property", 3028. Have you found Yuri Yuriovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u158	Yes. The committee's position is to reject this amendment, because it's not balanced, we don't have a financial and economic justification for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u159	Thank you. I bet on the vote of Amendment 3028. The committee proposes to reject it. At the same time, the author insists on counting. So please identify and vote. [[13:13:50]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Then I have the National Deputy Jonah, three amendments. Please call the numbers right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u160	I'm sorry, I have four amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u161	Four, call the numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u162	1223th, 1281th, 1831th and 1996th. But I want to protect each and every one of them, not for four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u163	Okay, well, can I get a second number, number two? I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u164	1223, 1281, 1831, 1996.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u165	Let's start with 1223, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u166	If you don't mind, it's time from the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u167	Take your time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u168	Thank you very much. "European solidarity" still requires that we take our amendment fully into account, because it is very important for us to have an additional budget of 16.6 billion dollars specifically for the payment of housing and utility benefits for our citizens, especially for the payment of benefits and housing subsidies to citizens for housing and utilities, for the purchase of solid and liquid domestic fuel and spent gas in cash. For us, it is vital that we do not. prohibit the authorities from requiring additional documents, aids, declarations and simplifying the access of Ukrainians to receive subsidies and removing completely absurd restrictions. That's why I have a request. This is a partial amendment, to explain to the committee's head what is partially considered, what is considered for our citizens from your point of view? For us, it is important that our readjustment be fully taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u169	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee, Yuri Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u170	Dear colleague, part of it means that we haven't found a resource today to balance your bill, so we've assigned the Cabinet of Ministers to find this opportunity. This is the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u171	Thank you. I've got the position. Dear colleagues, then I'm putting, amendment 1223, it's taken into account by the committee in part, but the author insists on taking full account. I'm asking the author to take full account, so please identify and vote, please. [[13:16:48]] For-96 The decision is not taken. That's what's left of the committee. Next, 1281.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u172	Thank you very much. 1281. A very strange position for the head of the committee, because, you know, for your balance, the funds are for the penal authorities, the law enforcement agencies, the D.B.I., the Attorney General's Office, the B.S.A., to prosecute the opposition, but unfortunately they're not for Ukrainian citizens for subsidies. But 1281 is also partially counted, but we demand, "European solidarity," to be taken fully into account. This includes an additional 15 billion dollars from the Pension Fund for pension indexation from 1 January 2022 to 17 percent, based on inflation and forecasting for 2022. That's why we demand, "European solidarity," to take our order fully into account. And I would like to comment on the committee's head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u173	Yuri Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u174	Now there's no resource to balance this right now, so the Cabinet of Ministers has been tasked with finding that possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, 1281, it's part of the committee, but the author insists on taking full account, so I'm putting the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[13:18:28]] For-95 The offer is not supported. The amendment remains partially taken into account in the Committee's drafting. The next amendment is 1831.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u176	Thank you very much. "European Solidarity" requires an additional 200 million dollars for preserving the historical and cultural and architectural heritage of national and state reserves. Because the money for the "great theft" is somehow being found by the authorities, and the culture is ultimately being financed by something. As you know, the issue of culture now, in times of Russian aggression, is also a matter of national security. Therefore, we demand that our remedy be taken fully into account. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u177	Not for confirmation, but for consideration, since this amendment is not included, it is rejected. Dear colleagues, I'm putting the author's proposal for amendment to 1831 into account. At the same time, the committee rejected her. So please identify and vote. [[13:19:42]] For-90 The decision is not taken. And the extreme right of the national deputy of Jonah, 1996. It's all right. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u178	Our amendment requires that the Ukrainian Security Service reduce by more than 1 billion dollars their funding because we have, sorry, a police state being built. I'd like to remind the Greens authorities that even the PNB has been recommended for defense to allocate 319 billion, and you've only predicted about 280. So, please, you'd better count these costs in the Armed Forces, because we need to buy missiles, transport and other essentials for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, pay our military to get them motivated. But if it is possible for the committee head to be more competent to explain his position, why the HFSF, which they have such priorities, increases their budget by more than 1 billion dollars. Let's keep this budget up to 2020. Why are they getting bigger? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u179	Committee position, brief. Yuri Yuriovich, 1996
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u180	There is no way in the committee to reduce any expenditure related to the country's resilience, which is the result of a decision by the FMCT.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the 1996 amendment. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:22:07]] For-94 The decision is not taken. The next author is the national MP, Pavlovenko, and also three amendments. Please call the numbers immediately so that we can search quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u182	Yes, dear colleagues, there are two amendments: 358 and 387.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u183	Please, 358th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, we hear a lot about what is unbalanced, no balance found and nothing like that. So let's find this balance. Because today he reported to the head of the Accounts Chamber and noted that at least 32.7 billion dollars were not included in the income section. And so about 70 billion dollars is actually not a loan, but actually a gift from the IMF, which is also not calculated, and it's going to go back to stealing. To avoid that, it's suggested to increase the revenue from excise taxes on imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of tobacco, fluids for electronic cigarettes and other similar goods so that we don't hear about the lack of money and suddenly you have a problem with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, the amendment 358 is partially taken into account, but the author insists on taking full account. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the author's proposal, so please identify and vote. [[13:24:22]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. Next 387. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, this is about increasing the revenue of the state budget on the basis of non-tax revenue. That's what the President's Office and the Cabinet always likes to use, boasting that they suddenly have a redefinition. So, so that this reconstruction doesn't go to different projects of stealing, but it goes to providing the army, helping doctors and paying teachers, asking them to include 49 billion dollars in the budget. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u187	Thank you. Amendment 387 is rejected by the committee, but the author insists on taking this amendment into account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[13:25:35]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Next National Deputy Bondar. Please, Mikhaylo Leontijovich. What are the adjustments, tell me now? Do you have two or three, I think, too?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u188	Yes, please: 1107, 1113 and 1118.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u189	Please, 1107.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u190	Give it to me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u191	Take your time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u192	Thank you. As we continue the coal sector and provide it financially for the 22nd year budget, I'm sure I'll start with mining. In view of the failure to invest in the field, it is not modernized every day more and more times just the unfortunate ones that happen in the mines. So investing in mining is a very big need. So everyone who hurts for miners, for the coal industry, please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u193	I'm betting on the vote of 1107 National Deputy Bondar. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:03]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1113. Please, Mikhaylo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u194	What we see is that no one wants to save miners, at least in their businesses. Let's see if you want to save them by giving them money for restructuring. It is proposed that the amendment increase expenditure by 7.4 billion, including consumption, is 4.4 billion dollars and development is 2.9 billion dollars. Dear colleagues, this is our coal sector, we'll be energy-dependent. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u195	I'm betting on the vote for amendment 1113 of the Bondar People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:28:12]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1118. Bondar, please, Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u196	We're getting votes with every correction. There's a DP where the mines don't fit into these DPs. For example, there's a hope mine in Lviv. I made this amendment, when I spoke to the deputy, he said that the mines would be eliminated, including debt to mines like the Hope Mine, for example. So I ask my colleagues to vote that there be money in the budget to pay off the debt on the wages of those mines that are not part of the state enterprise, the union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u197	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote for amendment 1118 of the Bondar People's Deputy. The committee suggests rejecting this amendment, so please identify and vote. [[13:29:27]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Thank you, Mikhail Leontijovich. And then I have three amendments from Ivana Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze. Please, Joanna Orestovna, please call the amendment immediately so that we can find them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u198	Six amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u199	Six?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u200	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u201	Let's get some numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u202	Numbers: 48, 744, 881, 1816, 1840 and 1972.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u203	48th. Please take your time. Ivanna Orestovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u204	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we see that you are proposing to give the Cabinet of Ministers an opportunity to take on guarantees, state guarantees to give up to 50 billion dollars. We believe that this amount can be substantially changed and reduced, just to find ways to guarantee other, exceptional needs of the state, and this can be done on the basis of your offer to finance the enforcement of debt obligations under the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine. We suggest we cancel this because for your "great theft," you're still redistributing funds from various other articles of the state budget, and here you're also proposing and financing this three-way "trafficking", the three-way construction of the so-called road through debt liabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u205	I'm betting on a vote of 48 amendments to the National Deputy Klimpush-Cincadze. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:31:20]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 744. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u206	744 revisions partially counted. And here's where I want to turn. I want to insist on taking full account of it, because it's about the extra funds in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And I think the whole faction of "European Solidarity" thinks that the task for the country is to provide not only the Armed Forces of Ukraine, but also, in fact, the minimum wage, which would be 125 percent of the average wage in the industry. We insist on taking this amendment fully into account, so that the disgrace you have committed this year, the debt owed to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and also the lie that this debt, he said, does not happen again the following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u207	744 amendments are included in part by the committee, but the author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's proposal, and I'm asking you to identify and vote. [[13:32:41.]] For-92 The decision is not taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. The next amendment is 881. Ivanna Orestovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u208	Colleagues, we insist that the State that claims the future should invest in research programmes should finance research activities. And a nation that only boasts of dijitalization but does not in any way finance further research in various other fields is, unfortunately, doomed to defeat. We don't want to let that happen, so we're proposing an additional 150 million dollars to support the National Research Fund, grant support for scientific research and scientific (experimental) development. I'd like your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, 881 revisions. She's been rejected by the committee at the same time, and the author insists on taking her into account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:05]] For-98 The decision is not taken, the amendment is rejected. The next amendment, 1816. Ivanna Orestovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u210	My colleagues here, my colleagues from the faction, have said that, unfortunately, funding for culture is completely scarce. Once again, if we don't invest in Ukrainian culture, in developing our ability to design this culture into the world, we're actually going to lose a great war against Russian aggression, against the Russian Federation. So we insist that we make an additional provision for 175 million dollars for public action in the fields of culture and art, protection of cultural heritage. I'm convinced, colleagues, that if you sincerely claim your great restorations, your support for culture, the need to pay the Royalties and copyrights to our Ukrainian musicians, you will actually support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u211	I'm betting on the vote of amendment of 1816 to the People's Chamber of the Klimpus-Cincadze. She's been rejected by the committee. The author insists on taking her into account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:38]] For-97 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1840.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u212	I'm just sad to see that the head of the budget committee can't even comment on the reasons for rejecting these amendments, absolutely meaningful. But as for amendment 1840, colleagues, once again the principle of the matter. From the very beginning, you didn't, in principle, succeed in setting up the funds until you financed the Book Institute. We think that the meager funding that is currently in the budget, in the draft budget, is not enough for this institution to provide for the functions that were put into it when we started doing this reform. So we insist that we make an additional provision for 200 million dollars for the Ukrainian Book Institute. And please explain to the Head of the Budget Committee why you're either refusing or you're only partially taking our amendments into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u213	The 1840 position of the committee, which is partially counted. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u214	The position of the committee is to give an order to the government. This right now is not balanced, so we're tasking the government to solve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, amendment 1840. It is partially counted, but the author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:24]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. And the extreme amendment of Ivana Orestovna in 1972. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u216	My colleagues are actually saying that our amendments are not balanced, but we can see that you are also ignoring our proposals to reduce funding for your so-called independent law enforcement agencies, which are currently being used exclusively as instruments for the political persecution of your political opponents, particularly the State Bureau of Investigation. So we think it would be appropriate right now to cut funding to the State Bureau of Investigation, which does not perform its functions, but only attacks those who disagree with today's authorities. So by 216.9 million dollars, we're offering to cut the cost of the State of Investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u217	I'm betting on the 1972 amendment, it's rejected by the committee, but the authors insist on counting. Please identify and vote. [[13:38:56]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Thank you, Ivana Orestovna. Next, Irina Fries. You have three revisions, too, don't you? Please, Mrs. Irina. Could you call the number, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u218	Thank you. I'll have five rights: 711, 728, 433, 442 and 959.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u219	Shall we start in the order you call it? Let's do 711 then. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the next revision. First. After the creation of the Ministry of Veterans, the legislative initiative concerned the development of a single register of veterans. This register is essential for the professional and quality functioning of the Ministry of Veterans. I call upon you, Mr. Chairman, and the majority in this case, not in part, but in full support of this amendment, so that the State Register of Veterans will be able to function. This depends on protecting and providing assistance and support to our veterans. Please support and vote for this amendment, it is very important to our defenders. Not by word of mouth, but by deed, demonstrate your willingness to protect them in the walls of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, Amendment 711 is considered partly by the committee. At the same time, the author insists on taking this amendment fully into account, so please identify and vote. [[13:40:52]] For-103 The decision is not taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. The next amendment is 728. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Again, I will address all those present in this room. We know that, unfortunately, providing support and assistance, particularly psychological support and assistance, is now financed by a fictional, or final principle. I call upon you, the representatives of the majority and all the deputies in independence from faction, to support an amendment that will allow the issue of psychological rehabilitation to be funded in an appropriate manner. The Department of Veterans has been funded by the final principle for the past two years. The issue of timely psychological assistance will allow us not to see in the news that a veteran has done something or other. This is a separate request from anyone who understands how psychologically traumatic syndrome can impress a person after he has returned home from combat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, I'm voting 728 amendments, it's partially counted. At the same time, the author insists on taking this amendment fully into account, so please identify and vote. [[13:42:30.]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. The next amendment is 433. Please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u224	I thank all those who voted in favour of the previous two amendments. And I hope that before the second reading, these changes will be taken into account, not in part, but in full. Next line is 433. We propose spending on government administration to cut $235.5 million. Given that there was a free pooled counter-indicator fund, and we have today mad numbers on mortality and disease, that is to say, not ready to go to the fourth wave of the pandemic, I ask that we direct this money from the DHS to the medics accordingly by reducing the amount of funding for the State's administration of matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u225	Thank you. 433 amendments, it's rejected by the committee. At the same time, the author insists on taking her into account, so please identify and vote. [[13:43:50]] For-96 For – 296. The decision is not taken. Uh, 96, I'm sorry. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 442. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u226	Thank you very much. 442 readjustment refers to reducing the funding of the Cabinet Secretariat, which has proved its inability to deal with the challenges and threats present in the state and to direct the money back to the medics. I emphasize that in the last 20 days we have more than 5,000 deaths in the state. In an appropriate way, the government that is trying to finance its Secretariat today has by no means provided either medical personnel or Ukrainians. Accordingly, we ask that their funding be reduced and that it be directed directly to medicine and to the protection of Ukrainians from the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u227	I'm betting on a vote of 442 amendments. The committee turned her down. At the same time, the author insists on taking her into account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[13:45:12]] For-88 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment is 959. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u228	Thank you. Unfortunately, the majority are closer to officials and bureaucrats than to doctors. But I do hope that this 959, which is central to our nation's protection of our sovereignty and independence, will win more votes and be able to be included in this draft budget. The amendment refers to the provision of a separate budget programme for health workers to prevent and rehabilitate COVID’s effects of 5 billion dollars. You've got enough money, you've rolled enough billions into the asphalt. I'm asking you to think about the health of the nation, about the medics and the need to overcome the fourth minute of the pandemic without entering or entering the red zone so that no Ukrainian has the opportunity not to leave the country. We had a Goldomor, and now you're taking us to the coronation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u229	959 amendment, the committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:46:41]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Next up is the Blue Woman, Oleg Mikhailovich. I was also told that you had about three or four amendments. Please name it first.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u230	I request four amendments to the vote: 293, 304 (this relates to the income part of the budget) and 2371 and 3191, which relate to the expenditure portion of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u231	Thank you. Please, 293 first. Take your time. Please, Oleg Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u232	I have a request, the 293 applies to revenue from an increase in income tax by 19.2 billion, and these costs can be obtained primarily from the efficient operation of state companies. I think the head of the budget committee should also be interested in listening to how you can get additional funds to the state budget. Because in 2020, as a result of your inefficient organization and work, Ukrenergo suffered 27 billion losses, the State Food Company 29, Ukraine 1.5, Energoat 4.8. Could these costs have been obtained? Of course it is. Because the same Energoat received 4.6 billion profits in 2018, and so did all the other companies. So we need to get rid of corruption, and we need to make good the work of state-owned enterprises, and we can get that money.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u233	293 amendments, partially counted. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. I'm proposing to the author, and I'm asking you to identify and vote. [[13:48:49]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Oleg Mikhailovich, you said, 304th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u234	304th. 304 amendments apply to the possibility of receiving an additional 1.2 billion dollars from the increase in rent. I would like to point out that, as a result of the unprofessional activity of today’s authorities, we have a second year in a row of gas production. If from 2015 to 2018 it grew from 19 billion cubes to 21 billion cubes, from 2018 to the first half of 2021 it reached a historic minimum of 9.75 billion cubes. I think these are actually steps in further energy dependence on the aggressor, the Russian Federation. And if you're going to reduce your rent accordingly, so you're not planning to raise your own production gas, which means you're not planning to build an energy independent country.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u235	304 amendments, taken into account by the Committee in part, but the author insists on full accounting. I'm betting on the author's proposal, and I'm asking you to identify and vote. [[13:50:22]] For-86 The decision is not taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. Next, 2371. Oleg Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u236	This amendment refers to additional education costs of 8.85 billion dollars. And I'd like to address all the majors here, the MPs from all the factions. "European solidarity" is not about populism, and we didn't promise $4000 of pay for our education before the election, but today there's a real opportunity to raise education's wages as a minimum on the inflation index, which is 17 percent on 2021 and projected inflation for 2022. I'm asking the MPs, especially the Marjorie deputies, who will come to the districts that will go to the school to communicate with the education staff, we have to raise the pay for the education staff, we have to allocate the additional costs of the educational subsidy to raise the salary. I'd like to see who doesn't vote in favour of raising pay for education.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u237	Amendment 2371. It's partially accounted for. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. So please identify and vote. [[13:52:03]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. And the ultimate amendment, Oleg Mikhailovich, 3191. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u238	I deeply regret those teachers who have brought up such students who do not want to vote for them to raise their wages. But the next amendment concerns compensation for heat - energy costs. And this is the compensation for the decisions you make as a result of a completely inefficient energy policy. The memorandum, signed in the spring, is paid at the expense of local budgets. Today’s papers, signed by authority, also have no financial basis. This amendment refers to the possibility for local communities to receive different tariffs for reimbursement of the corresponding costs, which will be directed towards the inefficient operation of today’s power in the field of energy. We're going to support the territorial communities, we're going to give the heat to the communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, Amendment 3191. The committee turned her down. The authors suggest that we consider it. I'm betting on the proposal of the authors, and I'm asking you to identify yourself and vote. [[13:53:39]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Thank you, Oleg Mikhailovich. And the extreme representative of European Solidarity, who made the amendments, Alexy Alexiyovich Honcharenko. How many amendments will you make? If possible, name them first. Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u240	Thank you very much. I've got a low right, and I'm going to report on every one of them right now. I want to tell you this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u241	Name the number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u242	Numbers, please, 48th. Listen, there's a lot of them, I'll be counting them for you right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u243	Let's start at 48.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u244	Let's start with 48. So, dear friends, I want to tell you why they will be dedicated.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u245	I'm sorry, we've already voted on 48th, it was represented by Klimpus-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u246	I'm sorry, 49th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u247	Let's go to 49.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u248	Mr. Ruslan, 49.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u249	Please, 49th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u250	I want to give you a brief picture of why my assignments will be made. First. They will, of course, be designed to improve the state budget, because it is very much needed. Second, he will be assigned to the treatment of sclerosis in Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelensky. Because he's promised so much to people this year, but it's not all in the budget, so I had to offer it. And I think the "ministers of the people" are going to support this right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u251	I'm betting on the 49th amendment of the People's Chamber of Commerce. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:19]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Alexiyyovich, call the number right away so I can find it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u252	Next item is 224. And I want to bring up the next topic, which is extremely important. We're told in the draft budget that they're going to increase investment in Ukraine and involve investors. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you what a catastrophic situation we have in the alternative energy market, the green energy market, which, according to the commitment of the state, the law that we have adopted and the adopted, signed by the President, should receive support. Unfortunately, instead of supporting us, we now have tens of billions of debts, we already have lawsuits against the state. We have a completely destroyed state investment climate because it is already being said worldwide that Ukraine is not fulfilling its commitments. So, if you don't consider what I'm doing, it will eventually destroy the investment climate and we'll never have any investors. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u253	I'm betting on a vote of 224. The committee's proposing a rejection. This is the amendment of the People's Deputy of Goncharenko. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:49]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Alexeiyyovich, number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u254	The next amendment is Amendment 115. It's dedicated to the exact same subject. I want to emphasize once again what we have today. The State of Ukraine has declared certain obligations. By the way, I want to mention that we have in the Constitution a European course for our state, that we want to become part of the European Union. Today, the European Union has adopted the so - called Green Deal. So the point is that those countries that produce their products using so-called dirty energy and don't use clean energy, their products won't be able to be represented in the markets of the European Union for a while. And so when we say that Ukraine has to become a member of the European Union, let's move along with Europe on clean energy and its development. And when this was done in 2014-2019, we got a huge surge of investment. And today, it's not that we have an outflow of investments, but I repeat, lawsuits against the state. If I don't do my job, the situation will only get worse. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u255	I'm betting on the 115th amendment of the People's Chamber of Commerce. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:58:18]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Alexeiyyovich, what's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u256	Thank you. Next item is 269. By the way, if anyone has a desire to comment, perhaps in the head of the committee, I would be happy to comment. The next amendment is about alternative energy, and it's important. Again, it raises the subject when we see that, for example, as regards the investment climate, there is a situation where one of the Norwegian companies, and the amount of investment in alternative energy in Ukraine has made up billions of euros, in fact more than 10 billion, which is the most attractive investment, was unfortunately the sector in Ukraine, so we had a situation where one of the Norwegian companies has invested money in Ukraine, after the debt and because of Ukraine's failure to fulfil its obligations, reported it, this company is public and its shares have been categorized on the market, it fell on half a billion euros, its price. And of course, after that, you expect someone to come to us with investments. Friends, if we don't make the right decisions now, no one will come to us. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-20-m0.u257	I bet on the vote of 269 the amendment of the People's Deputy of Potterenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:49]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, 1359. We're just not going to be able to vote on the next amendment, so I'm going to ask the factions and groups to prepare a list of amendments that you're going to insist on. We will continue tomorrow, and today I declare the plenary session closed. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you.
