ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear fellow Members, please prepare for electronic registration. I remind you, once the registration is started, you need to hold the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Are you ready to register? Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[10:01:21]] There are 216 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements to the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups, to make proposals, announcements, statements, and reports. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups. Please, Your Honor. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kaptielov Roman Volodymyrovich, faction of the political faction "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Negulevski Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u3	Please, Igor Negulewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, on November 27, an explosion occurred in the city of Nova Odessa in one of the many floors. Four dead, the last one pulled out from under the falls just the next day. The explosion was so powerful that two approaches were completely damaged. People were invited to live in a local hostel. But you realize that this is just a temporary home. First of all, I'd like to announce a minute of silence for the dead. [[A Minute of Silence]] Secondly, I would like to ask President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine not to stay away from this problem. I know the money's already been distributed, but it's an emergency. Local budgets will not at the moment attract housing. Please help those who have lost their roof in the winter. Separately, I want to ask my colleagues for their support. I've already asked the President to do so. Please support me in this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u5	Thank you. The word is given to the National MP Batenek Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u6	Good day, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Golovo, the Ukrainian community! In the context of the latest developments in the country, we want to say that, against the background of our northern neighbour's destructive design of the security situation that was formed in Europe after World War II, against the background of the gathering of enemies on our Ukrainian border, and we do not yet have the answers to the reasons and intentions of such a cluster, the Ukrainian statesmen's political forces, irrespective of ideology, both the power side and opposition, have to show solidarity, must demonstrate wisdom. We're against the fact that Ukrainian history repeats itself twice: for the first time as a tragedy, for the second time as a farce, in view of the events of December 1918 and 19 years, because the nation will not forgive us. And in that context, I want to say that our MP group, the "For the Future" MP group, stands guard over their major districts, their constituents. We are concerned that, as we admire today's tightening of the political process, we forget a little about people, ordinary citizens, and we see how hard it is to actually go with the heating season now, how hard it is for communities to make direct deals with the last hope provider. And our parliamentary group calls for the immediate allocation of funds for the purchase of gas for the united communities from the state budget of Ukraine and, above all, for the survival of our citizens. So we're calling for the 22nd year State Budget Bill to provide subsidies to local communities to pay for utilities for the period of the heating season. Note that this position has been set out in a memorandum on non-increasing tariffs that have not been mentioned in our nation in recent times. We should be preparing for the next hot season today, realizing that it will be much more difficult to survive than the one we see today. We need to avoid the negatives that we have today, and in the part of the gas industry that breathes into incense today, and in the coming year, we need to make a breakthrough in this issue. Another issue that we're focusing on is the debt to our medical field, to our medics who are now standing and struggling with an epidemic of coronary disease. Four times the debt has increased before their wages and, according to the industry, even more so. For a long time, we cannot contact the National Health Service on these issues and so forth. So I think that the Ukrainian authorities should urgently address this issue of debt to the medical community. And now it's a day-to-day question of the profession of teams, and the time of experiments, and the demagogs, it's going to be expensive for this state. Let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u7	Thank you. Yes, I understand, Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, group "Trust." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". "You don't need Ukraine's other enemies when Ukrainians themselves are enemies who hate each other and don't even be ashamed of that hatred," said the great civil builder, deep Metropolitan Andrey Sheptic, in the last century. And today, when there is a big problem with many spheres in our country, we only deal with political issues. As we approach the end of this year, we need to take care of several basics of our country, especially local self - government. And the base of the country against which the aggressor is fighting is about our army, and we need to increase funding in order to clearly restrain the enemy from all the borders of our state. And when all our brigades are as quality as the legendary 24th Royal Brigade, then we can stand firm and firm against any enemy. We need to support local self-governance and clearly increase the amount of funds in our communities to enable them to build these omrian roads, sidewalks, repair gardens, schools, build new gardens and schools, repair hospitals, and thus increase the comfort of our citizens, living in communities. We need to look at our doctors, who are clearly today our best advocates in the fight against this war, the virus. We need to continue to help our teachers. Teachers who fulfill their responsibilities to raise our young have still been deprived of their responsibilities this year. We thank the Ministry of Education for calculating the new formula for their wages. We hope that by the second reading, the funds will be provided under this formula, and next year, our teachers will have all the funding. Yes, there are sad moments, since the minimum wage in the following year is not as high as in the previous years. But at least this minimum, our teachers need to be provided, we need to ensure that the school network and the villages continue to develop, because teachers are the intelligence of the village. And there is no need to close the school in the country, to support and develop, and that depends on the future of our entire country, whose proud name is Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u9	Please, National Deputy Kostenko Roman Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, today the Supreme Council will be reviewing the report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the collapse of the special operation on "vagants." And the very name of this commission is that it is a matter of investigating possible illegal actions by representatives of the public authorities. And this report just doesn't have any evidence of government officials who had anything to do with this special operation, it's just that the interim commission of inquiry hasn't been able to question them. As we remember, the main task of this commission was not to establish the fact of the special operation itself, which the Voice faction had been talking about from the very beginning, but to learn the truth, and whether there was a betrayal in the President's Office, and who was involved in this operation from the higher leadership of the state. And that is why those men who were supposed to appear before the Ukrainian court calmly returned to the Russian Federation instead of sitting in our prisons right now. Unfortunately, we didn't get the answers. And six months later, in this very report, there's much less information than in the media, the media has now provided more information than the entire temporary commission of inquiry. The work of this temporary investigator led to investigators going to political shows and talking about how this special operation went, realizing that they had not been heard. So what are we going to vote for now? Could it be better to vote for Bellingcat's investigation, because there is any mention of the government's superior leadership and their involvement in this special operation? Dear colleagues, I'm now being approached by scouts, investigators, new people who were involved in this special operation, and they're talking about pressure and illegal action by the authorities. In particular, about falsifying classified documents for this operation and providing TSCs with incorrect data, false data. They are worth listening to quickly, not doing anything else. Therefore, we firmly oppose the legalization of this report and call on all conscious deputies not to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u11	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni, a faction of political "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u13	Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u14	Dear Ukrainians! The day before, Vladimir Zelensky tried to hold a press conference, and a marathon of hammocks and lies came out, where we saw once again the real face of this power. But in 5.5 hours, society never received answers to the most painful questions. For example, do we have a Supreme Commander who can protect the state in the event of an escalation of Russian aggression or not? Because while Western partners are alarmed by a crowd of Russian troops on the border, Zelenski is having fun with Jermak at the State Department for your money with DSS helicopters and with sandwiches. Interestingly, 11 million dollars were spent in November. That's a good way to eat a sandwich. The Ukrainians are also shocked by Zelenski's complicity in the collapse of the "vagnerow" special operation, especially after the statement of the chief of intelligence of Vasil Burba of the Russian Moor in Bankova. Let me remind you that "vagner's" operation was not the only one that broke down because of a traitor in the highest offices. And a so - called press conference, according to the Bellingcat investigators, revealed more questions than answers. Journalists and Burba's testimony have destroyed the entire report of the pseudo-Tsk authorities. The report can't be complete at least without questioning the main figures of the scandal, including Zelensky. So "European Solidarity" requires this week to create a real TSC to conduct a real impartial investigation. Because manual forces, instead of real investigation, opened up a case against a journalist who, from day one, had been talking about the state of treason in the bank, and on the marathon he had an argument with Zelenski. People also wonder why Zelensky requires his deputies to adopt a bill of 5,600, which will increase the tax pressure on every Ukrainian, when he himself hid tens of millions of dollars in offshore taxes for years. Even more people are concerned about what Zelensky is doing to prevent light and heat from being turned off in our homes. Because at this point in energy, a catastrophic situation, TEC and TES warehouses are almost empty, two-thirds of the blocks don't work because of lack of coal and lack of professional power. Ukraine continues to increase its dependence on the Kremlin by buying electricity in Belarus. And also pensioners and low-income families would like to know when you, the "ministers of the people", are voting in favour of Bill 6006, to distribute the IMF-given $2.7 billion, which European Solidarity requires a 13th pension, a subsidy and a fight against COVID. But instead of answering, the Ukrainians received a portion of their vision: in the President’s chair there was not a simple boy from the people, but a professional liar who hid money from offshore taxation, who still sells TV shows in Russia, covers treason, abuses state privileges, and cannot learn to be civilized with journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u15	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Krulk Ivan Ivanovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian "Fatherland" union.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u16	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, today's speech on behalf of the Fatherland faction, I would like to begin with a situation that has resulted in the actual destruction of small businesses in Ukraine, all those people who are paying taxes to the state who are creating new jobs that have not gone to work in Poland, in other countries of Europe, stayed in Ukraine, work here, give birth to children and create additional GDP for our country. So essentially these changes, absolutely dragonlike for them, for small entrepreneurs, for the FOPs that were adopted in this room by today's monotonous size, not just put them on their knees, in fact, going to destroy, the dimensional destruction of the middle class. And tomorrow, small entrepreneurs come under the walls of the Supreme Council to demand that Parliament take a decision this year to all those holidays where everyone was buying tickets, in December, we need to make a decision on Bill 5866. By the way, some of the people's "ministers" were represented. It's a bill that solves the problems of small businesses and allows them to enter the new 2022 and be sure that they can work. Moreover, in this connection we want to say that the Law 5600 is totally unacceptable. This is another great bill that deals with the destruction of a medium - sized enterprise that beats villages, for those who have 50 hundred lands that grow products on this earth, partly of which they can sell and partly of which they live. So from these small farmers, small farmers take the last one and want to pay extra taxes. We are firmly opposed to Bill 5600 and consider it unacceptable in this session room. And one more thing. The Fatherland faction believes that this year there was a planned manual energy crisis, when Naftogaz did not buy it this spring, with $2 billion in bills, a gas in the shelter to supply the Ukrainian population with gas, at $200 and a price of more than a thousand dollars per thousand cubic metres. This was a really planned action. So this week, a temporary investigation commission will be set up at the request of Julia Timoshenko and the "Fatherland" faction, which will verify Naftogazu's activities and give an accurate answer to the whole community: why an energy crisis was created, not a gas purchased, and why Ukraine found itself in such a difficult situation before the heating season.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u17	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the City Jury Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life"
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u18	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine Yuri Anatoliovich Boyka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u19	Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs! Last week we had a so-called President's Equator and a press conference dedicated to this glorious date. Clearly, people were awaiting answers to questions about why the key promises that this political power and today’s president had not been fulfilled. Why is there no peace in the eastern part of the country? It's as far away as it was two years ago. Why are public tariffs increasing rather than decreasing as promised? Where is the fight against the epidemic that the president of today called himself a sport master in the fight against COVID? In fact, our country was second in number to the world’s dead. There is no answer. But it's not only today's President who's responsible for this mess in the country, it's the responsibility of most of the parliament that's in the room, because they've all obediently followed all the instructions from the President's Office, and they've completely distanced themselves from the life of the country, from the needs of the people, and because of that they've lost the trust of society. This Parliament started its work two years ago with a confidence level of 65 percent, today 6 percent. I am absolutely sure that Parliament, which only 6 percent of citizens trust, has no right to represent the interests of the Ukrainian people. And if there's a political conscience, it has to be admitted that this composition of Parliament as a result of the position of majority did not come together, to give mandates, to self-dissolve and to go to elections, because that's what 70 percent of Ukrainian citizens want, to stand up for the election of the Supreme Council, that's fair, that's fair. And our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" thinks it's necessary to do so, and Ukrainian citizens will choose new MPs who will really protect them, not engage in political strife, political imagery, but protect people and do what they were promised when they went to the elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, we've finished our performances. Showtime's up. And before I went into question, I came up with a statement from two political factions with a break and a replacement for the performance. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Sosi Roman Vasilovich, please. National MP Soha, where are you?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u22	I can get started. Good afternoon! Roman Soha, Zaporozhye, 75th District. I'd like to address the members of the "Slut of the People" faction and the colleagues who represent the Zaporez region. From day one, I supported Vladimir Zelensky and joined the Ze-command in Zaporozhye, because Vladimir Alexanderovich declared what we had been waiting for all the years of independence -- the end of the clan-oligaric system, the eradication of best manhood and political corruption, the end of the era of poverty and social injustice. Mr. President, you promised that there would be new faces in our ranks, people who have never been in politics that are not relevant to the schemes and who have not robbed the country. You promised a new generation of statesmen with a hot heart, a bright mind, a crystal clear reputation. Today I see Mr. Shurma's appointment as Vice President's Office. He's formerly a pro-Russian opposition bloc official, trying to break fair elections in Zaporozhye using dirty technologies. The storm is part of an old corrupt system, and he fought for it, for preserving this system at the cost of breaking the law. We have a war, and the president's economics officer is putting a person who has such a background and a reputation and who has certainly not been a proponent of Ukraine's European path in the past. So what's going on? It's not what we promised people. I've repeatedly turned to party and faction leadership, and I've brought to the attention of people who are tired of these scandals and lose hope for change, but they can't hear us. For me, Shurma himself is the last drop, and I am very ashamed of this assignment. As well as for the appointment of militiaman Yanukovic Oleg Tatarov, lobbyist for the Harkow Agreements of Ruslan Demchenk. These people should not be in public office. I don't want to or can't be touched by people who don't fit the principles that we've declared when we go to elections. I want to be honest in front of myself and in front of the voters I have no shame in looking into my eyes. That's why I made a difficult but fair decision, I'm leaving the "Serial of the People" faction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, the list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making today, you have been given, and we are moving on to their consideration. Dear colleagues, question 6324 is proposed for consideration, this is the draft Decree on the interim report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible illegal actions by representatives of State authorities and other persons who could contribute to the violation of national sovereignty, territorial integrity and inviolability of Ukraine and threaten the national security of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has received an interim report from the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible illegal actions by representatives of State authorities and others who may have contributed to the violation of national sovereignty, territorial integrity and inviolability of Ukraine and threaten the national security of Ukraine. This is Project Registration Number 6324. According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this issue is included in the agenda of the day’s session in turn and without a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. Once again, we vote on the issue of a reduced procedure. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:28:45]] For 231 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that in the brief discussion there are representatives of the two MP factions, the pro-deputy groups, and they represent their two MP factions, the MP groups that are "against". Showtime is up to 2 minutes. One representative from the MPs, the MPs whose representatives did not participate in the discussion, next spokes for the reasons for the vote. Showtime is up to 1 minute. Please sign up for the performance. Stop, dear colleagues, I'm sorry. We don't sign up for the performance. Let's move on to the question. The report is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the head of Ukraine’s Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Marianne Volodymyrovne Besogly. Please, Mariana Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u24	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, Ukrainians, in an investigation into issues of social interest, the commission approved the plan and order of work, prepared and addressed in writing. The TSC has studied information from open sources, materials from an independent international team of investigators, and civilian journalists Bellingcat. From the archival storage of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, materials were received by the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of tragic events that led to the death and capture of prisoners of volunteer battalions and also soldiers of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the National Guard of Ukraine near the city of Ilowaysk Donetsk Region, which was formed according to a Supreme Council decree in 2014. A majority of the collected materials were obtained by the commission from the authorized persons of the state authorities from the evidence they gave under the protocol, including in a closed regime in compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian State Secret Act, for which the bearer of the witness is personally responsible. The Commission was able to listen to representatives of the Attorney General’s Office and the investigation units of the Ukrainian Security Service and the State Bureau of Investigation about the state of criminal investigation of the cases. The commission was also invited and heard by public officials and persons who could have access to information about the work of the service. During her work, the Commission gained unprecedented access to secret and secret information for the Ukrainian Parliament, and for the first time in the country’s history, it thoroughly examined the activities of the intelligence community. Dear colleagues, the results of the work are presented in the report. It is also suggested that Parliament's draft rulings take into account, take into account the interim report of the interim commission of inquiry and send an interim report to the relevant authorities, and also recommend that the Attorney General's Office take separate criminal investigation controls on criminal conduct.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up now. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Gmerenecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u27	Please, Gmerenecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, it is very important to understand that the task of the TSC was to divide politics and legal facts. We got all the documents that were possible, and we questioned all the possible witnesses on either side and on the other side. We have established only facts that can be supported by specific documents, specific testimonies. Each sentence in the TSC report is backed up by interrogation protocols or certain documents. And anyone who has access to a public secret can go to the secret office of the Supreme Council and get to know all these materials. So it's not some thought or hypothesis of the members of the TSC, it's a concrete fact that's in the archive of parliament. The other one. What is the purpose of this report? To keep things moving. Today, it is very important to transfer those materials that have been stockpiled by Ukraine's intelligence on the fighters who fought against Ukraine, hundreds of people, not dozens of people, hundreds of people, we need to transmit this information to Interpol so that our international partners, international law enforcement agencies can work further, these people can be detained, these fighters can be punished. It's a different matter. We've really established a number of shortcomings in the work of law enforcement agencies. And it's very important for Parliament to tell the law enforcement authorities what these shortcomings are, and these law enforcement authorities have had the opportunity to correct them and work on them. Therefore, the TSK report launches a full cascading of other processes that are important for Ukraine, both in the foreign political arena and in the internal political arena, but the TSC continues to work is an interim report. Let us give other bodies the opportunity to work, to work with our international partners, and then, in the course of the new facts, a new witness, together with you, we will confirm a final report that may be more complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u29	The word is given to Ukrainian National Deputy Ustinovy Alexandri Yuriovni, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u30	Get Bobrovsky on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u31	Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u32	Samantha Bobrowski, Justice Union. You know, it seems to me that when we go into such overly sensitive topics that concern, in particular, treason, we all fear the truth. And we are all afraid to take a step toward this truth. And I have no confidence in any of the investigations that were made last week, nor in the investigations that were published, nor, of course, in the interim report of the TSC. Because I know about this TSC, and I know how the officials who are the holders of the State Secret should have been summoned to this TSC for questioning and for drawing up the following protocols. This was not done. Just as it was not done that those who were present, when, as it were, the suspension was authorized, which seemed not to have been authorized, were to report on who was behind the last word. And today, the level of politicization of the Wagnerian case is absolutely cloudy, which is actually a personal community that is hurting each and every one of us and country in particular, more so, including our intelligence agencies. One more thing, the most important moment. I'm very sorry and disgraceful when in the evening at the political talk show, the people who had a bearing on this operation are telling the state secret to the whole country, and then it's still unknown to all of us, are they present in this country? You know the value of a state secret, each one of you, because you signed certain documents. This is shameful and unacceptable. Because these things are supposed to be done in the U.S.A., in the U.S.A., in the D.B., in Parliament, and especially in the T.S.C. And the TSC didn't do its job. What's more, and most importantly, this operation has been able to show us all the ability and quality, the high quality of our intelligence bodies. But in search of the essence of this operation, we failed and showed that today our intelligence is one of the most incompetent, with which I actually welcome you. It's a disgrace. And shame to all of us, dear fellows, beginning with one camp and ending with others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u33	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Irina Volodymyrni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u35	Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u36	Dear Ukrainians! Of course, I would like to discuss the TSC report today. But we see the TSN's opus, where only the "servants" are gathered. And in fact, after the pre-performance that became the marathon of Zelensky's lie, the questions before, so who failed this operation, who betrayed Ukrainian spies, and why did they end this operation at the final stage, became much more. That's what investigative journalists are talking about today. It's absolutely true that the only person who broke the State Secret Act was Zelensky, who poured out everything he knew and didn't know during his pre-performance. And after that, if the country really had D.B.R., N.A.U., S.B.I., they would have been questioned, both by Greensky and his Chief of Staff. But at present we have criminal cases involving, not the leadership of the state, but Ukrainian journalists Butusov, Janin Sokolov, and others. Everything in this country is turned like Orvella, upside down. So in fact, if there's still some dignity in this room, we need to immediately create a real temporary commission of inquiry where there will be no conflict of interest. The next commission is a tool of opposition, and it is not possible to lead the person who lives in the Bank today and receives instructions there. And the "ministers" who are part of this TSC should be testifying to the disbarment of Ukrainian intelligence to the intelligence services. We demand: first, from the law enforcement authorities to question Zelenski, Jermak and all those present at the ominous meeting; second, to create a real TSC to be led by the opposition. Well, what Mrs. Mariana's doing is, of course, an ostrich with no confidence. And I call first of all "servicing" who were once volunteers, military, let's protect, not discredit.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u37	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Volodymyr Viktorovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u38	Please give me the word of Murmitch Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u39	Anatoly Petrovich Burmich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u40	Dear Head, honourable deputies! I find it hard to suspect in my affections for today’s authorities, and I find it hard to suspect in my affections for the superior leadership of the country. But I've always been speaking, speaking and speaking for the truth, so that I can see in all the actions different versions. First thing I want to say. I personally think that this special operation was against the interests of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. It's not the tail that spins the dog, it's the dog that spins the tail. And the Commander-in-Chief had every right to stop, send or transport, cancel the operation if it is not in the country's best interests at the moment. And you know, in a few days, there should be a meeting between Jermak and Kozak in Germany, where more important issues will be resolved, namely, peace on Donbassa and others. Next. But a temporary commission of inquiry led by Mrs. Toothless, I think it's incompetent, and I think it needs to be reinstated and carried out more deeply. We wanted to participate, we wanted to ask questions, but Basil German himself and I were not allowed. Why? I really want to know what the purpose of this special operation was: to hang Ukraine by the rib more or any other one of them had a motive. I want to know the report of the accounting office she financed. I want to know if it was an operational-search case, because this special operation was counterintelligence, not intelligence, functions and expertise. And for today, there's this noise that's all around her.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there were factions that were recorded: two in favour, two in opposition. Of those who have not signed up, anyone else would like to speak, please? The Fatherland faction, the Future Group, the Trust Group, they don't want to speak. Thank you. Then, dear colleagues, please take your seats, let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, let us move on to making a decision on this matter. I am voting for the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 6324) on the interim report of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible illegal actions by representatives of State authorities and other persons who may have contributed to the violation of national sovereignty, territorial integrity and inviolability of Ukraine and constitute a threat to Ukraine's national security. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:43:10]] For 251 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the interim commission of inquiry for your work. The interim report of the commission has been taken into account. The report will be sent to the Office of the Attorney General, the Ukrainian Security Service, the State Bureau of Investigation for review within the scope of competence and appropriate response. The Attorney General’s Office’s request to take this issue into separate control, as stated in the report. Dear colleagues, before we go to the next question, there is a proposal to vote on a procedural decision. Dear colleagues, tomorrow, December 1st, there will be a hearing of a message by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Ukraine's internal and external status. After hearing the message, it is planned to award the State Prize on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the All-U.S. referendum on Ukraine's independence, which was initiated and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To this end, in accordance with article 6 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we need to make a procedural decision regarding the invitation of individuals to be rewarded on the occasion of this momentous event before the Hall of Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, the proposal for an invitation is put to the vote. Talk about it one minute at a time, huh? Okay. Then one minute, it's a procedural decision. Irina Volodymyrna's character. If you want, raise your hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians, on the Conciliation Council of European Solidarity, asked the President of Parliament to invite "European Solidarity" and the leaders of other groups and factions to a private meeting with Zelensky to discuss security issues, to discuss a scandal around "Vagregate", the betrayal of Ukrainian spies, the usurpation of power that is being prepared in connection with the unconstitutional appointment of two judges of the Constitutional Court, the situation of COVID, the economic crisis, the energy crisis. Zelensky remains the only President of Ukraine who has had no meeting with representatives of Parliament All other presidents have respected the people's deputies, the factions, realizing that this is the representation of the Ukrainian people. So here's what I want to tell you, fellow Ukrainians, that the "ministers of the people" have voted against such a meeting. And after that, when something is said that, you know, there is no validity in meeting the President with the Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one wants to speak anymore. Then, with your permission, I'm putting to the vote an invitation to the plenary session on December 1st to the Hall of the Supreme Council of Persons to reward on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the All-U.S. referendum on Ukraine's independence. Lists of invited people are given to you. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[10:46:13]] For 330. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, for the consolidation in the hall. The next question is 5893-13, this is the draft Order for Amendments to the Order of the Sixth Day Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. Is there a need to discuss? If necessary, we are discussing a reduced procedure in accordance with the Rules. Please register: two, two, against, to discuss this decision. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Bragar Evgen Vadimovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u44	Please pass on the word to Kowalczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u45	Please, National Deputy Kovalczuk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u46	Kowalczuk Alexander, "Slut of the People" faction, Equinox. Dear colleagues, I ask of myself, from colleagues who have been consulted today and who have spoken of these changes to the agenda, to support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u47	Thank you. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, faction of the political party "Golos". It's an order of the day, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that our bills, including ours, are in this order of the day, we will support it and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u49	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ariev Volodymyr Igorovich, faction of "European Solidarity", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u51	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u52	Dear Ukrainians! Now it's supposed to be a technical decision to put drafts into the agenda. First of all, it seems like technical decisions, this bill proves to us once again that today, at all costs, the majority doesn't want to see laws that are aimed at the welfare of citizens and at tackling the threats facing the state today. There are no European Solidarity Bills, there are no bills, as I understand, of many other opposition factions. But now I'd like to take this moment and talk about the next. As you know, it was only September, October and November that nearly 32,000 citizens of Ukraine were killed by COVID. Think about it, it's only 32,000 in these three months. One of the reasons for this tragedy is that money from the Antiquities Fund has been stolen in a banal way and has not been used for purpose and has been used for disposal, and for pay in envelopes. That's why the European Solidarity Order, along with colleagues from the Vote Opposition, Fatherland, registered Decree 6353 on the establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate thefts from the Antiquities Fund. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have a great request for the next bill of amendments to the agenda, mandatory for Order 6353 on the establishment of the TSK for the investigation of thefts from the Antiquities Fund to include and vote on. Let's see who's in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u53	Clovo is provided to Ukraine's national deputy, Volodymyr Viktorovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u54	Please give me the word of Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u55	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that in this draft of decisions, the list that is indicated is rather a non-systematic and extremely unsuspecting content. Why? Because if you and I analyze the latest data that's come out, and we've got more debt on the payroll -- over 4 billion dollars. We have an increasing state-guaranteed debt. There is a devaluation of the national monetary unit. Housing-communal services are increasing. And so on and so on and so forth. The issue of resolving the conflict at Donbassa -- we don't see these issues again. What will the President tell us tomorrow? Let him better register draft laws that approach peace: amnesty, special status, elections, and so forth. Other things have to be reflected in such draft regulations to keep the country moving forward so that the country does not lose its investment potential, but rather grow. This is the first moment. One second. If you look at the specificity of the initiatives given, there is, again, no proposal for the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" in the extent to which there is to be a proportional, proportional distribution of mandates to the total. As long as this figure is gone, we will not support such draft regulations. That's two. And the third moment, the last. Today, Ukraine needs new economic instruments for accelerated economic growth. We don't see that again. So from this point of view, we insist that: (a) the agenda responds to the challenges of the time that today is in the country (this issue of peace, this is overcoming the energy crisis, this is overcoming the social, tariff inequality) and (b) the most important, new key, principle-new economic agenda of the government that will implement the relevant proposals in those bills that will contribute to economic growth. Please do not support this draft decree as one that conflicts with national economic interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we still have two people who I understand are Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko and Paul Bakunets, and then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. I give you my word, please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, it's not a technical document, it's a completely ideological document that shows how the majority sees further development of the country and what they include in the agenda and what they don't include in the agenda. The agenda does not include the initiatives of the opposition political forces, primarily the "Paternity" party, which are aimed at reducing tariffs for people so that they can at least increase their pensions a little bit to help business resolve the issues that business faces during the coronavirus. Instead, there are completely different bills that allow all of the conditionally additional funds to be allocated to Big Construction. Once again, this is not a technical document, this document is absolutely ideological. Since the majority fraction considers it necessary to consider only its own drafts, let them consider for themselves. I ask everyone else not to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u59	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Bakuña Paul Andriyovich, and then we go to the vote. Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u60	The "Trust" MP group is also abstaining today from voting for this agenda. We asked the Conciliation Council yesterday to include in the agenda a bill of 3034 on the limitation of civil servants' salaries, which is not available this week. And we're also asking you all here in this room to understand those people who are standing under the walls of the Supreme Council today on the Main Independence Day, that's the basis of our country, that entrepreneurs need to listen to them. The pandemic didn't pass, the COVID didn't pass, the people didn't stop making any more money. So we need to continue to defer as a minimum the application of the RRO, and we need to consider this bill that they require, and here in the hall, we need to look them in the eye and go to the base of our country -- our entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u61	Thank you. Anyone else want to come out? Then the discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Order on Change in the Order of the Day Sixth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call (project registration number 5893-13). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:55:50]] For 265 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. The next question is the draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the creation of a central executive body in the field of child rights, the State Service for Children (project registration number 6135). How much they told me there was a consensus to accept this issue without discussion. Can we vote? Dear colleagues, then I put the question to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't want to, do you? All right, then let me ask you a question about this short-term project. Please vote. [[10:56:49]] For 267 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to the head of the committee's Subcommittee on Humanities and Information Policy, Screep of Tetjan Vasilovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u62	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your view is on the proposal of the Supreme Council's decision to refer the Cabinet of Ministers to the creation of a central executive body in the field of child rights, namely the Ukrainian State Service for Children. Currently, there are about 7.5 million children in Ukraine, and as a result of the short reform of the child protection system, the sixth part of the Ukrainian Social Council has been overlooked by the State. I would like to point out that in 2011, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child recommended that Ukraine establish a separate government body at a higher level to take care of child protection issues. In ten years, however, our state has failed to create such a state body, and instead of a single coordinating body in the field of children's rights, we have two of them today — the Ministry of Social Policy and the National Service. In view of the violent negative situation facing our children, the creation of a single State Service in Ukraine in children's affairs, whose activities will be directed and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers, and which will not only implement state policy in this area, but also shape it, it is a real opportunity to protect the rights of our children. The Committee on Humanities and Information Policy at its meeting reviewed the draft decree on October 6, and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis and as a whole. Please support the committee's decision and protect the rights of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u63	Thank you, Aunt Vasilyvna. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two for, two for, please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Muchenec Oleni Volodymyrni, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Paul Suško.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u65	Paul Susko, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, the creation of a central executive body that will implement state policy in the area of adoption and protection of children's rights, now more than ever. Before that decision, we, as members of the professional TSC, went through a difficult way of looking for a form of work that would help solve a child's problems in a complex way. Of course, the terrible experiences with children that we have been witnessing lately have been a start. Last week, in a terrible fire in the village of Mediciwa Hmelnitska District, four young children were killed because of the negligence of their parents, and they did not stay in the service. For days she was shocked by the news of the incident in Bloody Rose, and the mother there led a 15-year-old child with disabilities to exhaustion, and the girl weighs 9 kilograms. All of these incidents indicate that there is simply no effective child protection system in the country. Please support the creation of the Ukrainian State Service for Children. The creation of this organ is the only chance to bring about a system of child protection. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u67	The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP Labazuk Sergey Petrovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u68	I'd like you to pass it on to Constancewich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u69	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I urge you all to support this decision as it is supported by the Marjorie MPs of the Party for the Future. Our main argument is that we really have a colossal problem with social protection for children, and unfortunately this problem hasn't been solved in years, the crisis has only deepened. And it's only this year that we see that the efforts of the profiling committee and the great work of the individual deputies, among whom the national deputy Paul Susko, have done a great job of putting everything on your head. So I'm asking you to support this decision, because it's the kind of chaos that happens in the social protection of children, and we have to do that in view of the problem of decentralization. We can see that there is no proper distinction between social protection and child care. So please support, and the executive central authority still needs to do everything in its power to protect the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u71	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Tsimbaluuk Mikhailovich, please the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u72	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in fact, the decision to create a separate central executive body to protect children's rights is a necessary decision, but too late. We see what statistics show that only last year more than 60 percent of cases have been broken because children are running away from home and parents are failing to fulfill their responsibilities. We see statistics saying that more than 17,000 children today are deprived of parental care and are orphans. And they're more loyal to 69, and 17,000 are waiting for adoption. More than a thousand parents are ready to adopt their children. Today, order is also needed in this regard. And we think that this service has all the possibilities of finally systematizing the process in the state. But there is another thing that this service will predict and create its work in places. For the production of state policy is not always implemented in the territory of united communities, districts and districts. We see that not all territorial communities have created similar units. We also need to think about it so that district administrations and district administrations can deal with it in order for the units to be created in areas, in district administrations, in district administrations, but necessarily in the territorial communities, where these children and families actually live and live. The Fatherland faction will support this draft decision. And we demand that the authorities finally systematize this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u73	The word is given to the National Deputy Pavelska Rostislav Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u74	Thank you. Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u75	Sophia Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, the "European Solidarity" faction will support this call for the creation of a central authority on children's issues, child protection, but I would like to highlight a few very important points. First. This is Kabmin's jurisdiction, and if we, as national MPs, have to make a separate appeal, with a separate decision, this is evidence of inefficiency and the operational inability of the Cabinet of Ministers to resolve such important issues. Secondly, when child service competences were previously replaced by the Ministry of Social Policy, it was anticipated that the Ministry of Social Policy would work, be ready to hear and be ready to implement child protection policies. But in fact, as we've seen on the committee, a large part is, unfortunately, a hammock, and on the other hand, a large part is absolute inefficiency and incomprehensibility. Third. Now that we're taking this approach today, this determination, I'd like to emphasize the importance of how to deal with children's problems. Very often in the Ukrainian state, unfortunately, in the 30th year of independence, children are perceived as a problem, a resource with which to do something difficult, and above all respect for a child. First of all, there must be an investment in a child, a protection of a child's rights, because if we raise a full-fledged citizen from a young age, then the Ukrainian state will succeed. So first of all, I urge you to support this draft decision, but I also urge that Kabdin finally hear that you have to work, not do stupid things.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u77	Yeah, I can see that. Please, Julia Klimenko, Voice. And then Larissa Bilozer, and then we move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, Klimenko, Justice. I am a member of the Temporary Investigation Commission for the reform of the institutional care of children. I want to tell you, this kind of chaos, this completely inefficient spending of state funds and the lack of child protection, as we see in this area, I honestly haven't seen in any Ukrainian chaotic state system. We have so many government agencies that deal with children, and no one protects them. In Ukraine 100,000 children in institutional care, 11 billion are spent by the state to support these children. Please tell me, although one body is responsible for this child’s education, socialization, and even though I do not know that 50 percent of these costs come from a particular person, a child to protect him? The child will receive 10 percent of this budget. So I hope that the new body will not only have sufficient authority and will centralize everything to protect children, but will.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u79	The word is given to the National MP, Bilozore Larissa. After that, Pauline, and after that, let us turn to the vote, dear fellow believers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u80	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Indeed, because of the administrative chaos, in fact, the removal of services in human affairs by 30 percent of the reduced workers. We can actually see that they're unable to perform the child protection function. As far as the National Social Service is concerned, we have a situation in which the new system has not yet been created, and the old system has already been destroyed. Our interim commission of inquiry on child protection has learned this very thoroughly and has concluded that when we are in the process of decentralization and we are in the process of acting in an incomprehensible way, sometimes under the law of the Ministry of Social Policy, we must urgently create a public service for children in order to avoid a collapse in the system of protection of children's rights. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u81	Thank you. And the final word of the national deputy Paulanka Yuri Alexiyovich. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u82	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! "The Opposition Platform for Life" supports this initiative, formed by a profile committee and a temporary commission of inquiry. Why? Because in recent years all negative aspects of child protection and protection have deteriorated. After the liquidation of the Family, Youth, and Sports Ministry, after the elimination of the relevant State Department of Child Protection, we received a balanced policy in the field of child rights. As the proverb says, a child with no eyes is seven. This has to be done. And I hope that as a result of today's decision, the Supreme Council of the Cabinet of Ministers will react quickly. And we will restore full state policy to the protection and protection of children's rights, starting at the basic local level and ending with the central executive authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. I am voting on the proposal of the committee to accept, in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the creation of a central executive body in the field of child rights, the State Service for children (project registration number 6135). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:11:19]] For 349 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, before I go to the next question, I give the floor first to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Cornienne Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, according to article 60, prime. 1 I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the inter-fractional parliamentary association "Ukrainian Railways". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Tishchenko Mikolayovich, was elected head of this association. Pursuant to article 60, prime. 1 I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation of the interfractional Galorca MPs. The head of this unification of Ukraine’s elected national deputy, Vlasenka Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u85	Thank you. I give the floor to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oleni Kostovni Kondratjuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u86	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Good morning, dear colleagues! From November 25th to December 10th, the "16 Days Against Violence" campaign, which Ukraine has been supporting for over 20 years. Today, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with representatives of the international organization White Tape on the first floor of Parliament's towers, there's an exhibition called "It's not a game." You can read the newsstands of this exhibition, test the special app for resisting violence, display it, and wear a white ribbon to show respect and support for this action. Please all actively join in and remember that we cannot silence violence, cannot tolerate it, and must fight against all the methods that we possess. Thank you. It's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u87	Thank you, Olena Kostveno. Well, dear fellows, let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, this is Bill 5600. On October 5, at the request of 160 people's deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to apply a special procedure for the consideration of draft bills in the second reading provided for in article 119-1 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, namely, the second reading of the draft Act (registration number 5600) amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and certain legislative acts to ensure the balance of budgetary revenues. The Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs has generalized the proposals and amendments that have come from factions and national deputies and has prepared a detailed comparative table for the second reading of Bill 5,600. Dear colleagues, let us turn to this issue. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danil Alejandro Gettmanchev. I would like to remind you that according to the Rules of Article 119 pr. Foresaw a presentation in two minutes, first of all, the committee head, so that we could understand how the committee went. After that, adjustments may be made. And the person who makes the correction has up to two minutes to justify it, not one, as usual, but up to two minutes. And after that, some amendments can be made to confirm it, up here in one minute. But as we've always done, first we're going to put the ones that are to be considered and then the ones that are to be confirmed. I would like to give the floor to the Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Mr. Getmantsev Danil Aleksandrovitch, in two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is probably the most difficult bill of our committee this year, submitted before the first reading of 11.5,000 parliamentary proposals and amendments. The consideration of this bill in the hall was thus impossible in connection with the long-term discussion of all these amendments, most of which, let's say softly, did not have any meaningful effort. Thus, the Supreme Council applied the procedure provided for in article 119. The rules of the Supreme Council. As a result of this procedure, five rights were passed from each MP group and faction, none of which were given at all, but most of the MPs made corrections. And we did the technical work by the committee, actually, we summed up the amendments and added to them the amendments that were considered by the committee. In general, the table for second reading contains 159 amendments and proposals by national deputies, 29 of which are included, and all others are included. In view of the above, you and I have made a fairly balanced, very useful bill for the State, which I ask the national MPs to support. Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u89	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the amendments. We're going to go one by one, just like they're supposed to, I understand? The 3rd Amendment, this is an amendment from the deputy faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Who will report on this amendment? Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please 3 amendments. In 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u90	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Honourable Reporter, Honorable Ukrainian People! Bill 5600, first of all, the government beats the poorest and collects taxes from those to whom it has to help. In the Supreme Council, unfortunately, all procedures are being violated, the Rules are being violated, and this bill is being extended, which introduces an additional tax on those who can become small farmers and those who process their pies and produce agricultural products to feed their families or sell them on the market. Farmers cannot afford these taxes, and they will either be in debt or have to sell their land. And it also reduces the ability of small businesses, the FOPs to engage in all sorts of business activities. In addition, there is an official call by the European Business Association to Parliament and the President, in which virtually all state entrepreneurs are united, demanding that this bill be withdrawn immediately at number 5600. All owners of agricultural land that are located outside populated areas will have to pay no less than a minimum amount of tax – about 1 thousand 500 dollars per hectare, honorable, whether they grow there to maintain support farming or for sale. There are many areas that the owner may want to rent, but he cannot because his land is surrounded by other areas. So by this bill you're driving these people out of your country, forcing them to sell it. We are definitely against this bill. Let's do line number three.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u91	Committee position, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u92	Thank you. Actually, Amendment 3 does not apply to the speech you just heard, it's about other things, but it's usually already in this room. So I'm going to answer the point of the speech. You're talking about rural farms that aren't supported, and that's wrong, that's not true. Rural farming, if registered, receives 5,000 dollars per hectare from the State of Grants. It receives 5,000 for a cow from the state of donations, up to 50 cows. The State pays the EU’s pension in fact for the farmer and for the members of his family. The State grants 50 percent of the tax, tax on the tax liability imposed in this bill, pursuant to this law. So let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u93	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, the 3rd amendment, it was rejected by the committee, you heard the committee's position, why. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please identify and vote. [[11:20:45.]] For-75 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is from the deputy faction of the political party Voice. Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, please 4 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I'm going to talk about the bill first, and then the amendment, it's short enough. The 5600 has indeed become such a terrible example when the parliament of our convocation in the last moment is making tax changes, and all associations have come up against it in vain. It will be honest and honest to say that thanks to the normal work of our committee, many things have been corrected. And it's fair and honest to say that because of the position, Danilo Alexanderovich, including yours, was able for us, all the opposition forces, to be on the committee and for 30 hours to discuss the bill. Yet, there are many things that have not been corrected. My rights, five of them, are based on the position of the American Chamber of Commerce, the European Business Association, the Business Council and the Association of Ukrainian Entrepreneurs. The amendment that we're talking about right now is to leave the regulation of tax regulations for local authorities to publish their decision in a month, so that every businessman, entrepreneur and even citizen can see what he proposes to change the tax legislation or the tax rate of his local authority. This rule applies to legislation, by the way, it also applies to bills that are being tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill now proposes to remove this fuse, and then the local authorities can change taxes at any time, sometimes in a smaller way, as we suggested, during the coronavirus, and sometimes into a larger one. And I have such a convincing feeling that it's just going to be bigger. That's why Rule 4 suggests leaving the status quo and leaving all the requirements and safeguards to such sharp changes at the local level of taxes as it is now, that is, at least one month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u95	Please, the committee's line, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u96	Dear colleague, in fact, virtually all the myths that relate to this bill are caused by the fact that this bill is not being read, and unfortunately, we have this situation right here. Because your revision refers to a standard that you just described that is not included in the table in the right column of the second reading. Just like you said, when we discussed this bill on the committee, it was we who ruled it out. So let's read what we're criticizing, and maybe it won't look so odious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u97	You insist, don't you? Don't insist, thank you, for the vote. Let's move on. Next amendment 6. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u98	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. We belong to those who read the laws that they file and more to the last version of the bill. The chairman of the committee said that this would apply only to those who register farms. Yes, and we're talking about one-persons who aren't registered, who are today producing agricultural products on their land for themselves, and they're only selling surpluses. How can they be? And you went, like in Stalin times, that you might still want for every apple to pay taxes to cut out the gardens? Dear colleagues, 50 hectares you only allow – you tax everything above. Remember, back in those days, read the story of what it led to. What do you suggest? Let the farmer, with 50 hundred and more, register as a farmer, and then you tax him. Dear colleagues, there was no such thing. Next, you're still "happy" farmers, those who sell their agricultural products, and over 72,000 dollars you're already making him pay 18 percent of his taxes and another half of his military congregation. The peasant can't take it. By this bill, you decided to load up the peasants. People are good people, and so there is nothing to live for, and these people are waiting to grow up and sell agricultural products. And food for the citizens and for everyone else has increased. We will not vote for this, but please put the amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u99	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u100	These unregistered ones you're talking about are eight million acres [8 million ha] in Ukraine. It's a third, a third of the entire agricultural land that's being processed "black" that's taking out income primarily from the local self-government. Our communities are being deprived of income by those who process black land, then collect this grain and sell it to black buyers. Without being registered, he cheats on himself, cheats on his family, and makes a living by insisting that we do not make that decision. That's why we choose to either register and receive huge grants from the state or not work "black." And by the way, this amendment doesn't apply to this issue at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the 6th amendment, it's from the "Fatherland" faction by Julia Timoshenko and her colleagues, she's been rejected by the committee, you've heard the argument of the parties. So please identify and vote. [[11:27:28]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The next amendment, as far as I can see, is 13th, yes. Now, one second, I'll find her. Amendment 13, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u102	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The reporter here is talking about the black market, and I want to talk about black hands and faces from the work of peasants that today, you're saying that 10 million. More than 5 are processed in singles. But go see how they live, and they grow agricultural produce. By the way, when it comes to species of livestock, it is they who are giving the most effective organic milk today. These are the one-man shops, today the one-man plants grow potatoes, beets, and think about where to sell them, because the state does not support their preservation of the building’s orchards, just the one-man shops. You don't count their land, you see what they're living for -- the pension you're offering 1,000 934 bracelets, 80 bracelets raised from December 1st, and food grew. You have power, and we support you when you create new jobs and conditions for the village, but, I'm sorry, the social sphere in the village is supported by just one-persons and small-scale farmers who help in winter to cover the road and those who ask for help. Dear colleagues, remember! The villagers are 30 percent of the population of our country, they're waiting for support. These are the people they were hoping for, on the ground, and you decided to tax them. Ask them how they live there, what conditions, social spheres, and so forth. Who's talking to them? Some people live here great, but not all. A major crowd of people today are waiting for support. Please correct to put on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, 13th Amendment, that's it. Excuse me, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u104	Once again, the person who registered agriculture is entitled to a grant of 5,000 dollars per hectare, 5,000 dollars per cow, 36,000 dollars per year for accounting, but 36,000 dollars per year. In addition, the only social contribution is paid by the State and 50 percent of the benefits are provided under this law. Why do you not love people so much by forcing them to work in the dark? For what? Why is it more important for you to buy this grain for nothing and then resell it abroad without a return on the exchange, depriving the state of $2 billion of GDP per year? Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, 13 amendments to the authorship of National Deputy Timoshenko and other colleagues of the Fatherland faction. She's been rejected by the committee. You've heard an argument from both sides. So please identify and vote. [[11:31:11]] For-103 The decision is not accepted, the amendment is rejected. Next amendment. 20th Amendment, Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u106	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. We know that this bill is widely accepted in society for several months. There's a pros and cons objectively. Any tax bill would've taken it that way. We realize that the price of this question, well, about as much as we have VAT per year going on in the state, I don't know how much VAT is going on right now. The price of the question is 25 billion dollars. That's a lot of money, we understand that it's about taxing the big business, taxing the nadrs, destroying the corruption benefits that have accumulated in the Tax Code for decades. So, of course, this bill also has positive sides that we can't ignore. As for the 20 amendments, we propose to exclude the law, which proposes that the monitoring authorities be given the right to require any information from taxpayers or other subjects of information relations, virtually from the unlimited right of the circle of issues. In fact, a taxpayer would not even need to have any real evidence of any wrongdoing on the part of the taxpayer of existing legislation. And to ask for information, the controlling authorities will only have enough suspicions that give them too wide discretionary powers and can be used for pressure on business. So let's not go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Please support this amendment number 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u107	Thank you. Committee position, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u108	The committee's proposing a rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 20th Amendment of the Batenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. In view of that, I ask you to identify and vote. [[11:33:21]] For 118 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 21. National MP Ironborn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u110	Let's do it in form first, then essentially. Danilo Alexandrovich, I was just saying that the norm was off, that's when we're talking about the normal work of the committee. Second, I have a request from all members of the committee, please don't shout from the rostrum. First of all, you're scaring Motovilovt, he's already moved from the front row, second of all, you still have a committee to lead today. Now it's about substance. This amendment, which we've been discussing for a long time, especially considering that a large number of observations were about the so-called administration of taxes, that is, how tax work relates to the taxpayer. And that's just the scary word that "may" and "witnesses." I'll explain to all my colleagues. Now that we have a tax petition to the taxpayer, she might ask about facts that indicate a violation. And that's normal, then the taxpayer does his job and asks for information on a reasonable basis. Now they want to add the only word "may testify" that allows the taxpayer to turn to the taxpayer for any reason, because he seems to be able to testify to some of the facts of the violation. And after he gets that request and the answer, the main thing, on that request, is the tax on the information can come with a check. What tax check is and how many days does it stop the business, and in general how effective they are, I think everyone knows. If you need arguments, this year's biggest record number of complaints to the business office was tax and tax-related. That's why I'm proposing to leave the status quo and leave the possibility to ask the tax only the information in which it's confident and not to come to the tax payer with a check. Please put this right to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u111	Committee position of 21 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u112	Dear colleague, your proposal contains a logical error. If the taxpayer knows for sure about the offender’s wrongdoing, why ask her questions? She doesn't need any questions. That is why we are talking about the fact that if circumstances can bear witness to certain wrongdoings, then the tax collector may make that request. Because you can't prove a crime first and then question a criminal, just as there is, by analogy with tax offences, a way of proving a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 21st Amendment. You've heard the argument of the parties. She was rejected by the committee, the committee explained why. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please identify yourself and vote. [[11:36:41]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 22. Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u114	Respectful Ukrainians, nervous behavior, and inadequate comments from the committee testify to the issues and standards of the draft law. In fact, there are a few blocks in this bill that should go into the hall in the form of separate draft laws. This is a matter of land tax and of administration and new regulations on excise goods. Everything else, as the committee has now proposed, whether it's the government, or the President's Office, which is mixed into a bunch, does not allow us to separate the useful standards from those that are harmful to the whole economy and business. So all the amendments, the five amendments to "European Solidarity," are exactly the amendments that we're going to be presenting from business. We did a business survey, and it's business asking them to support it. This is true of 22 amendments. The professor has just said that this rule, which has existed since the existence of the Tax Code, is the basis for asking the tax authority to provide information, is such that it distorts some cooperation between the taxpayer and the payer. Sorry, the tax payer was at least protected that not from any question that the tax authority thought might be concerned about, could be asked to provide information. How people who actually worked in business know that this is the biggest problem, these are the questions that come from the tax authority. In this number, they need to prepare documents that need to be kept separate. I don't know how you've dealt with associations that you think you do respect, but that's what the whole business is up against. You're making business worse with a controlling authority and you're not adding new opportunities for business and for people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u115	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u116	Thank you, dear colleague. I'm not going to answer with a hammock. I'm essentially going to answer you. If you read the right column of the table, you'll see in it that we've specifically introduced a safety net, the limitations as a payer's permission do not respond to the controlling authority's request, if it's repeated and if the relevant documents have been submitted before. We believe that, on the one hand, the controlling authority should have the right to information, on the other hand, should not abuse it. And we found this balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, the 22nd Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina The committee rejected it, you heard the argument, so please identify and vote. [[11:40:04]] For 113 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 28. Please, who's it going to be? I've got Labazuk on file or Batenko, who? Labazuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the amendment proposes not to introduce into legislation the possibility of temporary banning the transfer abroad of a tax payer’s principal with unpaid tax debt. Why? According to article 20 of the Tax Code, the law enforcement authorities have the opportunity to turn themselves in and arrest property, the costs and other values of a payer who is a legal person, and the debt is taxed. This is a mechanism that really allows the interests of the state to be maintained, but rather than restricting the leadership's exit, or the hired person, it will not only help, and it will create a precedent that will contribute to the non-investment in Ukraine. So please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u119	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u120	Nevertheless, I would like to explain my position on limiting the removal of the debtor’s manager abroad. Four fuses. First. This is a tax debt, not a tax liability. That is, it's either a debt that's on trial, or a debt that's not on trial, and it's on credit. The other one. The debt has not been paid 240 days, 240 days. Third. A million dollars in debt. Four. This decision is not tax-free; it is a decision taken by the court. This is the debtor, the debtor has to pay off his debts, the more public debts, because you know that there is a similar mechanism to private debts. So I think we have to protect a good taxpayer, and the debtor has to pay off the debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u121	28 Amendment of the national deputies of Labazuk, Batenka, and colleagues It's rejected by the committee, you've heard the argument. So please, your honors, identify and vote. [[11:42:42]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 33, if I'm not mistaken. Let me see, just a second. 33rd, please, Ironman.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I think that this story, when we ban someone from going abroad because of their tax debt, it smells like North Korea somewhere compared to Belarus. But if there is such an unrestrained desire to do such a stupid thing, my correction corrects the most obvious flaws of this standard. I'll explain. The first part is about banning foreigners from going out. We had at least a meeting with the American Chamber of Commerce, the European Business Association and their fears, and I remember this discussion on a committee that even for foreigners, i.e. for expats who come here on a contract, will not be able to work for an international company, if there is a tax debt, and there are international companies, they will not be able to return home. We'll hold them hostage as a state. That's why the first part of my bill is about putting foreigners out of the way. The second part, and it's probably not me, but at least the representatives of the Economic Committee, but rather the Ministry of Economic Policy, it's State-owned enterprises. We have about 3,000 state-owned enterprises. Thousands of them are, well, less than alive, at least on paper. Most, the total majority of them have a tax debt. How fast do you think you'll find the CEO of the company on. is the director of the competition or not at all, at any rate, if you are immediately assigned to a position from which no country can go, except Ukraine? I understand that we want to have Ukraine, but let's not do it because of our tax standards. And that's why the second part refers to the removal from state-owned enterprises. Thank you. And I'm going to ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, here, on the one hand, the argument may be partly accepted. On the other hand, we cannot introduce different standards, different standards, for public and private enterprises. That is why we disagreed with that offer. Foreigners. It is the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Departure from Ukraine and the Entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian Citizens that is extended only to Ukrainian citizens. That's why the norm is so meaningful. And we ask her to leave it to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, the 33rd Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Ironborn. The committee turned her down. You heard the argument. So please vote. [[11:46:04]] For 105 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 34. Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u126	Once again, all the amendments are purely amendments that all business, all associations, insists on. Look who you're working against. Against the entire economy of Ukraine. Now, about this block about saving the taxpayer's money. This is a continuation of the limitations on the possibility of going abroad to the head of an enterprise, including the state. Do you know, dear Ukrainians, that 95 percent of taxes are paid voluntarily, on their own, and there is absolutely no impact on increasing the tax authorities' ability to meet these taxes to the state budget? And what does this authority do now? This authority proposes in those years when, for example, in the 20th year, in the first half of the year, operators have suffered enormous damage and have no operating expenses to pay taxes at the proper time, they now offer such a standard to cheat without a court decision an undisputedly agreed tax debt, i.e. they are declared tax liabilities, without limitation of the amount. Such writings used to apply only to those with a huge debt of more than 5 million dollars. Now this rule will apply to small, small, medium-sized businesses, namely, those most affected by the lack of operating costs. Maybe this rule would have to be considered in the future when the economy would be on at least the same tracks or on the same level that it was before, but not today. You're going to be out of business anyway. And the write-off of the accounts is undeniable, without a decision of the court, there will also be your conscience. You're going to add chaos to small and medium-sized business, and that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u127	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u128	I would like to thank the honorary college for the fact that this rule actually appeared in the Tax Code for its cadence, for the last cadence of the Supreme Council. And really, we're changing it a little bit. Why do we change it, and why do we feel that this position is right? Because if the taxpayer has declared the amount of the tax liability on his own and failed to pay it in 90 days (very important – 90 days), what should be the subject of the appeal of the controlling authority to such a payer? That the controlling authority should prove in court if the payer himself has accepted an appropriate debt. So this standard is absolutely right. And I want to point out that today's debt is 102 billion dollars. It's the debtors and it's the teachers' money, the medics' money, the pensioners' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, the 34th Amendment of the National MP of Jujanina. The committee suggests that you reject it, you've heard the argument. Please vote. [[11:49:42]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Let's move on. Next amendment to 44th. 44 amendment, one second, by Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u130	Colleagues, we go back to the excellent bill of 5,600. You know, some of the norms, they're very similar to this famous phrase, so that the cow gives more milk it needs to be fed less and milked more. That's the same standard. It's very simple to explain. We have a tax position, it's now accepted, it's used, that if you build a conditional factory, put in money, first year got the damage, second year got the damage, and only on friction started to get the profit, you can take the damage that you've suffered in the past year. It's not just done, it's not a ghost, it's made for investment. And by the way, it works in many countries around the world, and it's kind of good with the economy. What was proposed in Bill 5600? I admit that the committee has at least approached adequately and has somehow softened the position. These are the ratios of this investment over the past few years -- only 50 percent. In fact, we're now choosing a path for the country or we want people to invest, build, I don't know, create jobs, investment babysitters tend, create industrial parks that promise us, or on the other hand, we'll just collect more taxes. And it's in this case that we're definitely going to suckle the cow and feed it less. My norm and my offer are just about to remove this know-how and leave it as it is. Can taxpayers abuse it? Yeah, they'll probably be able to. But that is why we would like to see the normal work of the Economic Security Bureau investigating such cases. And certainly not all entrepreneurs and decent ones need to be brought under the same denominator. So I suggest we support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, the 44th Amendment of the Iron People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please identify and vote. [[11:52:23]] For 109 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 45. National MP, Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u132	I want to explain to my colleagues who did not support my previous, our previous amendment. Imagine, the company has declared 100,000 taxes, it doesn't pay 90 days. Why doesn't he pay? So he doesn't have the money. But when the money comes in, it will pay a fine of 25 percent, or 50 percent, depending on how much the payment has been delayed, and a penny each day at the size of the NBA’s account rate. The state did not lose anything in this case. You've accepted a standard, you've supported a standard that now allows tax payers to be manipulated. Now they're not going to show off their liabilities -- 100,000, but they're going to show -- 10 because the tax will not come to check, and they're going to avoid paying both fines and pennies. And you turn them right into misreporting, you run them back into the shadows. With regard to this amendment. Does the head of the committee and others who are about to vote for the 45th amendment, which in the 21st year, in the first half of the year, the large taxpayers of the standard, and their 1st thousand and 341, have suffered losses of 77 billion. Let's say it's 140 billion in a year. You deprive these payers of 14 billion circulation costs, taking away the opportunity to reflect the financial result in fact. And after that, you want investors to come here? And why are you then "invested" in Ukraine, if you're from such large businesses, next year in 2021 you won't be able to show 50 percent of the damage. And that means they're going to pay an extra 14 billion dollars in revenue. That's the truth. The lie you hear from Mr. Getmantsev, just think of it as a mistreatment of Ukraine's business.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u133	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u134	Quotes of great men. Thank you. See, in fact, the tax is generated from income and never pays taxes if the company is a tax collector. That's up to the last question. That's the question. We have businesses in the country that have experienced such currency differences as a result of several crises. And thanks to these currency differences, large businesses will never pay taxes at all, generally. They're 10 years old, 20 years old, because they're crazy money. We're talking about how you can use this damage before exhaustion, but only 50 percent a year. I don't want to shock the pro-European parties, but in Portugal, in Turkey, in Slovakia, Poland, China, Greece in general forgive the damage to businesses for more than five years, they just cheat. So let's be civilized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u135	45 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina The committee turned her down. You heard the committee's position. So please identify and vote. [[11:55:59]] For 114 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 49. Please, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, I understand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u136	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, dear people of Ukraine! In the course of which I have decided to accept 5600 as an oligarch by this legislative act, this is a Ukrainian peasant who wants to tax more than 10 billion dollars. And there was a one - person who processes more than 5 million Ukrainian lands. Yes, dear fellows, it is that one-person statistics 90 percent grow beef, that one-person statistics 90 percent, and that one produces and produces more vegetables, fruits, and potatoes. By the way, potatoes, think about it, Ukraine started importing from Egypt, Moldova, Romania this year, and a peasant can't sell potatoes at a price of five dollars per kilogram. This should be taken care of by the authorities. Next thing. When we talk about supporting the village, see what this bill says about taxing birds. You get them out of the fourth group of simplified systems, and in the same way you put them in the shade, and you force them to trim these farms, and you force them to raise the price of agricultural production. We think we need to talk about statistical analysis of everything that is going on in agriculture and support those who are today singles. And the law applies to ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 49 amendments, she's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:33]] For 104 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 53, and it's going to be final, and I think we can only report it. 53 revisions of the authorship, please, Ducky, I have a record. Will there be someone? With the Kachnych. 53rd. Please, Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u138	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! Today, the entire civilized world is taking protective measures to support its national economies, national manufacturers, and to protect jobs in their countries. They provide credits, extra incentives, and tax benefits to protect people in their countries. What is happening in our country? Today in this room we are offered a unique path, a green road to total poverty, unemployment, debt on wages, the destruction of national production and the creation of conditions for our economy to go to the shadows. Today, more than 40 percent of the Ukrainian economy is already working in the shadows, and now you're proposing that the whole economy work in the shadows with your "genial" initiatives. This bill violates the Constitution of Ukraine and first of all it violates any economic common sense. Unfortunately, you are now proposing and pushing the country into a total economic crisis. "The Opposition Platform for Life" does not explicitly support Bill 5600 and will not vote for it. But we urge our House of Parliament not to vote in favour of this anti-social and constitutional bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, 12:01, we can no longer vote, so we will vote after recess. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, we continue to consider matters of the order of the day. I want to remind you that we're done talking about 53 amendments. The only reason we didn't make the decision was because it was lunchtime. So, your honorary colleagues, 53 amendments, it's rejected by the committee, and you've heard the argument about this amendment. So, your honors, I ask you to identify yourself and vote. [[12:32:32]] For-45 The decision is not taken. The following amendment 54. 54 Amendment, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, this will be the last of my papers. It basically matches the previous one, so I'm not going to focus on the fact that I think we're going to see the potential of the hall. And so for the last two minutes of this bill, I'm going to be speaking, and I'm not going to hold our colleagues back. What's the problem with 5,600? At first it was introduced, remember how an anti - oligarchic bill, which was intended, if I am not mistaken, to produce 60 billion or 65 billion. Then, after some government work, the amount went down. The last thing we've heard is 25 billion, and I think it's going to be smaller. This bill, which violates one of the basic principles, is the predictability of tax legislation. You know, our parliament has done a lot of stupid things, but what we could be proud of, and what really made us different from the previous ones, is that we've never made tax changes under the tree. We've always done this in six months, as tax law stipulates. And that's good, because both entrepreneurs and citizens and the same taxpayers could prepare in advance. And each of us was a witness when we made mistakes in tax legislation and then in the six months we corrected them. Today, if this law is passed, the main principle will be violated – the predictability of tax legislation. We can talk as much as we want, whether we need an exit ban or not, whether we need to raise certain rates or not, or whether we need to increase the environmental tax, but exactly what we need to agree on is that we want more jobs, more entrepreneurs in the country, and more growth in the economy. And that's what legislation is supposed to do. I would very much hate for this law to become a precedent today when the Council amends the Tax Code under the tree, and we will not vote for it, the Voice faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u142	I understand that there is no need to comment or comment. That's 54 revisions. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next amendment is 56 authorship, second, 56th, Dubinsky. No, yes, thank you. 56th, not necessarily. 72 revisions. Now, one second, who do we have? 72 amendment, National Deputy Royal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I'd like to return to the session room. Today it is by no means possible to adopt this bill, a bill that will destroy Ukraine's final economy. The whole world today supports its national manufacturers, supports and protects people today. What's going on in us? We've got this green road leading the country to a stalemate, because now the country's largest wage debt in the country, today the highest unemployment rate, today more than 40 percent of the country's economy is working in the shadows. And instead of breaking this cycle of unpaid wages to set normal social standards in the country and pay people their earned pensions, instead you continue to experiment, experiment on farmers, on national producers, on those people who are protecting the country today and are the real economic patriots of our nation. So our team will vote against this bill. And we're talking to you. Surprisingly, this is no longer an issue, which is what our country will be tomorrow -- either a beggar country or a country that can protect jobs today and protect the country's economy. So we have one way with you: either create a really anti-crisis plan and support the economy today, or vote in favour of this bill and get out of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u144	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u145	Dear colleague, you speak correctly, but it's not really the case with this bill. This is the bill that creates a level playing field and taxation for business, for business, for business, for business: big business, first of all, which had corrupt, political corruption benefits, middle business, small business, so that everyone knows the level of transparent rules for doing their job, and the state is collecting taxes from that shadow economy that you care about so much when you talk about pensioners, teachers and doctors. So without population, let's look at the figures, as you say, we have led to the business killing of the country, when this year we have exceeded GDP in the dollar by 2013, the first time since 2013 and per capita we have also exceeded GDP when the number of individuals entrepreneurs is increasing and when the economy starts after.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, the 72th Amendment of the Royal People's Deputy. It's rejected by the committee, you've heard the argument of the parties. Please identify and vote. [[12:39:07]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Next item is 78 author. Please, if I'm not mistaken, Ducky should be speaking, right? Please, National Deputy Kaczyny, 78th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u147	Alexander Kaczyny, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear colleagues, today we see that we have sports masters today "servants" how to select, how to take, how to do everything to get the last money that our Ukrainians have today to their budget, to their budget, because it's not a national budget, it's the "ministers of the people" budget, which they then distribute as they need. I say in my amendment, chief, honourable colleagues, let's go back to the people. And my amendment says that we are proposing today that 20 percent of VAT on goods, jobs and services, except for alcohol sold to socially vulnerable populations, be withdrawn. This is especially relevant at cloudy energy prices. The Constitution states that Ukraine is a social state, and 20 percent of VAT from citizens who receive less real subsistence minimum income is a population genocide, especially when the size of the real subsistence minimum is higher than what the state sets and makes it a basic indicator for the minimum pension. Dear colleagues, have we seen everything in this country, how much can we abuse the Ukrainians? Thank you for your attention. Please put my amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u148	I'm betting on the 78th amendment of the Kacny people's MP. The committee proposes to reject it. Dear colleagues, please identify and vote. [[12:41:18]] For-89 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 81. Please, Labazuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, please pay attention to this amendment, especially to the major MPs. What is proposed? The bill proposes transferring the status of excise tax payer from the subject to retail sales of tobacco products to manufacturers and importers. What does this give us? In the community, it is strongly against this standard. There's a few reasons. First. It is not clear how the new mechanism under Bill 5719 will work, where administration will be carried out manually and once a month, or perhaps for several months. First. Crowds will lose their daily excise credits and await these unclear monthly distributions. That's the first one. New income formulas for local budgets are complex and opaque. Even after the 5719 vote, the fiscal service still cannot tell us how much it receives. Thus, it is not possible to plan for the community’s coming, but it is also a matter of cost. The City Association, the mayors, our regional colleagues are all definitely against excise changes in 5,600. We are proposing to change the active mechanism that has proven itself to be quite well today and to replace it with something that is not understandable. So who's going to be responsible if our communities in major districts don't get their income? Therefore, the proposal to support the amendment is not to change the mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u150	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this active mechanism leads to local, local budgets alone do not get half the excise tax – a local excise tax of 5 percent on tobacco products. Only the administration of this tax is proposed to transfer to manufacturers and importers. But this tax is saved by local authorities, thereby increasing the income. This issue was discussed with the Association of Cities. There is an appropriate bill that we have already voted on in the first reading to amend the Budget Code on the automatic fragmentation of this payment. Thus, it is this standard that protects the interests of local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, 81 amendments to the national MP Labazuk and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. The position of the committee and the reasons you've heard, so please identify and vote. [[12:44:29]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 100. Wait a minute, I'll find her. A hundred repairs. Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, and here is an example of how the state is always telling lies, is not following the word, and when we met business in Federation and other associations, everyone talked about one thing: how you could invest money in Ukraine when you sign a memorandum between the industry and the government changes. And when the memorandum was signed, it was in Mariupoli in the 19th year with both the Prime Minister and the President who promised to support the industry and take a course for the dijitalization of Ukraine. What's in this amendment? In general, the project envisaged an indexation of 5 percent of the rent for the use of radio frequency. The authorities did not hear about the effect that this would have on the increase in the prices of communications services, but they did not care about what the result would be. But when we talk about this tax extra burden, it takes 102 million dollars a year from operators who do all their obligations in a memorandum, and that 102 million dollars a year would be enough to build 150 base mobile stations in remote villages and on highways, which they made a commitment in a memorandum. The authorities are absolutely equal. By stealing billions, tens of billions of dollars from the state budget for a variety of purposes that are not justified, unconfirmed, and for which we offer the TSC to figure out, I mean both the roads and the hedge fund, they just play against themselves and against the whole population. 102 million dollars is that for you? That's a penny for you, for this authority. And for the sector, it's an opportunity to build.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u154	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u155	I'm very happy that 100 million is not a cost to you. We appreciate every penny that's in the budget. It's about this particular standard. We are fully in line with the signed memoranda of commerce to ensure consistent and predictable tax policy, which means that the cost of using a radio frequency resource is indexed into five, only five percent of the inflation last year. If we don't index this rent, it's going to be reduced. And the obligation to reduce any sector's taxation, the more the sector that is the telecommunications sector, no one has taken over. And this is a crime against our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 100th Amendment of the National Deputy of South Carolina. She's been rejected by the committee, you've heard the argument. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:20]] For 105 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 118. Now, just a second. 118 amendment, Kulinich. Please. Oh, no? A kiss, right? No, someone's asking. 118th. Who will be. You don't insist, do you? Okay. Thank you. 118th. Don't insist. 119 amendment. Please, Kucher.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to support the 119, which has been signed by a very large number of national deputies. The purpose of this amendment is not to disrupt the integrity of the sector, nor to introduce different taxation systems for the various areas of agriculture. What does this read mean? The edit means that without violating the tax system that is, to leave the birds on the fourth group of taxation. At the same time, 50 percent, or 50 percent, increase the rate of the only tax of the fourth group on lands where poultry factories are located. If, according to the Ministry of Finance's accounts, they were going to get one sum, this sum would be exactly three times the amount the Ministry of Finance is planning. And at the same time, we don't disrupt the whole sector. We don't force one sector to pay taxes to the state budget, another to pay taxes to the local budget. In addition, this amendment. Local budgets will increase considerably. After all, the fourth group’s tax is paid only in local budgets. Income tax is paid in the State budget. There's going to be a threefold increase in revenue compared to what Minfin planned. And I think it's going to have a pretty serious impact on the local budgets being replenished. Because the fourth group is primarily the development of local budgets, the development of rural areas. So I'm asking all of you to support this amendment. Because it will not only strengthen the APC’s position, but it will also increase the local budget position, and it will increase the income of those companies many times where the bird factories are located. I'm asking you to support Amendment 119.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'll put it to a vote of 119. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that scream? Dear colleagues, 119th Amendment. You heard the argument. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. [[12:51:37]] For 295 Decision taken. Correction counted. All right, let's move on. The next 124 is an amendment. Now I'm going to find out who the author is. 124 Amendment to the Authorship of the South Nina of Petrovna Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u159	Please turn around. Why did you include it in advance? Dear colleagues, I am now addressing all sectors of the economy, large taxpayers, mobile operators and others. You hear and you see that this authority is creating with you, explaining that you're going to get some extra revenue. I would like this authority to really learn to count every penny and not to be scattered by billions, 100 billion, 15 billion -- it means absolutely nothing to this authority. So first of all, you have to evaluate the actions and the committee, and as for the consideration of the amendments, the lie that's coming out of the Supreme Council's rostrum. As far as I'm concerned, 124. Please tell me, I've tried on the committee to propose at least one rule for getting out of the shadow of the entire sectors of the economy: renting housing. Now, if you take the materials of Mine and Mineconomy, they say that the 80-90 percent real estate rental market is in the shade. What must be done to make sure that they pay taxes and do not be afraid to make a deal for rents? This requires a reduction in the tax rate. Because it's not equal between taxpayers, it's 18 percent for individuals, it's 5 percent for entrepreneurs in the third group. But the vast majority of the population do not want to register as an entrepreneur because it is not an entrepreneurial activity. And so I suggested setting a 5 percent rate for all renters in a person's lease, just like it's not entrepreneurship, it's a passive kind of income. I don't change anything in the taxation system, using common sense and understanding that it can add up to 3 billion dollars a year to the budget, and people will.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u160	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u161	We've come to the conclusion of the Ministry of Finance that this amendment will result in the loss of a government budget of 1.5 billion dollars. And, of course, we would like to give you a lower tax rate for everyone, not just for renting housing, but for teachers, and for doctors, and for any other of our fellow citizens. But we need to be responsible for public finances, accountable to every penny of the government budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, 124 amendments made by the national deputy of Jujanina She's been rejected by the committee. You have heard the argument of the parties, so please vote. [[12:55:04]] For 121 The decision is not taken. Next line is 130. Now, for a second, 130 revisions to the authorship of Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko and Cimbaluk. Mikhail Mikhailovich, please, Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u163	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, by this bill, authors on behalf of the authorities are doing everything they can to make food in the state grow, because the load goes exactly to what we have already said, which they process and have owned or leased more than 5 million agricultural lands. Today, Ukraine is a leader in grain and oil exports. Sorry, oil in Ukraine is more expensive than in the European Union. I wonder why? And this bill will make them raise even higher prices for the Ukrainian consumer, they'll go up for anything. This bill exerts pressure on those who have taken a high risk and build a greenhouse in Ukraine and grow vegetables there. By the way, Ukraine did for the first time this year what it hasn't done in years, buying cucumbers that are warm in Russia. That's how it was supposed to be. So this is called support for the agricultural sector? Next thing. When we talk about completing the state budget, analyze that most 5,600 will concentrate from place to place in the state budget and then manage it as they see fit. Perhaps the Ministry of Finance and the authors of this bill have not analyzed, but what will grow in the consumer basket and the so-called Borsten set after the adoption, don't give a god, this bill will grow almost everything. And whether or not the peasant will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the 130th Amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko, Tsimbaluka, and colleagues She's been rejected by the committee. So please identify and vote. [[12:57:53]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 132. 132. Amendment of the authorship of the People's Deputy Kucher. National MP Kutcher, 132nd, don't you insist? Don't insist. 136 revisions. 136 revisions. Now, just a second. 136. Amendment of the people's representative of Gnatenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u165	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In general, it is a very shameful law that will destroy small and medium - size farming. As far as we're concerned. It is suggested that the article 200 primes be completed. by a new paragraph. This amendment is related to a previous amendment, and we have been hearing for two years about kidnapping and tax evasion, a fictitious VAT, and billions of stolen VAT damages. And members of Parliament's TSC have repeatedly reviewed the algorithm of the server's work, eliminated one of the channels of VAT theft. Friends, remember, practically the entire process of taxpayers and taxpayers, which is implemented exclusively in digital form and processed on servers that administer and protect the tax administration itself from cyber threats. We believe that with such squabbles that have not diminished over the years, taxation has lost its right to be the sole manager of this information that is on their media today. Because it is suggested that the tax administration and its servers should be subject to State control. Of course, tax will allow you to use this database, but you will not be able to interfere with the server's work to adjust the indicators that are there today. Therefore, it is suggested that this arrangement be considered and supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u166	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u167	We're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 136 amendments made by the national deputy of Kacny and colleagues She's been rejected by the committee, the committee continues to insist on her position. You heard the author's argument. So please identify and vote. [[13:00:51]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 137. Please, National Deputy Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u169	Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u170	Please, Deputy Kaczyny. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u171	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, I go back to the main question: What does this law give to the Ukrainian people? And you and I have only one answer: take it all away, make everyone here who can't even pay for utilities today, and then buy everyone in the election for Greece. So, dear fellows, I want to go back to the people and say that Amendment 10378, it says that 1.5 percent of the military congregation that said eight years ago it was good. It's a new tax, you could say, which was introduced for us to have a reform of the Ukrainian army. For eight years, the army is reformed, 1.5 percent of them are retired, practically not in the Constitution, in the laws of Ukraine. So, dear colleagues, our proposal, is to remove 1.5 percent of the military congregation from the Ukrainians. Eight years of army reform, tell me, where did these millions of dollars that you took from us today, 100 billion dollars? Where did they go, where are they now, and who today will be in charge of army reform for eight years?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u172	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u173	We're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u174	Thank you. 137. Amendments of the national MP of Kacny, the Royal and other colleagues. It's rejected by the committee. You heard the argument. So please identify and vote. [[13:03:07]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, two adjustments remain to be made. 146th next, 146th. Now, authorship 146 is amended. 146th, please, Labazuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, this is very important to the agrarians. We're actually going to correct this problem over the years. At present, there is a problem that requires the tax system to clearly indicate the location of the fuel storage site. However, agrarians may not always say a clear place, why? Because very often their storage sites are located in fields for convenient use. Under such conditions, agrarians are deliberately forced to state false information that in turn leads to tax authorities leaving, establishing false facts, and fined hundreds of thousands of dollars. Therefore, this amendment proposes to exclude the obligation to specify the address, and the location of storage capacity for those who use fuel solely for their own needs should be emphasized. So we're just going to remove the corruption component that's pressing on the agrarians. The working aspects of such changes have already been worked out with Minagro, Minfin, DPS, and representatives of professional associations. Everyone approved the proposal, and the DPS does not deny that the agrarians do not specify the address, but the cadastral number of the location of the fuel at a certain time interval rather than a clear address. So we ask you to support the amendment and remove the corruption component that presses on the agrarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u176	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u177	In fact, the amendment is something else. Amendments to avoid extending the grounds for revocation of the licence for establishing the absence of a host subject at the location and/or location of his/her activities. We're definitely against that, so we're asking you to say no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u178	Thank you. 146. Amendment of the People's Deputy of Labazuk and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. You heard the argument. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:01]] For-92 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment in part, those that are rejected by the committee, is 148 amendments. National Deputy Labazük, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u179	Unfortunately, our work today is not supported, even though it is the right thing to do. And another amendment that I'm going to propose is an amendment that's being proposed and supported by entrepreneurs. The bill proposes to exclude the proposal from Bill 5600, which amends paragraph 12 of the Act on the Use of Accountants that do not meet the purpose of the bill, since they do not affect the sustainability of budgetary revenues, but only destroy the effectiveness of FOP reporting. Such changes in the amount of additional tariffs actually make the calculation system uncomplicated, which is contrary to the principles laid down in the simplified taxation system of natural persons. So please support this revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 148 amendments, she's rejected by the committee, she's put to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:32]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've been overturned. My colleagues and I received three letters to the Presidency regarding the list of amendments to be made. Please give us a list. Guys, let's go in the order we have. Dear colleagues, a letter came from Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko to amend: 2, 5, 7, 9, 11, 12, 14, 19, 23, 27, 30, 43, 46, 47, 48, 55, 58, 59, 70, 73, 80, 92, 93, 122, 129, 140, 142, 152, 157, 159. Julia Volodymyrna asks for 10 minutes, and then we'll put all of these amendments to confirm. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u181	Dear friends, we're going to talk to you today about the fundamental Law of 5600. The point is that all the positions in this law are completely, starting with a rise in taxes, a crazed increase in the influence of tax administrations and other control bodies, already killing to the death of the middle class, destruction including medium and large business. I want to say that everything that's laid down in this law is strictly contradicting the European Commission's communiqué, which is signed and published (I'm going to show it in my hands), which says that during the coronavirus and the energy crisis, taxes should be reduced, the pressure of the controlling authorities should be reduced, direct support from the budgets of all levels of the host subjects. In fact, I would say this: Ukraine is acting strangely because it adopts laws illogically, not as it adopts the whole world, but adopts laws in the face of total sanity. It's very sad. In order to get started, and you realize that these are not just my words, I want to start with the statement of the European Business Association, which is being addressed, this statement and the business association, to all the deputies. So in other words, it's not just the idea of the Fatherland faction that I represent, it's the idea of practically all the business that works in Ukraine. What we're talking about the European Business Association, I'm just quoting their words, "The European Business Association and the Association of Ukrainian Entrepreneurs are underlining the unacceptableness of this law. The bill does not take into account the position of entrepreneurs, ignores the principles of stability and predictability of public policy, and has a very negative impact on conscientious taxpayers. The business community refers to the Office of the President of Ukraine, the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and all the national MPs regarding the non-conformity of Parliament's consideration of Bill 5600. Now I would also like to read you a position that concerns the American Business Association, the Chamber of Commerce. I ask you to listen carefully, because, frankly, both the President and the government and the Parliament insist that the country needs investment. If the country needs investment, you have to listen to investors for a little bit. I'm going to read you a practical quote: "The American Chamber of Commerce calls on members of the Supreme Council not to vote in favour of Bill 5600 because its adoption violates the principle of tax stability and will also increase fiscal pressure on taxpayers. Experts from American Chamber of Commerce companies analysed the proposed changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code and considered the majority of the proposed changes unacceptable to the business community." And there's also a quote here that today is going to be a substitution of concepts, it's going to be a normal policy rule, it's going to be a substitution of notions, and unfortunately, it's going to be a normal policy. The fight against corruption was replaced by a war against business, and a fair approach to taxation was replaced by an increase in the tax burden. That's what official statements are. If you open up, dear friends, social networks, I want to say this separately for you, I want to quote the original language. Unfortunately, there is no way to translate what businessmen write on social media. The question is, "Sergia, write briefly what's most intense about 5,600, tomorrow morning in the Supreme Council it will be considered." Now the answer, attention, in the original language, is "Drakon's" taxes, plus limitless tax powers, which can indirectly calculate profit and stupidly count the tax as to how much it comes to. I know our tax breaks will be huge, and the raids on business will be incompatible with our lives. There is a rule that even if the dividends are not paid, the taxpayer can calculate and collect all taxes at his discretion.” Dear friends, this is what the business that voted for you says about you. And now I'd like to draw your attention to what is actually in this law and what is unacceptable absolutely. First of all, it's unacceptable. You know how difficult today are the agrarians, the small, microscopic ones that process their own pies. You know, land-farmers have now refused to sell their pies because they think they can still provide organic food, they can provide the necessary amount of food. But what does this law do? I want you to just think about whether you can act this way to essentially cut off the head of all the miserable farming that's in the country. Taxes are introduced, and this is the left - hand section of this law, just for the owners of agricultural crops, which are processed by themselves. You can imagine that once this tax is introduced, you're going to turn millions of people with land-based pies from small-scale producers into bankruptcys and you're going to destroy their existence, and if these people are destroyed, then our villages will be without people, because they won't be able to process any more. They're just being pushed out to sell land under any circumstances and thus bring to an end the so-called "destructive" agrarian reform. I would ask you, every deputy, when you press this button, please remember one of the famous Hollywood movies where every family that pushes a red button on a special device was given a million dollars. But then it was found that when the button was pressed, the family took a person’s life, automatically dying. I mean, from the buttons you push, you either give life to people, or you take it. And you can't live and work in parliament without realizing that your button is the life or elimination of entire spheres of the economy of Ukraine. And that's why I urge you all now, to whom there is not a single drop of conscience left in this room: please don't vote for this law. Let him be ruined today. And so this law is going to be removed and you're going to protect the investors of your own, the investors that come from the outside, your micro-farmers, the land-pile owners who process them themselves. You will protect the country from arbitrary taxation, which is given the right to be executed without trial, to confiscate property without trial, and to collect additional eye taxes without trial. What are you doing with the country? Today, in order to fill the budget for the poor 10 billion, you are willing to put everyone who earns a little more money and gives taxes to that country. Don't do this, I ask you very much on behalf of millions of people, from the American Chamber of Commerce, the European Business Association, from all of our agrarians and from myself. Parliament cannot be a murderer, it must give the country hope, not destroy the last. Do not vote in favour of this killing law for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u182	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna, we're going to bet all these amendments on confirmation, right? Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and your corrections. It's for confirmation, isn't it? Dear colleagues, while you're at your seats, Danilo Alexandrovich Getmantsev, please respond to these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, you have just heard another painting of the apocalypse that you and those or other nuances have heard about land reform and other decisions that we have made that were really unpopular but very necessary for the country. We really didn't come here to engage in populism, not to make popular decisions to the detriment of the state, as we did for 28 years. We are making important and necessary for business, for the country's change in order to make Ukraine finally a civilized European state, in order to earn teachers' salaries, to pay doctors' salaries to make pensions a European level, and for business to earn money, as it does in Europe. Thank you. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u184	Thank you. Danilo Alexanderovich, but first we have to support these amendments, right? I understand that the position of the committee on all amendments is to keep them in line, right? Dear colleagues, then, as we agreed. Julia Volodymyrna spoke for 10 minutes, and in turn we place on confirmation of the amendments made by Julia Volodymyrna. Dear colleagues, I'm putting amendment number two on confirmation. She's a committee member. Please vote. [[13:20:47]] For 275 The correction remains. Confirmed. Next 5 amendments. There's going to be 30 votes on Julia Volodymyrna's amendments, she's put in for confirmation. Dear colleagues, amendment number five, set by Julius Volodymyrna. The committee counted. In this regard, I ask you to vote. [[13:21:25]] For 279 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. Next amendment number 7. She's a committee member. Julia Volodymyrna puts her on the stand. Please vote. [[13:21:56]] For-286 Correction counted. Let's see the factions. Next amendment number nine. Amendment number nine. She's a committee member. Julia Volodymyrna puts her on the stand. Please vote. [[13:22:27]] For 280 Decision taken. Next Amendment 11. The committee's accounted for, too. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:22:52]] For 272 Decision taken. Next amendment number 12. She's also a member of the committee. Please vote. [[13:23:15]] For 272 Decision taken. Next amendment 14. The committee's accounted for, too. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:23:38]] For 284 Decision taken. Next amendment 19. The committee's accounted for, it's based on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:23:59]] For 271 Decision taken. The next 23 amendments. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:24:22]] For 284 Decision taken. 27 amendments. The committee is supported. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:24:45.]] For 273 Decision taken. 30 revisions. She's a committee member. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:25:08]] For 270. Decision taken. 43 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:25:30.]] For 272 Decision taken. 46 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:25:55]] For 271 Decision taken. 44 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. 47th, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, 47 amendments. 47th, she's on the committee's count, she's on confirmation. [[13:26:26]] For 267 Decision taken. 48 amendments. [[B in m in s a l in]] Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko puts the amendment on record. You should have listened. 48 amendments, it's supported by the committee, it's confirmed. Please vote. [[13:26:59]] For 275 Decision taken. The next amendment is 55. She looks to Julius Volodymyr Tymoshenko for confirmation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, because then I'll look for every correction. Do I get it right? 55 amendments are made; they are counted by the committee; they are treated by the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] My father, as far as I can tell, 55th. No, 55th Getmants. [[B in m in s a l in]] These are amendments that are considered, committee. The 55th amendment, it's considered by the committee, is based on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:27:56]] For 274 Decision taken. The next 58 amendments, taken into account by the committee, are valid for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:28:22]] For 268. Decision taken. 59 amendments, it's counted by the committee, it's confirmed. Please vote [[13:28:45]] For 271 Decision taken. The 70 amendments taken into account by the committee are confirmed. Please vote. [[13:29:08]] For 276 Decision taken. 73 The amendment, taken into account by the committee, is confirmed. Please vote. [[13:29:31]] For 271 Decision taken. The 80 amendments taken into account by the committee are valid for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:29:53]] For 270. Decision taken. 92 amendments, it's taken into account by the committee, it's supported. It's on confirmation. Please vote. 92th, please. [[13:30:17]] For 268. Decision taken. 93 amendments, the committee included. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:30:41]] For 272 Decision taken. 122 amendments taken into account by the committee are supported. Please vote. [[13:31:04]] For 269 Decision taken. 129 amendments, counted by the committee. Please vote. [[13:31:26]] For 269 Decision taken. 140 amendments, counted by the committee. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:31:49]] For 265 Decision taken. 142 amendment, counted by committee. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:32:11]] For 269 Decision taken. 152 amendments are included by the committee. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:32:33]] For 269 Decision taken. 157 amendments, counted by the committee. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:32:56]] For 273 Decision taken. And the ultimate amendment, the final one that was requested by Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, 159th. Puts the vote to the vote. The committee is accounted for. Please vote. [[13:33:22]] For 277 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next. A request was received from the Motovilovite national deputy. Motovlover first, yeah. Please, Motovilover.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u185	Please make an amendment for confirmation as appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u186	Thank you. Out of procedure, please, Gerasimov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u187	Ruslan Alexiyovich, the Rules of the Supreme Council clearly state that when we make amendments to confirmations, we go to repairs or factions, not to mention any letters. If you think you've played here, like, opposition, let's not forget, you're like cockroaches, hiding from the light and playing Ukrainian entrepreneurs and the Ukrainian people. And this, what you're doing here, you're already so afraid of this law, that you're afraid that the opposition will tell you that there's a real way in this law that you're killing peasants and shallow farmers. So I have a big request to go straight to the amendments that are taken into account, and the factions that raise their hand, they put them up for confirmation. Not by letters nobody knows about in this Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u188	Dear Arthur Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry, you've been in Parliament for so many years and you don't know that you can speak both orally and in writing. And the people's deputies realized their right to appeal to the presidency, and so we're going to follow those amendments that remained in order that was defined. Dear colleagues, next amendment number one. Let's vote 1st, and then I'll vote. Please, 1 minute, Iron Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u189	Dear Chairman, you're not the first to come up with this letter story, this is Pandora's box, which will come back to you very quickly. But I have a request from the people who prepared this bill. And I was preparing with the committee, and Nina Petrovna Yuzanin was preparing many others. Now you're going so fast on the amendments that it's not clear what we're voting for. And I think it's a general story for both those against the law and those behind. We can at least not rush into it because, indeed, some kind of amendment is about to be lost, and the Tax Code, unlike many laws, is exactly the case where a dot or a coma can kill an entire branch. So if you've decided to go so far that I don't support it, please give me time to at least find this in the table. Because we're putting so much emphasis on something that then we'll heroically fix all the halls somewhere in January "under the tree." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u190	Thank you. Now we're going to go according to Motovilovt's letter, he's got all the corrections in order, so you can get there and watch. Because first the letter from Julia Volodymyrna came, I sounded it, we voted, now except for the amendments that we have already voted on, we can't put them to a second vote, we can't go to another letter that came, step by step. The 1st amendment is put to the vote by the Motovilovac People's Deputy. Dear colleagues, have you found this amendment? It's counted by the committee. Please vote. [[13:37:09]] For 265 Correction counted. The 8th Amendment, Amendment 8, is taken into account by the committee, while the Motovilovite People's Deputy puts it on the stand. Please, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please vote. [[13:37:49]] For 274 Decision taken. The next amendment, number 10, is taken into account by the committee, while the Motovilovite National MP puts it on the stand. Please vote. [[13:38:18]] For 265 Decision taken. Next amendment 15. She's a committee member. At the same time, Motovílova’s national deputy asks for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:38:48]] For 274 Decision taken. Next amendment 16. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:39:12]] For 258. Decision taken. Next amendment 17. It's counted by the committee. At the same time, it looks at confirmation. Please vote. [[13:39:38]] For 267 Decision taken. Next amendment 18. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:40:02]] For 272 Decision taken. The following amendment 24. The committee is accounted for. Puts the vote to the vote. Please vote. [[13:40:25]] For 266 Decision taken. 25 revisions. The committee is accounted for. At the same time, it looks at confirmation. Please vote. [[13:40:50]] For 264 Decision taken. 26 amendments. The committee is accounted for. At the same time, it looks at confirmation. Please vote. [[13:41:12]] For 279 Decision taken. 29 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:41:34]] For 275 Decision taken. 31 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:41:56]] For 274 Decision taken. 32 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:42:34]] For 262 Decision taken. 35 revisions. The committee is accounted for. Please vote. [[13:42:57]] For 266 Decision taken. 36 amendments to the Committee are included. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:43:19]] For 270. Decision taken. 37 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:43:39]] For 263 Decision taken. 38 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's a vote, it's a vote, it's a confirmation. Please vote. [[13:44:00]] For 275 Decision taken. 39 amendments. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:44:21]] For 277 Decision taken. 40 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:44:45]] For 277 Decision taken. 41 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:45:09]] For 278 Decision taken. 42 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:45:30.]] For 266 Decision taken. 50 repairs. The committee is supported. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:45:53]] For 275 Decision taken. 51 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:46:17]] For 278 Decision taken. 52 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[1:46:42]] For 273 Decision taken. 57 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:47:04]] For 271 Decision taken. 60 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:47:25]] For 263 Decision taken. 61 revisions. The committee is accounted for. Becoming a national MP for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:47:49]] For 272 Decision taken. 62 revisions. She's a committee member. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:48:12]] For 269 Decision taken. 63 revisions. She's a committee member. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:48:35]] For 270. Decision taken. 64 amendment. She's a committee member. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:48:57]] For 273 Decision taken. 65 revisions. She's a committee member. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:49:19]] For 271 Decision taken. 66 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:49:39]] For 267 Decision taken. 67 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:50:02]] For 260 Decision taken. 68 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:50:24]] For 258. Decision taken. 69 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:50:46.]] For 266 Decision taken. 71 revisions. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:51:11]] For 266 Decision taken. 74 revisions. The committee is accounted for. One second, 72nd. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that, 72? Wait a second. We've already voted 74. She's in the mood right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, all right, guys, I'm reading what's coming first, and then you're gonna realize your rights. 74 revisions. [[B in m in s a l in]] 74 revisions. Puts the vote to the vote. It's counted by the committee. Please vote. 74th. [[13:52:13]] For 256 Decision taken. 75 revisions. It's counted by the committee. Puts the vote to the vote. Please vote. [[13:52:36]] For 254 Decision taken. 76 revisions. The committee is accounted for. Puts the vote to the vote. Please vote. [[13:53:01]] For 232 The next 77 is an amendment. She's a committee member. At the same time, Motovílova’s national deputy demands that it be put in place for confirmation. I'm betting this 77th amendment on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:53:33]] For 260 Decision taken. Seventy-nine amendments are counted by the committee. At the same time, Motovílovec’s national deputy wants to place it for confirmation. I'll bet you 79 of the amendment. Please vote. [[13:54:00]] For 267 Decision taken. 82 amendments, which are counted by the committee. At the same time, Motovílovec’s national deputy urges him to place it in his letter for confirmation. I'm betting on confirmation of 82 amendments. Please vote. [[13:54:29]] For 258. Decision taken. 83 amendments are the same situation. The committee is accounted for. At the same time, the Motovilovite MP asks for confirmation. Please vote. 83 revisions. [[13:54:54]] For 259. Decision taken. 84 amendments. She's a committee member. At the same time, the Motovilovite MP demands that it be put in place for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:55:18]] For 259. Decision taken. 85 amendments, it's counted by the committee. At the same time, the Motovilovite MP demands that it be put in place for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:55:44]] For 255 Decision taken. 86 amendments, it's counted by the committee. At the same time, the Motovilovite MP demands confirmation. Please vote. [[13:56:06]] For 256 Decision taken. 87 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[13:56:27]] For 262 Decision taken. 88 amendments. The committee is accounted for. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[13:56:48]] For 260 Decision taken. 89 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[13:57:09]] For 270. Decision taken. 90 revisions. She's a committee member. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[13:57:32]] For 272 Decision taken. 91 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The Motovilovite National Deputy requires confirmation. Please vote. [[13:57:55]] For 270. Decision taken. 94 revisions. She's a committee member. At the same time, the Motovlover requires confirmation. Please vote. [[13:58:21]] For 274 Decision taken. 95 revisions. She's a committee member. At the same time, Motovílova’s national deputy demands that it be put in place for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:58:43]] For 277 Decision taken. The next amendment is 96. She's a committee member. At the same time, the Motovilovite MP demands that it be put in place for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:59:07]] For 271 Decision taken. The 98th Committee counts. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[13:59:33]] For 259. Decision taken. 99 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[13:59:53]] For 259. Decision taken. 101 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The Motovilovite MP demands confirmation. Please vote. [[14:00:15]] For 265 Decision taken. 102 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The Motovlovec MP demands that the vote be put to the vote. For confirmation, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[14:00:38]] For 266 Decision taken. 103 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[14:01:00]] For 263 Decision taken. 104 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[14:01:20]] For 269 Decision taken. 105 revisions. It's counted by the committee. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[14:01:42]] For 267 Decision taken. 106 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[2:02:05]] For 258. Decision taken. 107 revisions. The committee is accounted for. [[B in m in s a l in]] The remote didn't work. Please note, the device that didn't work on the remote. 107 revisions. It's counted by the committee. The motorist requires that he place it for confirmation. Please vote. [[2:02:44]] For 261 Decision taken. 108 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. 108 revisions. [[14:03:08]] For 258. Decision taken. 109 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[14:03:30]] For 258. Decision taken. 110 revisions. It's counted by the committee. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[14:03:52]] For 256 Decision taken. 111 revisions. It's counted by the committee. The rider requires confirmation. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:04:15]] For 263 Decision taken. 112 amendments, it's taken into account by the committee. The motorist insists on putting it on the stand. Please vote. [[14:04:38]] For 255 Decision taken. The next amendment is 113. She's a committee member. The motorist says she's been put in for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:05:04]] For 257 Decision taken. 114 revisions. It's counted by the committee. The motorist insists on asking for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:05:27]] For 257 Decision taken. 115 revisions. It's counted by the committee. The motorist insists that it be confirmed. That's why I'm betting on the vote. Please vote. [[14:05:53]] For 257 Decision taken. 116 amendments, counted by the committee. The rider insists on confirming this amendment. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[14:06:16]] For 257 Decision taken. 117 amendments, counted by the committee. The Motovilovite National Deputy requires confirmation. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[14:06:39]] For 258. Decision taken. 120 amendments, accounted for by the committee. The motorist requires that it be put in place for confirmation. Please vote. [[2:07:01]] For 255 Decision taken. 121 amendments, it's counted by the committee. The rider requires confirmation. 121 amendments, please vote. [[14:07:27]] For 251 Decision taken. 123 amendments, it's counted by the committee. At the same time, the Motovlover requires confirmation. Please vote. [[2:07:55]] For 259. Decision taken. 125 amendments, accounted for by the committee. It's on. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[14:08:23]] For 257 Decision taken. 126 revisions. It's counted by the committee. At the same time, the Motovlover requires confirmation. Please vote. [[14:08:47]] For 257 Decision taken. 127 revisions. She's a committee member. At the same time, Motovílova’s national deputy requires confirmation. Please vote. [[14:09:10]] For 252 Decision taken. 128 revisions. It's counted by the committee. The Motovilovite National Deputy demands that it be put in place for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:09:33]] For 258. Decision taken. 131 revisions. The committee suggests that we take it into account. The motorist asks for this decision to be confirmed. Please vote. [[14:09:56]] For 258. Decision taken. 133 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The motorist requires that it be put in place for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:10:21]] For 258. Decision taken. 134 revisions. The committee is accounted for. At the same time, the Motovlover requires that it be put to the test. Please vote. [[14:10:47]] For 261 Decision taken. 135 revisions. It's counted by the committee. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[14:11:09]] For 253 Decision taken. 138 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The motorist requires that it be put in place for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:11:31]] For 253 Decision taken. 139 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[14:11:54]] For 249 Decision taken. 141 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[14:12:16]] For 253 Decision taken. 143 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The motorist requires that it be put in place for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:12:38]] For 247 Decision taken. 144 revisions. It's counted by the committee. The motorist requires that it be put in place for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:13:01]] For-170. The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. 145 revisions. It's counted by the committee. At the same time, the Motovlover requires confirmation. Please vote. [[14:13:32]] For 255 Decision taken. 147 revisions. The committee is accounted for. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[14:13:56]] For 253 Decision taken. 149 revisions. It's counted by the committee. The rider asks for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:14:22]] For 257 Decision taken. 150 repairs. The committee is accounted for. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[14:14:45]] For 261 Decision taken. 151 revisions. It's counted by the committee. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[14:15:08]] For 266 Decision taken. 153 revisions. It's counted by the committee. The rider requires confirmation. Please vote. [[14:15:31]] For 257 Decision taken. 154 revisions. It's counted by the committee. The motorist requires it to be put on the stand. Please vote. [[14:15:55]] For 267 Decision taken. And the final amendment that Mr. Motovlovec wants to make for confirmation, 158th. Dear colleagues, the committee took this amendment into account. At the same time, Motovílova’s national deputy demands that it be put to the test. Please vote. [[14:16:31]] For 272 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is another appeal by the people’s representative of Arahamaia regarding amendment 97. Please, David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u191	Colleagues, number 97, please don't support her. Given that this adjustment is related to the formula for renting ore, and now the world price for ore does not meet the expectations when they were put in the first stage, so please do not support the adjustment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, 97 amendments, she was counted by the committee. At the same time, the national deputy of Arahami demands that it be put in place for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:17:34]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Danilo Alexanderovich, what numbers do you have left? Oh, excuse me, Nina Petrovna, which numbers first.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u193	You played with each other, as if in your opinion, your composition, and your virtue.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u194	Numbers first.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u195	I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u196	No, first the number, then we'll talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u197	Please be patient for at least half a minute. You've played the impossibility of asking more questions. 28 amendments, please, I didn't hear you put them on confirmation. I'm asking her to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u198	Now, for a second, I'm going to tell you if she was being treated. 28 amendments, let's see. And it's rejected. It's rejected. How can you put the rejected amendment that we have already voted on for confirmation? This is a manipulation, Nina Petrovna. No, thank you. Danilo Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, this bill came into the room in September, and so there were two rules for transferring the duration of the beb launch for two months. They're out of date. I'm asking you to put Amendment 155 and Amendment 156 for confirmation and fail, and not confirm, because these standards are no longer valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the two amendments discussed by the national deputy of the Hetmans, 155th and 156th are included. This is related. Danilo Alexandrovich, please explain briefly what is there.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u201	Corrections are related to the postponement of two months’ notices by the Bureau of Economic Security, November, and December. So they're just out of date, and we're asking them to remove them from the body.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u202	I see. Yes, dear colleagues, 155 revisions. It's counted by the committee. At the same time, the national deputy of the Hetmans asks for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:19:58]] For-28 The decision is not taken. And 156 revisions, too. The national deputy of the Hetmans with the same argument. The amendment is considered by the committee, but he asks for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:20:24]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Anyone else want it? We've passed the whole bill, as far as I can tell. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain Ukrainian legislation on the sustainability of budgetary revenues (project registration number 5600). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:21:12]] For 255 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. [[Applause]] Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, the next bill on the Chaplain Service. Shall we discuss it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, my God, I forgot. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, there has been a request to remove the chairman from the plenary. From two factions, that's what I understand. Yeah? We are united, yes, at such a pace. [[B in m in s a l in]] In accordance with article 29 of the Rules, such a proposal is discussed in favor. After a brief discussion, the Supreme Council may make such a decision. So let's move on to a brief discussion of this decision. In accordance with part three of article 29 of the Rules of Procedure for the introduction of a similar proposal for the consideration of the session of the Supreme Council, it provides for the removal of the presiding officer from the holding of the plenary session at the time of its consideration. So I'm going to have a look at this. Thus, in accordance with article 31 of the Rules, the reduced procedure of discussion takes place in such a way that the initiator of the proposal is presented at the outset. Please ask the two factions to determine who will be the initiator. Please, if "The Opposition Platform for Life" doesn't deny Irina Heratchenko, yes, then we can. Please, 2 minutes Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, there's not much in the hall right now. I'm asking you to cancel my speech and calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u205	Please waste your time and please respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u206	I'm asking you to keep quiet and give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u207	Quiet? Okay, we ask you to keep quiet, but tomorrow we will also ask you to do so if they are similar to the opposition. Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear entrepreneurs, first of all, "European Solidarity" will now appeal to you. Today, there was supposed to be a professional discussion about how Ukrainian business was going to work. And unfortunately, those people who promised to protect the Ukrainian business for 2.5 years have made a decision to take a voluntary bill now that would beat every entrepreneur, starting with FOP and finishing the medium-sized business, with a reduced procedure. But even here then they went astray when they actually didn't let the opposition put up some position to make a sound at what they were threatening small or medium-sized businesses. You have heard the chairman say twenty times today that Mr. Motovilov is insisting, at least you can give him the word so that we can hear, and what he insists on. And in fact, it was technology to not allow the room to have a professional discussion. Unfortunately, we see today that the censors are closed by journalists' mouths, unfortunately, we see for the fifth time a reminder that tomorrow there will be a great deal of action and the opposition has no right, you know, to say a word, at a time when opposition is closing its mouth even because of repairs. How is this done? This is done because of the total waste of the Rules of Opposition. The right of our faction to sound the amendments was violated and the right to make corrections to the confirmation so that a professional discussion could take place. What's more, you voted two mutually exclusive amendments up here, it's 117 and 119 again, check it out. And that's why we're going to give 27 bids to block this vote and give the room the opportunity to have a professional discussion about the criminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u209	Thank you to the initiators of the proposal. Please continue speaking to the chairman of the committee, as this question has not been discussed in the committee. Next, statements by representatives of two MP factions to support and two MP factions did not support the proposal. Request to sign up for the performance. Please, Captain Roman Volodymyrovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u210	Let's vote now!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u211	Thank you. Please, Signora Oleg Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u212	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u213	Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. I remind you that statements under the Rules should be on the subject of the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u214	Dear Mr. Speaker, you must be ashamed of today's consideration of this important country's draft law. I think you will be politically responsible for such actions clearly. And if you went to a special procedure, it would be quite obvious that it would be right if at least five amendments to the confirmation were allowed to sound, professionally speaking, explaining to your national MPs the magnitude of what a certain norm means. You didn't even manage to do that. So, unfortunately, I would like to warn you all, Ukrainians, especially you, MPs, who were so friendlyly pressed on the green button, that all the fiscals have promulgated this bill, and especially in the part of the administration, were prepared by the head of the committee, together with the responsibilities of the Head of the Oilykim State Tax Service, whom you have disgraced after even winning the competition, were not allowed to do this job. That's not enough, you let him out of the tax office at all. He was the one who insisted on all these hardships, on the additional powers you gave to the State Tax Service. We've been saying all the time that we're turning the tax service into a service, and you can see that every payer has to have a taxpayer, a baby, and another with a nakedness and extra opportunities to squeeze the business. So actually, the score is going to be business and people who voted for you. I hope that if you haven't been able to understand the rules of this law, but when you come back to work, I hope you'll come back to your normal life, I want you to feel on yourself, on your skin all of these norms that you voted for. Shame on you, "ministers of the people" and those who voted in favour of this law. Shame! You haven't been able to defend people's rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u215	Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u216	Alexander Sergiyyovich, I ask you to pass on the word to Natalia Yuriyovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u217	Please, Natalia Juryovna Královska, "The Opposition Platform for Life." To the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u218	Dear fellow believers, we have been waiting for six months for the government of the anti-crisis plan. We're looking forward to the monotonous adoption of those important decisions today that would help people to cope with these three major crises -- this is an energy crisis, this is a coronary crisis, and this is an exacerbation that people in the east are experiencing. But unfortunately, instead of all that is needed today, in fact, by government decisions, you're intruding. Now you continue to abuse the entire economy of our country, the people who are still in the country and working here for the state, the people who are working legally, who are paying taxes, who are filling your budget, which is why you're creating these stealing schemes for Big Construction, and so on. And that's why we're urging you today not to remove the speaker or change any other chairs. We urge you to immediately release this government today and determine with the parliamentary elections. Today, more than ever, we need parliamentary elections and, more than ever, we need an anti-crisis government that will be able to save and protect the country, to protect people today. Because that irresponsibility, those amateur decisions that are made in this Parliament, they will not lead to good. You can't experiment on a country like that. That's why "The Opposition Platform for Life" requires urgent reporting and resignation of the government and the self-release of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u219	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, our parliamentary group "For the Future" will not support two factions' initiatives to remove the headship of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's the first one. Secondly, we want to make it clear that using the special procedure, we would like to make sure that we don't abuse this application of the special procedure in the session room, because it's a kind of gin that flies out of the bottle, which then is hard to run back. Our MPs didn't support, in particular, the application of, you know, voting for a bill on the capital. And we're not going to support it in the future. So we approach what should be the maximum discussion in the room. And in this case, I think we have what to look at in the session room, we have to move forward. The bill awaits united communities, waits for FOPs, waits for ordinary citizens, so let us stop this discussion and vote for the urgent bills that are in order today at today’s meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u221	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Please continue, according to article 31, there are statements of motives, a vote by one representative from the MPs and groups whose representatives did not participate in the discussion. Please, what factions and groups would you like to perform? I get it, Fatherland, Voice, Trust. If there's no one, then we can put a proposal to the vote, I'll read it, in an editorial where two factions came to us. So I'm voting on the motion to remove the presiding Mr. Alexiyovich Stefanchuk from the presidency of the plenary for two plenary days. I'd like you to identify yourself. [[2:33:08]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Please show the factions. Please pass the chairmanship at the Ruslan Alexiovich Stefanchuk meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u222	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you for your confidence. We keep moving because we really have a lot of important laws. And one of them, we're crossing right now. It's a bill on the Military Chaplains Service (register number 4626). I invite you to the podium of the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee of Roman Vasilovich Kostenka. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to invite the distinguished people's deputies into the hall. We will now move on this bill. The high - ranking national deputies, are there those who will insist on their amendments? You'll be confirmed. But first, let's give those that are rejected, right? I see, one, two. Well, then let's go in order. The Kuzmini People's Deputy. Don't insist. National Deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidivna. Don't insist. 7th Amendment. 10 Amendments, National MP Bragar. Don't insist. 12th, People's Deputy Schufrich. Don't insist. 37th, Kuzmin. Don't insist. 38th, Frolow. Don't insist. 45th, Kuzmin. Don't insist. 46th, Frolov. Don't insist. 61st, Grissom. Don't insist. 62nd, Pawel. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, my God, I looked over there. I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Rostislav. 62, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u223	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Yes, this is another Pauline, Rostislav Pavlovenko. Dear friends, this bill is to become law today. I call on everyone to support me. But I also urge you to mention two important things. First of all, we could have this law back in the 19th year, because the Supreme Council of the Prior Council voted in favour of a similar bill in the first reading. Time's up. Unfortunately, it's only now that we're getting to the bottom of this. And the second. What's the point of this 62 amendment? The establishment of a credible barrier for the Church of the Aggressor State regarding access to the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations so that the Interfaith Council on Military Chaplainship does not include members of the Church of the Aggressor State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u224	62 amendments, you insist that we vote. 62 Amendment of the People's Deputy, Rostislav Pavlenko. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[14:36:21]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 63rd, Viatrowich. You insist, don't you? Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, I think it's very important that there be a Military Chaplainship Act in Ukraine. But at the same time, the bill that we are considering today has undergone some changes between the first and the second readings. And today the Supreme Council can open the door to our army to the Moscow Church. Unfortunately, I can't explain this position to the committee differently than by carrying out the political will of the leadership of a state that decided to use the adoption of a really important and necessary law in order to launch an agency of the Russian world into the army. My amendments allow me to remove this threat. Edit 63 predicts that the Council of the Military Chaplains cannot include representatives of a religious organization whose governing centre is in the territory of the Aggressor State. Please support this very important revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u226	Committee position. The committee's position is rejected, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u227	The position of the committee was to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u228	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I place 63 amendments to the vote of the People’s Deputy, Vátarović. It's rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[14:37:56]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next 64, Bobrowski. Don't you insist? He insists. Please, 64th Bobrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u229	I wouldn't insist on voting, I'll just take a minute of 64th and 103rd revisions with the possibility of giving my position. Dear colleagues, you know, today's opening room will show its unity in supporting the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Obviously, the Fifth Column has never served in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and today it probably doesn't. But I want to point out to everyone else that this bill is actually the tenth edition since 2009, and at last all the chances are that this bill is going to become law. Moreover, remember that boys, girls who go east to protect us must also have their advocates, those who hold their spirit, and those who return home with that spirit and adapt faster to their families and communities. So I'm asking everyone to just press the green button on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Solomia. Please move on to 69th Klimenko Julia. Don't insist. 73rd, Tistik. Don't insist. 74th, Urbansky. Don't insist. 76th, Klimenko. Don't insist. 77th, Pavlovenko the one Rostislav. Don't insist. 78th, Viatrowich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, this is another amendment to prevent the Russian Church from joining the Ukrainian army. Amendment 78 is very simple, so I'll read it completely: "Can't be a military chaplain, a person who belongs to a religious organization (unification), which, according to article 12 of the Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organization Act, is part of the structure of a religious organization whose governing centre is in a state which is recognized by law as having committed military aggression against Ukraine and/or temporarily occupied part of the territory of Ukraine." What should be directed, and whom should we serve in order not to uphold the standard that will protect our army from the intrusion of the Russian church? Colleagues, please support this very important amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u232	The position of the committee is to reject, right? Mr. Rostislav, please. Mr. Roman, focus. Decline, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u233	Overruled, yes. The committee's position is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u234	78 amendment, I put it to a vote, is rejected by the committee. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. [[14:40:32]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 79th, Costenko. Don't you insist? 80th, Minko. Don't insist. 82nd, Frow. Don't insist. 86th, Costenko. Don't insist. 89th, Pawel. Don't insist. '90s, Viatrowich. Are you insisting? Please. The only thing, Mr. Vitatrovitch, is my request that we be able to vote today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u235	Again?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u236	So we can vote today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u237	Okay. 90 amendments, once again, I insist on the same thing as previous ones: it prohibits religious organizations governed by an aggressor State from participating in the distribution of quotas for religious representation. Unfortunately, the committee rejected her. Please support this amendment, which is very important in terms of the protection of the Ukrainian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, I place 90 amendments to the national deputy, Váterović, and the committee rejects it. Please vote. [[14:41:41]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 94th, Costenko. Don't insist. 97th, Minko. Don't insist. 100th, Costenko. Don't insist. 102th, Schofrich. Don't insist. 103rd. Bobrowski. Are you insisting? Excuse me, Nestor Ivanovich, 102nd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u239	Thank you, Mr. Head. I ask all the amendments made by the members of our faction to give us, we will ask for their support. Please advertise them and give them the word. Honorable colleagues, of course, that we are now trying to limit one of the greatest denominations to allow the representation of our chaplains, priests, this is a gross violation of the Constitution, and it will only disunite the army. This causes conflict when believers of this religion, and it is the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, simply refuse to serve in connection with the absence of their priests among the chaplains. So we ask the law to be as responsible as possible. We propose that all of these restrictions be lifted so that this law unites us rather than divides Ukraine once more. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u240	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting 102 people's deputies to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:21]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next, 103rd, Bobrowski. No, it doesn't. 107th, Klimenko. Don't insist. Bragar, 108th. Don't insist. Klimenko, 110. Don't insist. Frolow, 113. Don't insist. Costenko, 115th. Don't insist. Minko, 117th. Don't insist. 119th, Minko. Don't insist. 121th, Minko. Don't insist. 123rd, Minko. Don't insist. 124th, Minko. Don't insist. 125th, Minko. Don't insist. 130th, Schofrich. Please, Nestor Ivanovich. 130th, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u241	Thank you. Dear Head, once again I call upon the entire room to be as responsible as possible and not to provoke another division among the military forces of our army. You know, unfortunately, we do have this for some spies, and for others, we do. Right now, the authorities are accusing Peter Prashenko and Rinat Ahmtova of creating a coup d'état, but journalists are saying it's about Maidan. Please tell me, what time did Midan become a slayer? We have Majdan as part of Ukrainian democracy. You're going to mark two dates in 2004 and 2014, so your successors are going to celebrate the third Maidan anniversary. The stage and the mutiny of your logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, 130 amendments, I put it to the vote. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:45:17]] For-39 The decision is not taken. It's fine. Don't insist. Kostenko, Minka. Don't insist. Nestor Ivanovich, your final amendment 149, I give you my word. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u243	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I still urge you to make this law unifying rather than causing a new division. And for the sake of justice, today we have heard the accusations of individual TV channels that they are liars. I've always expressed my personal feelings about the question of Wagnerians. I said it was provocative, it was designed, it wasn't provoked and it wasn't allowed, this operation, it was an adventure with increased risks. But no one has the right to forbid journalists to discuss this subject that I do not understand. But it's a journalist's right to say what they think is necessary, and if it's done under the current laws of Ukraine. That's how we have democracy. So, on the one hand, you don't like it, but you have to listen. Please don't persecute journalists.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, 149th Amendment of People’s Deputy Shufrich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:46:58]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've been through all the repairs. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall, now, one second, there'll be an amendment to the confirmation. I don't have any letters, so we'll move on to the first one. The first was the national deputy, Vjatrović, and I saw. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, I'm going to put three confirmation papers on one statement. So this is 75, 80 and 83. Unfortunately, as we have seen, there is a lack of political will in Parliament to put forth a direct spell of "Russian peace" and to protect the Ukrainian army from the destruction from the inside. So I urge you to keep the compromise edition of part three of article seven, which was in the original version of the bill that we voted for in the first reading. The committee, taking into account the rights: 75, 80, 83, deleted this rule, which was: "Can't be a chaplain, a person who is a member of a religious organization whose statute does not meet the requirements of article 12 of the Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organization Act." So please place 75, 80, 83 for confirmation and do not support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u246	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is about 75, 80, 83 revisions. The position of the committee to take them into account. I get it right, don't I? Is there anything else the committee would like to add to these amendments? You're insisting on the committee's decision, aren't you? Dear colleagues, the committee insists on keeping them in check. That's why I'm putting them to the vote in a row, that's confirmation. Dear colleagues, the 75th Amendment of People’s Deputy Shufrich. In turn, the national deputy Vjatrović puts it on the stand. She was taken into account by the committee. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[14:48:58]] For 237 Decision taken. The factions. The following amendment is made by the 80 national deputies of Kornienka, Kachura, and others. At the same time, this amendment is taken into account by the committee. At the same time, the national deputy Vjatrović asks for confirmation. The committee insists on keeping it under consideration. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. Stop, please stop, stop. 80th, it's Minko, it's rejected, Mr. Windy. Please stop voting, we don't take it into account. And then, you said 83rd. 83rd, Zavodnovich, Zabrodsky and others. It's also considered by the committee. People’s deputies would like to see the amendments and numbers more closely. Ensign, she's on the committee. The committee insists on keeping it under consideration. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. [[14:50:15]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. I know, Deputy Ducky, yes, two amendments. I'm sorry, let's go to Ducky first, then Motovilover. But first the amendment numbers so I can check the validity immediately. People's deputy Kacny.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, the 26th and the 4th revisions, please, I'd like to ask for confirmation before saying a few words about the law itself. Dear friends, here's the thing: we have to divide this law into two parts. First of all, it's a law as a legal component, and secondly, it's a religious, spiritual upbringing, and that's the purpose that this law goes to our military. And I'd like to point out, first of all, the legal question. I note that the Constitution has not yet been repealed, and it clearly states that the State is separate from religious organizations. And if we decide that a chaplain is to work in the ranks of the public service, who is not authorized by the religious organization, it violates the Constitution of Ukraine. It's about the law. The second question is about the spiritual ingredient, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u248	One more minute, he makes two adjustments. Give me one more minute to reason, and we'll vote right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u249	Thank you. Now the second ingredient is a religious, spiritual component, for which such a decision is made, and for what purpose is this law, so that at the limit of life and death a person can confess, get involved, talk to the chaplain, and get rid of the problems that exist in him today. What's going on? And the thing is, the commander of the section is going to do a survey in part to tell us who's going to represent the chaplain here from what religion. It is understandable what the vote will be like to receive a command from a commander. Because the military there is clear: he's got a command, and he's done it. So we understand which chaplains are not going to be there that are not going to be there. Hence, respectable friends, respected colleagues, yes, this law is better than that proposed by Vitatrović and adopted in 2018. Yeah, we're giving you a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u250	Yes, dear colleagues, two corrections to the 4th and the 26th, I'll put them in turn. Both of these amendments are taken into account by the committee. At the same time, the national deputy Kaczyny insists on their confirmation. So I'm putting the 4th amendment first. She's a committee member. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[14:53:21]] For the 250. Decision taken. And the 26th amendment. She's also considered by the committee. The national deputy Kaczynych puts it on the stand. Please vote. [[14:53:49]] For 284 Decision taken. And I saw another request. The Motovilovite People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u251	I'm asking you to put the license number 84 on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, the 84th Amendment of the National Deputies of Zavávnević, Besugola, and others, is considered by the Committee. 84th. Well, look, you can open and read. 84th. Then let me quote you. Article 7. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u253	The position of the committee is to take the amendment into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u254	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 84 amendments, she's counted by committee. At the same time, the Motovilovite MP wants to put her on the stand. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:55:14]] For-154 The decision is not taken. And the extreme setting of the amendment, I understand, Ivan Ivanovich Krulko. Dear colleagues, let us vote after this so that we can vote. Ivan Ivanovich, repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u255	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. You know what propaganda and spam is? It's when they just call the amendment number, they don't even explain what they want to vote about because they're told that. That's spam and that's work propaganda. It's, you know, like in that anecdote: on the train when you were driving, all the anecdotes by the numbers knew, they just called the numbers, and who knows how to tell anecdotes, who doesn't. So what I'm saying is, they can't tell anecdotes here, they can't make amendments. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u256	Ivan Ivanovich, I'm sorry. You took this minute to set up some kind of confirmation amendment. And please also let us keep our constitutional obligations. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations the draft Law on the Military Chaplainship Service (project registration number 4626). Ready to vote? Vote please, Your Honor. [[14:56:48]] For 291 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues, this is a truly historic decision. Dear colleagues, look, we have three minutes left and we have two bills, 4564. That's where all the corrections are accounted for. 4564. Can we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't know what that means. Do we vote without discussion? So the revisions are all taken into account, that's the second reading. All right, your honor, look, let's get into question 4564. If we are anything, I will continue the session until the conclusion of this consideration, for 15 minutes, but until the conclusion of this consideration. Registration No. 4564 is a bill, a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of information on the registered residence of Ukrainian citizens in temporarily occupied areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, as well as the drafting of documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine. It's a second reading. Dear colleagues, I see that all the adjustments are taken into account, nothing to be taken into account. Are you going to bet for confirmation? Please, which number of the amendment will you place on confirmation? Heratchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u257	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have an extremely important bill that simplifies the procedure for the registration of citizens living in occupied areas. We certainly support all such bills and rejoice that at last they find their place in the daytime, and the Law on chaplainism, which, since the previous summons, has waited for its turn, has been voted in the first reading in the past Parliament. But I would like to warn you that after the shushing that was in Parliament today, our faction will be putting all the amendments to the law. Because I think it'll be fair, and more than that, we'll be able to report to the voters just as much as the amendments are being made by the committee, which is where the debate is taking place, and I think the citizens of Ukraine will be happy. Believe me, the deputies of our faction, unlike Motovílovec, know what the amendments are about. We'll get ready for this. And please give me a line, we'd like to hear one from the Motovilovite.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u258	Motovilitz's replica, please. Are you going to make any adjustments, though, or not? You won't, will you? Just to say, right? Please, Motovilover.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not your teacher in law enforcement. You are national deputies, elected by the people. Prepare for meetings, read the laws for second reading. I don't have to explain to you what you're doing. Be sure to vote before you enter the hall. This is a preparatory work, please be ready and vote in the hall. Thank you. It's your job at the expense of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u260	Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of information on the registered residence of Ukrainian citizens in the temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, as well as the presentation of documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine (project registration number 4564). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[15:00:55]] For 299
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-30-m0.u261	Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock. Thank you.
