ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Prepare to register. Are you ready to register? I remind you that registration takes place by clicking on the "for" button, the first one on the left-hand side or the green one. Ready? Please register. [[10:03:02]] There are 177 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Elena Georgyevna Lis, Viktor Ivanovich Baloga and Alexander Mikhailovich Tkachenka. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I wish you health, strength, success, and, as always, the best! Dear colleagues, on June 9, 2021, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian National Deputy, who was elected to the interim election of the Ukrainian National Deputy on March 28, 2021, in the one-man election district No. 87, by Vyrasjuk Vasil Jaroslavovich. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a Ukrainian national deputy takes an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the Ukrainian national deputy Virastiuk Vasil Jaroslavovich is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u2	I swear to the people of Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all the countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u3	Congratulations! I wish you luck! Please have a seat. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. A stick? Igor Petrovich's staff.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u4	I want to refer to a colleague of deputies (good day, colleague), the people of Ukraine, the law enforcement agencies, and remind everyone of one thing that is written in the Constitution of Ukraine: the people of Ukraine have the right to choose. It means that the way people vote, they count it as their choice, and it's going to be that way. I would like to remind the ruling faction of the majority that when you went to power, you promised truth, justice, wealth, full refrigerators, integrity of law enforcement, respect for MPs, and MPs for the people. So I want to tell you that all you promised was empty, you didn't do anything. You've surpassed even the Party of Regions by what laws you're enacting. You've surpassed the Party of Regions by putting pressure on the law enforcement authorities and on the judicial authorities. People who look in the refrigerator every day after an emergency session and expect something to come up, because we adopt laws for people, they see that there's less food, there's more life, there's more inflation, there's more people coming out, and we're sitting here, and we're adopting laws. You stole this victory. You have robbed the people of Atonement. And I want to tell you, my friends, that the people of Ukraine remember everything and see everything and that they take away from them, they will definitely come and get it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u5	Please sign up from the MP factions and groups in accordance with article 25 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have up to 30 minutes to do that. Don't scream, please. Stepa Sergey Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u6	Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u7	Feder Venislavsky, "Serve of the People" party. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, our Supreme Council finally passed the Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum, which gave Ukrainian citizens an effective tool for resolving issues of state importance. I would like to emphasise that the Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum was adopted in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and it provides for issues that are being resolved by the people in the referendum. This is not the right of political parties to try, because of various manipulations, to exercise the right given to the people of Ukraine in their own political interests. We can talk a lot about how reference processes are currently taking place, how our colleagues from certain political parties represented in this Parliament are trying to call on their ranks not only the living but also the dead citizens of Ukraine. It is very symptomatic that in support of one of the political forces represented in our Parliament, 17 dead souls were raised from the grave. The 17 Ukrainian citizens in the world expressed support for one of the political forces who sits at the center of this hall in the second half. It's very symptomatic that in an effort to manipulate the will of the people, a certain political power uses outright falsifications. I want the law enforcement authorities to view my speech as a parliamentary appeal to register criminal conduct for falsification of the electoral documentation of the all-U.S. referendum as a political force that allowed for the inclusion in the initial group (think, Ukrainian citizens) in the initial group of 17 dead citizens of Ukraine. And then they tell us that they are advocates of justice and advocates of the rule of law. We should first look for our actions and then look to others. But I want to draw attention to another very important aspect. On Friday there was a meeting of the Central Election Commission. And just as the political power, supported by 17 dead citizens, openly, cynically pressured members of the Central Electoral Commission to adopt an illegal decision. I want to say that the referendum is a tool that should be used by the people and used by the people, and it is the political power of the Servant of the Nation that has given the people the tool that they will use wisely. And those politicians who try to falsify at the start of electoral documentation will understand that they are in the past and that will happen very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u8	The word is given to the People's Deputy of Ustin's Alexander the Jury's faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u9	Give Rustem Umer's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u10	Rustem Umerov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. If you support the Indigenous Peoples Act, please join us. For eight years, we have been in temporary occupation of Crimea. During these years, all independent media were forced to leave Crimea. Only a few Crimean Tatar children are now taught in their native language. Of the more than a hundred illegal prisoners of Ukrainian citizens, two thirds are Crimean Tatars. In the eighth year, Russia banned Majlis, a representative body of Crimean Tatars. This is a policy of extermination by the occupying people of Crimea, the Crimean Tatars. Russia is now also allowing itself to intervene in Ukraine’s internal affairs and to dictate what laws we can and cannot pass. Colleagues, our duty with you to adopt the Indigenous Peoples Act is an important step towards the depopulation and reintegration of our Ukrainian lands. Ukraine protects against the repression of Crimean Tatars and guarantees the development of indigenous peoples, but a law that defines the rights of indigenous peoples and guarantees their protection, or at least identifies who such indigenous peoples are in Ukraine so far. Although the very concept of "rooted peoples" appeared in the Constitution 25 years ago. The Constitution clearly states that "the rights of the indigenous peoples are determined exclusively by the Law of Ukraine", a law that is not. What's this bill about? We determine who these indigenous nations are. These are peoples that have historically formed exclusively in Ukraine, have their own culture, language and traditions, and have no other Fatherland besides Ukraine, these are Crimean Tatars, Karaites and Crimeans. I want to speak to the Kremlin propagandists right away. Representatives of other peoples living in Ukraine have their own language and traditions, but they have another historical country of origin, they don't fall within the category of indigenous peoples, they're representatives of national communities. Their rights in Ukrainian legislation are protected by a separate law, the National Minorities Act, the changes in which, by the way, we are now working on a committee with the public. So instead of interfering with the affairs of Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens, let the Russian authorities think about how to liberate our lands. Crime is Ukraine. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u12	The word is given to National Deputy Boyk Yuri Anatolyevich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Rabbi Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u13	Dear ones, I turn to the mind and heart of men. Tell me, how did it happen that the Fascism - conquering Ukraine today honors the fascists? Here's an example of the last steps towards a historic catastrophe in the last two months. Ternopil: Honor the 90-year-old war criminal, Michael Samits. In Lviv, schools have learned about Kubiovich’s activities, a manual of fascists. Poltava: District TV has released a story about the commander of the 31st volunteer division of the SS Petrichenko, who was involved in suppressing the Warsaw uprising. Stry’s mayor thought of putting on an essay form, following the last path of the coach of Untersharführer John Fialkok. Mandry published a book called "The Ukrainian Junkershawts: Preparation of the Ukrainian Army Corps of Officers in the SS." The year 94 was commemorated by the birth of the veteran of the Nazi division of Vrubliwski. Once again, I'm drawing your attention, all of this is happening in today's Ukraine. Read the interviews of these heroes, and look at the pictures where they are in pilots with skulls and bones. Let's move on. In Ternopol, a memorial board was opened for Marian Lucasevich of the SS Division of Galicina. A monument has been opened to Nazi criminals in the SS division "Galicina" Horoshevski. On May 9th, in Ivano-Frankivsk, there was a solemn opening of the memorial board of the Nazi division SS "Galicina" Mulik. And finally, it's an alien story. Celebrating farewell ceremony with SS veteran Galicina Orestus Vascule. For the first time, honourable men, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, were held on the essessian's last trip with the national honors of the Honorary Guard Company of the Presidential Regiment of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and together with them were members of the standby division of the SS "Galicina". Are you all crazy? You live in a land where the blood of your dead grandfathers is irrigated. And you worship fascists? What are you thinking? Where's your head? Where's the conscience? Death to fascism!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u14	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Sukhov Aleksandro Sergiyyovich, the Deputy Group "Trust". Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u15	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. I want to raise the questions that concern people the most today. First of all, it's about housing tariffs. We have a statement from the Ministry of Energy that a new government decision will be adopted as of 1 July, which will significantly increase the existing price of electricity for the population. So far, the fixed price is 1 bracelet 68 per kilowatt hour. The same is true of heating and hot water tariffs, which are expected by various experts to increase. Therefore, the government should present a clear plan of action as soon as possible with regard to the tariff situation in general and specific measures to protect low-income populations. It's a painful question, and people need to know what will happen to them in the winter, and how will the government protect them in this situation? One more thing that matters. After the issue of the provision of pensions raised by the Deputy Group, the government still adopted 546 decrees suspending the mandatory transfer of pension payments to bank cards. But the issue of the free supply of pensions remains unresolved. We have only a few categories of people left free, and all other recipients will receive a salary. So once again, I call on the Cabinet of Ministers to settle this issue definitively and to put a dot in it. It's not that big of a public budget, it's very important to people. One more thing that matters. According to the 546 Retirement Regulations, social workers will be involved. But how is it going to be done by the cosmopolitans when these same social workers are mass shrinking across the state? In January, I had a problem with the elimination of former social protection agencies in former district government administrations, and there was a massive reduction in social workers. Today it's up to 40 percent. Therefore, this matter must be settled. In addition, the pension delivery mechanism itself is not working. Because it's about providing personal information, whether it's settled: transport, security. Why make this process so difficult? There's Krašta, which covers the entire territory of the country, with the machinery working, the capabilities, you just need to review the corresponding rates for the delivery of pensions, and this issue will be settled. So please consider my request to the Cabinet of Ministers to resolve all the problems related to the delivery of pensions that I have just sounded and come out to people with a clear solution, and put a dot in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u16	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedina Sofia Romanovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u17	Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u18	Vladimir Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, just now Zelenski and his team have opened up the most insolent of the time of Yanukovitch's offensive to Ukrainian language. For days, Parliament failed an illegal attempt to bring the daily bill 5554, 5554-1 into order, which undermines the validity of the Ukrainian Film Showing Language Act. But today these projects are back on the agenda in the speaker's ruling. Mr. Head! Mr. Head, you know article 96 of the Rules: It is only possible to include questions in the agenda after consideration of the committee and the conclusion. These projects have not been considered on the committee, so we ask the stenogram to report that these projects have been removed from the list. An even more insidious attempt at Ukrainian information space is being made by the authorities today through a humanitarian committee whose illegal attempt at a meeting we stopped yesterday. But today it will be called back to 16 o'clock for the sole purpose of the second reading of the 4107 bill to impose the rights that Ukrainian television generally derives from the language law. This applies to both the language of the screening of films and the language of television advertisements and the language of pre-election agitation. Maybe there's a Russian party that's only going to promote Russian? In the fight against the oligarchs, the authorities, together with them, help the aggressor to ruse our television, our information field. We support the statement made by Ukrainian cinematographers, actors, directors, representatives of the Ukrainian television industry, numerous social organizations, such as the World Congress of Ukrainians, who call on the authorities to stop the disgraceful use of language. Television is a key tool in shaping national information space. We call on the people's deputies, who have a responsibility to the Ukrainian people, not to support this Russian-Oligarchic rebellion, this Russian coup in Ukraine. These amendments are not only dangerous, they are illegal, contrary to articles 116 and 118 of the Rules. They have no relation to the tex and object of project 4107 and are only now available, although the deadline for the amendment was December 2020. Mr. Head, I'm calling you again. You are well aware that Parliament must act within the limits of the law and that you must stop this controversy. If you disrespect the law and open the locks for the rematch of the Russian world, it will provoke a new speech field. Ukrainians will resist! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u20	The word is given to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko, the faction of the Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u21	Now I want to address the Ukrainians. Since July 1st, we have come up with such a tragic time when the President and his team have decided to sell the land. Few sales allowed foreign banks to own Ukrainian agricultural land from July 1st. They've allowed us to take off the top layer of the Blacklands since July 1st without any agreement. From July 1st, they're going to take into the peasants the land that they keep using -- the cities, the farmers' lands, and so on. The settlement with agriculture, the settlement with Ukraine, begins. And at that time, it's obvious that the President and his team went along with the main slogan of "national government." They said that any important issue that should be adopted by Ukraine, first in the referendum, and then they would adopt laws. The issue of the earth is taken seriously by people’s backs. 77 percent of Ukrainians demand a referendum, but the authorities, the "ministers of the people" are ignoring it. Not "ministers of the people," but people have been turned into slaves and continue to use Ukrainian goods without the knowledge of Ukrainians. You know, almost 12,000 people gathered in an initiative group to hold a referendum. 12,000 people from all over Ukraine. And now we can see with you the people of the people who promised the "servants of the people," is that a lie or not? The referendum and the referendum law is a lie or not? I want to tell you that what we saw was clearly a lie. Because first, before a large initiative group was held, 60 people were driven down on a bureaucratic basis, such as an administrative resource, and decided to hold a referendum on the ground, and nothing was being done to block it. Before the meeting, when the initiative group had to assemble, all the cables were cut down five minutes before the start of the initial group and the power supply stopped, dead persons were registered, thinking that it would discredit. But what's important is that the Central Electoral Commission, in which the vast majority of the "ministers of the people," the "ministers of the people" voted against the referendum and tossed a referendum on the ground. And that's why the people's execution is a lie, like everything else they do. But our team will lead to a logical conclusion. The Ukrainians and I will not let you sell out the land! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u22	Heroic glory! Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u23	Dear friends, dear colleagues, this Friday we will listen to the government’s report on the implementation of the 2020 State Budget. And we want to get honest answers from the government about the government's tariff policy, the unfortunate state of the Ukrainian industry that's going down, the issue of paying off debts for housing services, and a lot of other things. People don't have money, friends, and they don't have that money in their pocket anymore. No indexes. And what's happening today with prices on the food market and not just? We are paying attention to government and government as a whole to the fact that in Ukraine, the inflationary masculinist is fundamentally involved. Prices in Ukraine are rising unmotivatedly and disproportionately to wage raises and living minimums. During the year, according to Eurostat, prices for the most popular food products increased by an average of 50 percent, from 50 percent to 70 percent. Let me give you some examples. For the egg tray, 71 percent, sugar has become more expensive than 62 percent, oil has increased by 50 percent, and bread has increased by 13 percent. How can we survive the ordinary citizens who are below their means of living in Ukraine in this situation? In order to avoid deficits and to stop rising food prices, the authorities must urgently limit the export of raw materials and food and create additional incentives to import critical imports into Ukraine. We need to understand that we work a lot, our farmers, export and export food, but this situation is causing more price increases in Ukraine. Experts predict that by the end of the year, prices in Ukraine can on average increase by another 30 to 40 percent, and the peak of the inflation process we will feel, our citizens will feel by the end of the year, October-November. There is a risk that there will be an artificial food deficit in Ukraine in the autumn and we will have to buy raw materials in Europe. We're fighting today, our "For the Future" MP group is already fighting this situation on its heels, so it won't be too late to discuss this issue. Colleagues, we have to deal with the crisis together, not translate problems from the state budget into local budgets. We call on the government to give local communities in Ukraine real financial sovereignty. In order to do so, communities should have the right to set local taxes on their own and to determine their rates. There is a need to redistribute national taxes in favour of local budgets. And such real financial sovereignty will enable economic communities to survive in these conditions today and work for development under conditions of decentralization. We are convinced that this needs to be reflected in the 2022 budget now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. Back to the draft Law, registration number 5153. We'll finish now, I'll give it to you. Amendment number 313. Surkis doesn't insist. Radina. Smart. Mother doesn't insist. Reverend, what's the readout? What's the correct number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u25	299 missed, said you'd come back. 299.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u26	No, we passed 299.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u27	You missed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, we've passed. Turn it off, please. microphone. No, it's not. We've gone all the way to 312. We're leaving today, dear colleagues. I'm not coming back. If you weren't here, well, I'm sorry. All of it. It's 317 and it's standing. Up to 300. 317, I'm sorry. 317th, Shahov. He's a great man.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u29	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dmitri Aleksandrovitch, last session was missed by a regulation of 299, 300, 305. You said you'd come back. But, well, let's start with 317, which is what we're going to do next. Increase sanctions for economic operators, and they should contribute to the absence of illegal activities in the field of economic activity. Edit 317 rejected. Please put her to the vote. And it's a 299. I simply stress it, using the time to submit for a natural person with whom a contract for the submission of a one - time (special) voluntary declaration cannot be the obligation of a notary. These actions should be carried out voluntarily and should apply to the rights of the notary. Please put to the vote 299 and 317 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u30	I'll bet on the vote number 22 of the People's Deputy. 317, I'm sorry, Reverend People's Deputy. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:34:30.]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 322, Reverend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u31	Regulation 322. Article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition did not provide for a low threshold of sanctions. That is, the controlling authorities could draw from the entity the conduct of entrepreneurship from one tax-free minimum income of citizens to one thousand and 200. This revision proposes to specify the size of the possible compression. Please put an amendment to the vote, colleagues, to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u32	I'll bet you 322 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:35:25]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. I mean, two more confirmation papers, right? No, not anymore. Okay. Arahamiya, Gethmantsev, Vasilchenko, Leros and Jujanina Arahami David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u33	Colleagues, I'd like to put in for confirmation number 339 that actually has no relation to this bill, and for a year there is actually an exemption from our anti-offshore legislation. So please don't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u34	I'll bet you a vote. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, the committee supported this amendment. But my personal position is that if we make an anti-oligarchy law with you, if you and I announce a fight against large business tax evasion, we can't postpone for a year our anti-offshore law, which we voted with you in the 20th year. So I personally ask you not to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u36	Danilo Alexandrovich, there is no personal position here. I think she should be on the committee. That's your position. I'll bet you 339 votes. The committee was counted. You heard the committee's position. Please vote. [[10:37:14]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Dubinsky Alexander Anatoliyovich, 19th edition
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! This bill, which is sometimes called the Amnesty Tax Bill, introduces a bill that raises taxes for citizens. On another occasion, taxes are raised from property belonging to an inheritance. From the second object of real estate, this tax will be 5 percent of the inheritance value plus 1.5 percent of the military congregation. The bill also, once again, stresses that the tax amnesty is proposed to introduce a regulation whereby each second sale of the property will be taxed by 5 percent plus 1.5 percent of the military congregation. And every third tax will be 18 percent of each sold property plus 1.5 percent of the military community that you know goes to the general budget and has nothing to do with war. So I ask you to fail this right so that you don't raise taxes for Ukrainian citizens again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u38	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, this is about setting a rate of 18 percent for the third sale during the year. What kind of citizens do you speak of? What kind of citizens? About citizens who sell three or more apartments during the year? Indeed, from such citizens we offer to take 18 percent, but not from the sales volume, but from the difference between what a person has paid and what a person has sold. This will especially strengthen motivation for taking part in tax amnesty. A perfectly fair standard is designed to destroy schemes, dark schemes in construction. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u40	I'm betting on the vote number 19. The committee was counted. It's on confirmation. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:39:46]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna None. Geo Bagravitch Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u41	Well, first of all, my friends, last week we found out that the First Lady's Office would be created. So I want to say hello to Andrey Jermak. He'll have his office. As far as I'm concerned. I'd like to place 190 copies on confirmation. According to this law, a person who has declared money is obliged to deposit it in a bank account and can only withdraw it after financial monitoring. Thus, it will not move people to declare money. I propose not to support this amendment so that the final law can be passed and people can be forced to declare money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u42	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u43	This amendment sets a time limit for storing in bank accounts the costs that a person makes when participating in tax amnesty. At first, the idea was that the deadline should be until the end of the amnesty, we gave up this standard, and we introduced a softer norm, until these funds were checked for financial monitoring. Once again, these costs are not checked by tax, they are not checked by the controlling authority in any way, but the usual conditions for financial monitoring have certainly remained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u44	I'll bet you 190 votes. The committee was supported. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[10:42:06]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to the 44th amendment. We've all talked about the fact that civil servants who made declarations in accordance with the legislation in force all this time can't be declarants. So now the declarants can even be district customs officials, department heads, post managers, all those corrupts who can use this amnesty right now. So actually, the amendment would have to have a different meaning, but there were some lobbyists working here. And if we're saying that since 2010, it can't be just those A-class officials, it's just high-level employees. And by the way, category A has only been defined since 2016, so that's why this amendment makes a mistake, which will then be worth to the state and the ability of corrupters to retire. And, first of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u46	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, it is forbidden to participate in tax amnesty for national public officials who have served as national public officials since 2010, all others are allowed. It's about amnesty for people to participate. This is a compromise norm that we reached on the committee, because, you know, before the first reading, there were tougher conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u48	44 requisitions. The committee was counted. It's on confirmation. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:44:24]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Have you gone through all the lines? Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I'll bet you a vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Promotion of the Detinction of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens by introducing voluntary declaration of their assets and payment of a one-time assembly to the budget (Registration No. 5153). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:45:28]] For 243 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Order on Change in the Order of the Day of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm betting on the vote on a proposal for acceptance as a whole. The Gerasim procedure. Coltunovich. It's a windshield.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u49	It's a windshield.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Head! Parliament has recently failed to put in order a daily bill of 5554, 5554-1, which breaks the rules of the Ukrainian Film Showing Language Act. Today, these projects are once again included in the agenda of your decision. Mr. Head, you know article 96 of the Rules, it is only possible to include questions in the agenda after they have been considered on the committee. These projects were not discussed on the committee. So we're going to have to report, under the transcript, the removal of these projects from the ruling, from the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u51	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u52	Dear Mr. Head, fellow MPs! Well, next month, there are no key bills for directing gas to the population. And we don't understand the position of the committee that ignores it. The question of de-offshoring. Well, you want to fight oligarchs, don't you? Well, it's not just the political actions and the shell that you're trying to carry out, it's the real issue of anti-monopoly legislation -- deofshorization. None of these bills are available. The question of deepening the key funding of the medical sector. You and I already see how these games end with the coronavirus. It's fear medicine. Questions relating to the minimum standard of living. Why is none of the factions involved in voting? We will not vote for questions that have nothing to do with Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u53	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u54	Your Honour, Mr. Head, my fellow officers! I would like to draw your attention to those that have already been heard on the Conciliation Council yesterday by our colleagues of factions, individual MP factions and groups that the Supreme Council, by the order of the day that it is considering and the laws that it is voting, has been overly removed from the real state of affairs that are now in the country. If we're talking about those bills that are being added again today, they have a zero socio-economic cumulative effect, unfortunately. One second. As far as demonopolization is concerned today, it was said whether or not delligarchization. Actually, the issue of fighting oligarchs is the same as fighting monopolies. The monopolies are destroying Ukraine’s economy today, reviving its investment appeal. Why hasn't our bill of author Koltunović and Medvedczuk been under consideration since September 2020? We filed a bill six months ago on deligarchization, demonopolization, about reducing market concentration, and so on. This is what the Supreme Council is to consider today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u55	Let's go to the vote. I am betting on the vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 4690-16). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:49:50]] For 227 Decision taken. It's been decided. Show me the factions, please. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich. Jaroslav Ivanovich! The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Budget Code in connection with changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Promotion of the Childhood of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and the payment of a one-time assembly to the budget (registrations 5154, 5154-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:51:12]] For 221 Decision taken. The representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u56	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Your consideration is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget in connection with changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Promotion of Childhood and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens by introducing voluntary declaration of their assets and payment of a one-time budget (registration No. 5154). The project is one of three projects related to the project Registration Number 5153, which was initiated by the President of Ukraine from September 1, 2021 to September 1, 2022, by a campaign of voluntary, one-time special declaration of the assets of individuals who were paid for income taxed in Ukraine and who were not taxed or declared in violation of the tax law. We have just supported such a bill, and in this regard, under the terms of the State guarantees mentioned, it is proposed that the budget fee be determined from a one - time special voluntary declaration. In view of the foregoing, there was a need to regulate the budget legislation in order to include such a congregation in the national budget. The draft law proposed for consideration provides for the establishment that the assembly of a one-time special voluntary declaration to be paid under subsection 9-4 "The special voluntary declaration of assets of natural persons" of chapter XX of the Ukrainian Tax Code belongs to the income of the general fund of the State Budget of Ukraine. The adoption of the law will provide preconditions for the conduct of a one-time special voluntary declaration by individuals of assets that will enable incentives to be created for the removal from the shadow of income hidden from taxation and for the increase of budgetary revenues. Dear colleagues, please support the initiative of the President of Ukraine and vote on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u57	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, is invited to attend. Don't insist on the performance. The head of the Committee’s Committee on Budget Affairs, Kubbit Yuri Mihajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u58	Honourable Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited, the Committee on Budget Affairs reviewed Bills 5154 and 5154-1 and presented to the Supreme Council the conclusion of a committee that provided detailed information on them. In particular, it is noted that the bills cited are derived from Bill 5153 concerning changes to the Tax Code, which was adopted today by the Supreme Council on second reading and in general. The implementation of the bills, along with the basic bill 5153, should lead to an increase in the revenue of the state budget, but no financial and economic calculations have been made and they cannot be estimated to have an impact on the budget. The provisions of the alternative bill 5154-1 do not agree with each other. The main scientific and expert office makes separate comments on the drafts. Minfin supports Bill 5154. In conclusion, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council that Bills 5154 and 5154-1 be considered in the first reading following the adoption of the whole of Bill 5153 and, as a result of such consideration, Bill 5154 should be adopted on the basis and generally as a law, taking into account editorial and technical legal proposals, primarily related to the need to reconcile the provisions of the bill in part of its title and the names of the one-time assembly with the final text of Bill 5153. Since the basic bill 5153 has already been adopted, colleagues, please support the committee's decision and adopt Bill 5154 as a basis and as a whole as a law with the necessary editorial and technical legal rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u59	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u60	Please hand over Pottery Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u61	Talk to the microphone, please. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u62	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends and respected citizens of Ukraine, see, this law is directly related to the previous bill, which has just been passed, the so - called childization and the one - time declaration. Once again, we were told that all of this is for the good, so that people could legalize what is there and be honest and open. But one thing they did not say is that the law beats the middle class again. Under all the terms of the so - called delligarchization that Zelensky is talking about and talking about in the morning, they are actually beating right in the middle of the class. The oligarchs are fine, the problems are in the FOPs, the problems are in those who make a living, they're totally average, and now they've accepted it again. What have they done? If you have an apartment over 120 meters, a house, money over 400,000 dollars, and so on, you're automatically, and you didn't leave, and you didn't declare this one-time declaration that was now adopted, you were automatically counted among those who violated tax legislation. Friends, where is the presumption of innocence? Where is any respect for people? Do you want to know where the money came from? Why don't you tell me where you got the money for the endless apartments in Mariana Park, in Crimea, for which Green money still pays. Then you better tell people how you forgot to declare, personally President Zelensky, 5 million dollars of domestic government debt. Instead, you want tens of thousands of people to automatically count as criminals who will be excused by the D.B.I. Once again, you have appointed the middle class as the main oligarchs and continue to destroy it. We're against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u63	Tchaikovsky John Adamovich. Polakov? Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Anton Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, today is a global day for the dissemination of information on abuse against the elderly. Where am I going with this? In Ukraine, tens of millions of people are living below the poverty line. And that's over 8 million pensioners. And this Parliament, and this power, are doing nothing to keep them alive and well. And once again, we're taking initiatives that don't lead to anything like your "investment" and your "5-7-9" bills, like your "Tunker-Tunkers" bills. You're not doing anything to really work for our citizens. Because you're struggling with the consequences. Who's going to declare their assets if these assets can be taken away at any time by your own predominant law enforcement system? Your judges, on whom you complain, can decide anything. Your raiders can take anything. You're fighting, I'm telling you, with the results. First we need to create a really legal, constitutional regime in this state, and then we need to propose some nice initiatives. First, we have to solve the issue of pensions, tariffs, with the provision of our people, and then we have to go back to these ephemeral bills that, once again, will lead to nothing good. We just waste our time and our time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u66	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u67	The citizens of Ukraine, who have just passed Bill 5153, are now continuing to adopt legislation that complements this terrible idea. The idea is that after the President's adoption and signature of this law, every citizen of Ukraine has to fill out a declaration. So if a Ukrainian citizen has a little property, a little money, there's some parameters in the law, it's going to have to be paid from the amount of human beings, from 5 to 9 percent of taxes on virtually total property. If you've sold an apartment or a car somewhere, and you have money in your account, you've paid all the taxes, but now you're going to have to pay between 5 and 9 percent of that amount. It's not an easy destruction of the middle class, it's a cleansing of Ukraine. Now, please tell me why the legalization of the declaration for all MPs of all levels, for officials of all levels, for the President, for the government took place without taxation by 5-9 percent? So you could write anything from bulls, yachts, and churches in a declaration, and no one took between 5 and 9 percent of the tax. And for the people now, the declaration has to be paid from 5 percent to 9 percent. It's a struggle, it's not legalization, it's just humiliation and taking away the last one. And I can tell you that it's a voluntary declaration. But if you haven't declared it, it's a criminal matter. That's how "ministers of the people" deal with the people. Don't back it up! We're against and we're going to the Constitutional Court!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u68	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! With regard to the law itself, our faction certainly did not support it, and we will not vote on the laws that are derived from it. However, according to the Budget Code, changes are being made to the Budget Code today, and this is an extremely important document in fact. And I'd like to point out that we've analyzed, for example, we've taken financial and economic justifications and forecasts of the impact of indicators on socio-economic development. Why are we today, in the discussion of the previous decision, paying attention to the zero cumulative socio-economic effect? Because if you even pick up the document and look at the explanatory note, you will see that there are no corresponding forecasting parameters. And that means they're not actually there. That's the first one. The other one. When we talk about the Budget Code, the budgetary process and the budget that we have today, we have to remember that we need a budget for Ukraine that requires serious financial flows, but it has to be not at the expense of the people who have received these funds, perhaps from abroad, something else, namely from the real economy, from detinization, demonopolization and other processes. So if you want to solve the question of how to fill your budget, you have to remember that your budget is two thirds of new borrowing, that's over 720 billion dollars, that's 65 or 66 percent. This is what must be decided primarily in the Codex Budget. One second. There is also a need to establish a budget deficit. Because when it's more than 200 billion dollars, it's an unacceptable figure, because for example, the budget revenue is a little more than 1 trillion dollars, 1.09 dollars, to be exact. And the final goal is to be every Budget Code, which is to increase the budget's revenue and optimize expenditure. Therefore, the draft document is not in line with the principles that unfortunately should address the budgetary issue in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u70	Thank you. I see. Hetmans Danilo Aleksandrovitch with a motive. After that, the Cabal. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. The Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, when opposition officials at the first reading of these presidential amnesty bills went to the rostrum and said that the declaration was mandatory, I felt that they simply did not read the text. But now I know for sure that these myths, these tales, this lie, it is created deliberately to discredit this initiative that it promised, not just the presidential team, this initiative for our citizens, to whom we give the right (right, not duty) to submit the tax declaration and to bleach their incomes that they received for 30 years without paying taxes, and to start their financial lives with a clean sheet. That's right. Please support these initiatives and allow them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u72	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, there has just been a lot of different criticism. But this criticism was largely related to the previous tax law. With most of this criticism, I actually agree. But once again, this was about the previous law. This law is a change to the Budget Code, it's technical. He says that if a tax law is passed, the money from such a declaration will go to the general government budget fund. So I see no reason not to vote in favour of this law, nor do I support the fact that if the second time happens that the tax will be voted on, even if you don't support that if that happens, you can't be against money going to the general government budget fund. That's why I'm going to vote for it myself, even though I didn't support the last one. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u74	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, the committee is making a proposal as a whole. No, it's not. Okay. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on the basis of the draft Law amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget in connection with the amendment to the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Promotion of the Detinction of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and the payment of a one-time assembly to the budget (Registration No. 5154). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:08:18]] For 252 Decision taken. You're not going to cut it, you're not going to make a difference. The committee asks for a shorter period. I am voting on the proposal under part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules on the reduction of the half-time supply of proposals and allowances and preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration number 5154). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:09:09]] For 230 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine in relation to the amendment of the Code of Administrative Offences, the Code of Criminal Procedure for the Promotion of Childhood and the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by individuals of their respective assets and the payment of a one-time assembly to the budget (Registration No. 5156). It's a second reading. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Reverend? How many rights do you have? Are you going to insist on everyone? Then let's go. The zimbaluk also insists, I see. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, 2 sets.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u75	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable chairman, the honourable national MPs, speaking of this bill, is going to the fairway of the previous one. What's going on? But there's an attempt to do it again, and there's an extra tax on those people who have worked their whole lives. This is about the middle class -- these are the people who built the house over 240 square meters or have an apartment over 120 square meters. These are the people who have spent their entire lives abroad paying taxes, and now, in order to buy a one-bedroom apartment in the district center, they have to pay between 4 and 9 percent of the taxes. It's my job to get our citizens out of extra taxation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u76	I'll bet you two a vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:11:25]] For-136 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next amendment, Reverend, 6.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u77	Honorary colleagues, all the papers, 11 of them, submitted by the national deputies Sergei Shahov, Alexander Sukhov and Sergey the Powerful, aimed at making changes that are primarily necessary for a proper legislative approach to punishment for administrative wrongdoing. In particular, Sergey Shahov suggests that the notion of non - time submission of declarations be delimited if they are mandatory under the Tax Law, as well as failure to make declarations in general. Because failure to sign a declaration is a more significant administrative offense and requires more severe punishment than timely submission. So I suggest you support number six and put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u78	I'll bet on the vote 6 of the Supreme. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:12:41]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Eight lashes, Shahov. He's a great man.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u79	Respectful colleagues, the activities of entrepreneurs during the pandemic are so complex. In the Supreme Council, it is now proposed that fines be raised for the timely submission of a declaration. Sergey Shahov, Alexander Sukhov, Sergey the Great Against this and we propose to leave a fine for a corresponding offence of between 5 and 10 untaxed minimum citizens' income. Please place this amendment on the vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u80	I'm betting on the vote number eight. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u81	Mr. People's MP, I'd like you to take a closer look at the text of the bill for your second reading. The committee decided not to make any changes to article 164, marking 1 of the Code of Administrative Offences. Therefore, there is no increase in responsibility in the text of the bill. That's why you're being rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u82	I'll bet on the vote number 8, Reverend. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:14:09]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 10 lashes. He's a great man.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the authors of this bill have taken the wrong legislative approach to the fact that the timely submission of a declaration is likened to failure. Of course, we do well to separate these things and to establish different responsibilities for various wrongdoings. That's why I'm proposing amendment number 10: Sergey Shahov, Alexander Sukhova, Sergey of the High Commissioner, put to the vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u84	I'll bet you 10 votes, Reverend. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:15:00]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 13 Amendments. Chess.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u86	Sergey the Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u87	Honorary colleagues generally do not enjoy the guarantee of exemption from criminal liability under articles 366 and 367 if the crime is related to the violation of tax, customs, monetary, and other laws. Although such guarantees are provided for in the basic bill 5153. Therefore, I ask that you place the right to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u88	I'll bet you 13 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:16:03]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next item is 16 Cymbaluca. Turn on the cymbal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u89	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Thank you to the technical workers for removing the problem. Dear colleagues, when we speak in general of this bill, which is related to the previous one, which was led by the leader of the Julia Timoshenko faction, the essence of volunteerism is gone. Dear colleagues, if declared voluntarily, what criminal or administrative responsibility? As a result, my law applies specifically to the actions envisaged in part two of this article by a person who has been subjected to an administrative obligation during the year for such a violation. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to stress that these bills should be removed from the agenda and returned to the drafting of the only bills that we will be talking about voluntary, not voluntary, today's administration, and the removal of such.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u90	I'm betting on the vote number 16 of the Cymbaluk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:55]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 17 law. He's a great man.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I would like to stress the issue of fines again. The Supreme Council is not a penal body. The constant lifting of sanctions is completely wrong. That's why we're proposing to impose a fine for re-indemnity of 10-15 untaxed income. That's why I'm proposing the amendment of Sergei Shahov, Alexander Sukhova, Sergey of the Magnificent to put to the vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u92	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I repeat, the bill does not reinforce administrative responsibility. Stop insisting on changes that are now out of date. No changes are made to article 164, which is marked 1 of the Code of Administrative Violations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u94	I'm betting on the vote of the 17th Chessov. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:16]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next line is 19. Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u95	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear National Deputies! If the bill speaks of voluntary, (pay attention!) voluntary declaration, what may be the administrative and criminal responsibility for volunteering? Dear colleagues, either change the title of the bill as well as the previous one. Because otherwise, what could be the release from administrative and criminal responsibility? The name does not match the substance. Tell the Ukrainian people honestly that this is the first step toward a comprehensive declaration and everything. Then it makes sense that there will be administrative and criminal responsibility. Please support my number 19. 20th is going to be next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u96	I'll bet you 19 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:21:48]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 20 lashes, Cymbaluk. Mikhail Mikhailovich, are you going to insist on all the work?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u97	I don't have much left, Mr. Head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u98	Is it two minutes now?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u99	And then there's this amendment, after that. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorary colleagues, when we speak of the release or mitigation of criminal and administrative responsibility for the voluntary, attention, declaration of Ukrainian citizens, we should also speak of other matters. Will the state in the bank today guarantee that the cash that the people will deposit into the banks will be protected from bankruptcy of the bank, from its liquidation. Because, if you'll excuse me, we're going to be looking at a bill when the Savings Bank of Ukraine guarantees only 200,000 deposits. Where's the rest? Who's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u100	I'll bet you 20 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:21]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Shahov, 22nd. Reverend? He's a great man.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I emphasize once again, and in this I am supported by my colleagues Sergei Shahov and Alexander Sukhov, who have no substance in the proposal to be relieved of administrative responsibility for actions taken until January 1st, 21st, because they have passed the age of commitment to administrative responsibility. With this in mind, I'd like you to put number 22 on confirmation. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u102	I'll bet 22 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:17]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. 24 revisions, Reverend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u103	This right right here, we're proposing to re-enact the non-declaration of 15-20 untaxed income. Because, as I've already pointed out, increasing the fines for entrepreneurs at such an unforgivable time is completely wrong. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support entrepreneurs and support this amendment, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u104	I'll bet you 24 votes. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:04]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. The 25th Amendment is also the Great One.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u105	Honorary colleagues, who have applied to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, have been seeking to reconcile the legal rules to the above amendments and are proposing to amend the sanctions for administrative offences. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support line 25 Sergey Shahov and Alexander Sukhova. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u106	I'll bet on the vote of the 25th Supreme. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:56]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 41 redundancies, Reverend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u107	The following rights of the National Deputies Sergei Shahova, Alexander Sukhova, Sergey of the Powerful are intended to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine to article 232, footnote 3, “Illicit disclosure, transmission or access to information contained in a one-time special voluntary declaration”. Amendment 41 suggests that the commission of a crime may not necessarily be a result of criminal intent, nor can the data be disclosed because of negligence on the part of the person who has access to it. So, colleagues, please support the 41st Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u108	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, we are now wasting our time with you and spending the money of the Ukrainian people because the stated standard, in particular 232 marked 3, is excluded from the body of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u110	I'll bet on the vote number 41 of the Supreme. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:31]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Tsymbaluk. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u111	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I think it would be logical to address the Ukrainian people. What is proposed by these bills today, by the way, which are packaged together with Bills 5153, 5154, 5155? It is likely that some authors have shown statistics and how many Ukrainian citizens keep their baskets at home without trusting the Ukrainian banking system. And they figured that you don't have to create extra work months, you don't have to develop an economy, you just have to lure and take money from the Ukrainians and put it into the Ukrainian banks that are still working today. Here's the basic idea for me. Let me explain why. First. In fact, these people, who keep 400,000 or more at home, have been collecting these funds, perhaps someone who's been conscious of life, to buy an apartment, a land plot, so that maybe they can buy a car. And now they are. No one wants to know where he made the money, whether he paid the taxes. We have to go to the bank, put this in a special account. Attention, wait until the monitoring check them out without setting a deadline, year or two. And no one will pay interest on that money, which is the danger. Next thing you know, respectable colleagues. This will strike those who work abroad today, pay taxes for those costs, pass here today through the banking system, and relatives have to pay between 5 and 9 percent again. This will strike those who are selling an apartment today, which has been purchased in the unknown as and when. This too will have to be paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u112	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 42 of the Cymbaluk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:11]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 49 lashes, Reverend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u113	45th, 45th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u114	45 revisions, Reverend, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, responding to a report that we have to take care of Ukrainian citizens, so here's the next piece of legislation on this. So Sergey Shahov, Alexander Sukhov, Sergey the Great, offers the following for the benefit of the citizens. In view of the fact that a crime does not necessarily have a criminal intent, it is proposed to reduce punishment for it, and if it is committed for the first time not to use deprivation of liberty as a form of punishment. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please support the citizens of Ukraine and support this bill for the benefit of the citizens. Thank you. Please be supportive. Put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u116	Thank you. I'll bet you 45 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:31:18]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Forty-nine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, the punishment for the crime that is proposed to be increased is not proportionate. Because, first of all, it's not the fact that there may be a criminal intention in this process, and the main thing is that there is no social danger. Thus, it is suggested that fines be reduced for the commission of the crime. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the rights of national deputies Sergey Shahov, Alexander Sukhova and Sergey of the Magnificent to vote in favour of her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. This is an extreme amendment, and then we go to the vote. I'll bet on the vote number 49 of the People's Deputy. The committee is not supported. The position of the committee, please give me more.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee is that the article proposed for the first reading, draft article 232 marked 3, is excluded from the body of the bill. And that's why all the suggestions that last 20 minutes in this room are irrelevant, because we've ruled out this standard for the second reading. And there is no increase in criminal responsibility or administrative responsibility in the bill that we are currently considering.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u120	I'll bet on the vote number 49 of the People's Deputy. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:33:08]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine as a result of amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Promotion of the Detining of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by natural persons of their assets and the payment of a one-time assembly to the budget (Registration No. 5156). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:34:08]] For 257 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Show the factions, please. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 01.06. 2021 on the adoption in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on the Ordering of Certain Protection Issues (registration No. 3450-P). Can we vote now? Then the national deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Anatoliyovich, is invited to the floor. The issue is being considered by a simplified procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Now we're talking about canceling the results of the vote for the corruption detection bill, because this bill is nothing more than another imitation of the power to fight this same corruption. So tell me, with the majority, your own Attorney General, the Head of the Bureau, the head of the D.B.I., is it possible to fight corruption without any additional laws that make changes for the fourth time? Yeah, maybe. Is it possible to control what is done by the faction itself, by its own law enforcement officers, by its own administrators of the Handicrafts Cabinet, and by the central authorities of the executive branch? Yeah, maybe. Is it even possible to talk about corruption detection when even in this room is the discovery of the corruption of Geo Leros, who, instead of 10 percent of the corruption that has been exposed, receives a 10th or some kind of criminal act? It's all just simulations. Only a delay in time to continue building corrupt schemes in power. And that's why we have to cancel this bill because there are all the appropriate mechanisms now in the President's Office, the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, the DBR, the IMF and other authorities to fight this corruption. In general, open the NAZK website. How many references have there been from so - called firefighters in general? There is no such information. There is only information on 40 cases that have been opened since the beginning of the year, of which only half have been brought to trial. You know, friends, when I see how the Ministry of Economics reports that a teenage Ukrainian Conquest with 14,000 acres of land is a waste, there's no other evidence that there's corruption in Ukraine. Therefore, no laws are necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u122	The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u123	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Well, let me get this straight. First of all, the Supreme Council is not currently addressing the issue of the vote no longer. And there's a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council on adoption in general, taking into account the President's proposals for a bill amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on the organization of individual protection issues. At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee considered the draft Decree 3450-P, introduced by the People's Deputy Dubinsky, which is proposed to cancel Parliament's decision on adoption in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine for the draft Law (registration 3450). Because, according to the author of the draft decree, this decision was taken in violation of the requirements of the Supreme Council Rules. In summary, the committee adopted the conclusion of the draft Decree (registering 3450-P) and recommends that Parliament decide how to vote on the adoption or rejection of the draft Order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u124	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u125	Please pass it on to Jaroslav Jurczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u126	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u127	More recently, Mary Butler, a man who is very well known in the circles of the FBI, specifically in the fight against major criminal crimes, particularly corruption, said that Ukraine lacks an effective detection mechanism, the very ones responsible for corruption. With the discoverers here and mentioned, not even negative, Mr. Geo Leros, there is Oleg Polishtuk of Energoatum, is Judge Larissa Golnik, and in order for them to have effective protection from the state, this law is required. Here you can only say that the President carried out his mission, and when the law was broken, especially in this room, manipulating various references to European legislation, the President promised a broken law and put it back in the room in order for us to adopt a quality bill. And that's why this Order needs to be broken down now -- it's just a delay so that the mechanism doesn't start working, especially the mechanism of a protected "one-stop-shop" addressing NAMCs on the spotter's side. But I can't help but agree that as long as the Office of the President's deputy director of this Office is Mr. Tatarov, who is involved in corruption, and no exposeer can help bring him to justice until the Chief of the President's Office, i.e. his brother, sells his office, the fight against corruption will be more like an imitation, regardless of 100 percent of his own or 120 percent of his prosecutors. But you can't vote for that, you have to fail.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u128	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u129	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. What is the problem with the Offenders Law? According to European Directive 2019/1937, the exposeer, and a number of other directives, is the discoverer of a person who is within a system, either a public or a private one, and because of his work he has become known for his corruption. Suppose the deputy minister heard the minister give illegal instructions, or the judge knows that the head of the court gives illegal instructions, which is the disciplinarians in the European sense. Unfortunately, the president was dragged into the whistleblowers law, not the whistleblowers. Because, according to the definition we have in the law, it's stated that there could be any discoverer, regardless of where he got this information: is it known to him as a professional activity, or is he just passing by someone's house, sticking his finger and saying there's a corrupter living here. Regrettably, the proposed legislation has nothing to do with European legislation on discoverers. That's the first story. And the second story is, of course, traditional for Ukraine, which is called anonymity. An anonymous person reveals no European document. An anonymous man is not a finder, he's a rat. All the repressions in Ukraine in the 1930s took place on the basis of the anonymities given. So what we are now being asked to do in conjunction with the President's remarks is to return to the 1930s when anonymities will appear, which will necessarily have to be considered. These anonymists can continue to receive the right status and so on and so forth. The President has been misled: The President is not being led to Europe, the President is being dragged into the Soviet Union in the 1930s, into the whistleblower law, not the whistleblower law. Fatherland supports the Offenders Act, but we're against the whistleblower law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u130	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u131	Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u132	Geo Bagravitch Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u133	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! The topic of corruption discoverers is my favorite, so let's get started. A year and a half ago, we learned how the "secretary" of the President of Ukraine, Mr. Jermak and his brother, were "barring" state offices. What happened, did one of them take responsibility? Absolutely not. Six months later, we learned how Mr. Jermak’s assistants took office, became city council deputies, and went to various councils completely. So what's the big deal? We have seen that there is a complete lack of accountability from what we have done. That's why I have a very good proposal to establish the status of a certain discoverer at the legislative level. We know that some of the national MPs are "marining" at Mr. Jermak's reception. For them to tell us once a week, they were the discoverer of the relationship between Zelenski and Jermak. Then the whole country will find out why Mr. Zelensky is so holding his "secretary" in this position that he's getting out of this, what kind of close relationship they have. Of course, for this determination, it must be broken down. But I would like to remind all future exhibitors that we need to think carefully before exposing corruption in the context of the President of Ukraine. Because first things first, you'll be the one to be opened up to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u134	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich. Don't insist. All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Invite people's deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, that's it. Dear colleagues, no. I called Zagradni. It didn't. Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and in the whole of the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 01.06. 2021 on the adoption in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on the Ordering of Certain Protection Issues (registration number 3450-P). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[11:46:25]] For-86 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. Ruslan Alexiyovich, announcing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, four statements have been received from the People's Deputies of the Voice faction asking them to count their vote as "against" the 4693-16 project. This is the national MP Rudik, the national deputy of Železniak, the national deputy of Ruššin, and the national deputy of Osadchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have enough ratifications over this period. Can we vote now without discussion? 0096. I'm betting on the vote on a proposal for acceptance as a whole. Come on, then. 0096 is no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and as a whole in the draft Act on Ukraine’s accession to the Inter-American Convention on Maintenance Obligations (registration No. 0091). Please identify and vote. Please support and vote. [[11:48:18]] For 342 Decision taken. Next question. I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] That was 91st. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Choice of Courts (Registration No. 0092). Please support and vote. [[11:48:58]] For 346 Decision taken. Next. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, as a whole, the draft law on the withdrawal from the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Legal Protection and Protection of Intellectual Property and the establishment of the Interstate Council on Legal Protection and Protection of Intellectual Property (register No. 0088). Please support and vote. [[11:49:43]] For 326 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the whole draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on Air Connection (Registration No. 0097). Please support and vote. [[11:50:15.]] For 363 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Law on the Ratification of Protocols relating to the amendment of the Convention on International Civil Aviation (Registration No. 0099). Please support and vote. [[11:50:46]] For three hundred Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the Protocol on the Ratification of the Protocol to the Convention between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income and property taxes (registration No. 0090). Please support and vote. [[11:51:23]] For 344 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol to the International Convention for Air Safety Cooperation of the European Community of 13 December 1960, as amended and consolidated by the Protocol of 27 June 1997 (register No. 0098). Please support and vote. [[11:52:07]] For 362 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have three ratifications. One faction will insist on the performance. I propose, if there's no objection, from the motives for each of them, and we move on to the vote. Is there no objection? Look, if we talk about it, we won't come in, because it's 45 minutes. Is there any objection? Motive colt, and we're voting. This is 0085, 0096 and 0102. Is there no objection? None. It's a motivator. 0085. Give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u137	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'd like to draw the attention of my fellow national MPs that somehow these three documents that I'm paying attention to, because they have a resource economic component, they're about external trade, they're about borrowing, and these are the issues that we have to pay attention to. For example, the first one goes to the SOT, yes. In general, when we talk about the World Trade Organization, Ukraine has joined the WTO in its own time on the most unfavourable conditions in almost all countries of the world. Even our neighbors have far more advantageous and higher security rates than those in Ukraine. So from this point of view, why do I insist on discussing these very documents, we lose much of these initiatives. There are slightly different things in this bill, more specifically, decisions, we can vote it in part somewhere. But what I want to point out is that the deeper the problem that the WTO has is that we have the lowest security rate in the territory, in general, in the external trade. And from this point of view, we need to get deeper and deeper with our external partners in solving this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u138	Thank you. I'm betting on a motion for acceptance, it's 0096, on the adoption of the whole bill on. 0096, he was talking about the SAT. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Protocol Ratification of the Protocol to the Agreement establishing the SOTA Advisory Centre (Registration No. 0096) as a whole. Please support and vote. [[11:54:52]] For 334 Decision taken. Next up, 0085. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished deputies, please listen. The draft law on the withdrawal of the Agreement on the Basic Directions of Cooperation of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the Field of Consumer Rights. I'd like to remind you, we've been looking at the issue of the exit of one or the other SND agreements on a number of occasions here, but the SND markets are fundamental to us, they've been providing us with more than $20 billion a year in foreign exchange. You recently made a decision to partner countries to bring in Russian gas transit to pass through Ukraine's GTS. It's a good initiative, it'll bring about $2 billion into the budget. But the SND markets, for example, last year we lost over $20 billion in foreign exchange revenue compared to the 11th year of the crisis. 20 billion dollars. Why get out of such agreements? On the contrary, we need to deepen integration both with the countries of Asia, and BRIX, and SCO, and SND, this is a high-tech collaboration, not out of agreements that conflict with national economic interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u140	I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the whole draft law on the withdrawal from the Agreement on the Basic Directions of Cooperation of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the Field of Consumer Rights (0085). Please support and vote. [[11:56:40]] For 331 Decision taken. The next ratification is registration number 0102. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u141	Thank you, Mr. Head. One last moment. 0102 is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabin and the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation. This is about additional loans that we have on our shoulders, on the shoulders of taxpayers, and on Ukraine’s budget. I've already told you today that we have $91.5 billion in government debt. You literally increased it by almost $10 billion in 2 years. You were joking in your time that there was a president who asked for credit, so you take twice as much as he did. Note this when you take the form of donor help and something else. These are loans that will return Ukraine's budget. Today, it's two thirds of the budget's income or more than 720 billion dollars is an extra loan. We also give a lot of -- almost 700 billion dollars to service and return. So in order for such problems not to arise, I would suggest that we go in more detail and calculate the economic effect first of all of these initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u142	I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of a draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation (registration No. 0102). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:58:29]] For 337 Decision taken. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u143	Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please invite the national MPs to the hall again, please. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure that debt is settled for energy consumption of thermal and heat-generating organizations, central water supply and water supply enterprises (registrations 3508, 3508-1, 3508-d). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? I see you're backing this bill. You're going to vote, aren't you? Ready? I am voting on the proposal to review the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure that debt is settled for the consumption of energy from thermal and heat-generating organizations, central water supply enterprises and short-term water management. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. Please support and vote. [[12:33:22]] For-173 Decision taken. The national deputy of Ukraine, Yevovanov Pavlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Bill 3508 is very important to us today as it allows us to have a stable heating season. Today, unfortunately, the population debt is 27 billion dollars to the Heat Communicator, and the debt to NAC Naftogaz is 47 billion dollars and 8 billion fines. This is the law that will allow us to resolve all these financial debts. The first is that he cancels the fines or pennies on all this debt that came after the first May of the 20th. The second is that it allows you to restructure the debt of an active heat utility for 5 years. And thirdly, it imposes a total ban on the charging, counting of pennies or fines by natural gas suppliers in the population category. This bill was registered last year. Since time has passed, we have worked on it on the committee. And that's why I'm asking them to support the 3508-d committee itself. Dear colleagues, I beg you, this is an important bill. We need to go through the 2021-2022 hot season. It's very important. I'm asking us to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u145	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Nagorniak Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u146	Good day, dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! I am the author of the alternative bill 3508-1 and I am also the author of the amended bill 3508-d. I'm going to ask you to support the bill that the committee has worked on, because it is more broadly addressing the situation of debt in the heat utility sector. I'll ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u147	The head of the Committee on Energy and Housing Services' subcommittee, Shipajlo Ostap Igorovic, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u148	President-in-Office, Honourable People's Deputies, draft Ukrainian Law on Measures to Overcome Crisis and Ensure Financial Stability in the Natural Gas Market 3508-d prepared by the National Deputies Committee members to take account of the requirements of part two of article 110 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of alternative bills 3508 and 3508-1 and discussed at the meeting of the Committee on 3 June this year. At the same time, the authors of alternative projects are co-authors of the 3508-d Drafting Committee. This is a compromise and reflects a fair balance of interests between all market participants. It launches a transparent and effective mechanism for managing the crisis situation in the gas market and heating. Part of the debt is objectively linked to the shortcomings of government regulation, such debts were not included in the accounts of end consumers and had no sources of repayment. Translating them into tariffs for future periods is irresponsible to citizens, especially during times of crisis. In this situation, HKG companies cannot prepare for the heating season in good quality, and this in turn threatens the technological crisis of winter. The first step of the settlement is to verify or verify the debt, and it is this bill that is being launched. The second step is to start the actual calculation process. To this end, essentially in September, the Supreme Council will propose a second bill on changes to the state budget. It will provide precise State-confirmed amounts that are compensable, as well as sufficient additional sources to carry out such calculations under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance. Thus, as a result of the committee's deliberations, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, assisted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Eliminate Crisis and Ensure Financial Stability in the Natural Gas Market (3508-d) to be adopted on the basis and as a whole as a law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u149	Please sign up: two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in. Beermaker Eugene Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u150	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I repeat, really, we have a systemic crisis today that began a few years ago, five or six years ago. Thesis first. The first theory is that unfortunately, tariffs and heat utility and taps were not just able to get to the point of cost and work for several years at a loss. This is the first thesis. The second thesis is that, unfortunately, there is a systemic population crisis in front of suppliers, heatcommuneers and water ducts, and we really need to solve this debt. It's 3508-d. We worked with the Ministry of Regional Development, worked with the Association of Cities, it has full support there. And that's why we're really solving a set of issues that allows us to produce a road map incrementally, to solve this problem of debt, let's say. Dear colleagues, it's not about politics, it's really about economic activity, it's very important that we get through the heating season and give a complete road map for the big business. So I'm asking you very much to support the very draft of Law 3508-d. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u151	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u152	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, it is clear that this bill is very important to the local authorities, especially at the time when new communities were formed, that we have chosen with you new leadership in our communities in places. And since the first heating season, they've had huge problems with the businesses that are burning our cities with you, the apartment buildings. And it's this bill to solve this problem that one of the main municipal problems of cities is the problem of heating up. The bill provides an opportunity to restructure the debts of companies that pay for gas. Our "Trust" MP thinks it's an important element, but there's a point to it, especially in that it doesn't have to be translated into local self-government and its own difference in tariffs. So we propose to vote on this bill on the basis of its important development for the second reading. Because there is no extra stress on local budgets. So I urge the House to vote on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u153	Rudik Kira Aleksandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u154	Inni Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u155	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u156	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, what is this bill trying to do? We've heard that this bill is trying to solve the debt problem. What are the amounts of this debt? The companies of the heat utility are currently blaming Naftogazu for 53 billion dollars, but that's not all the debt that is before Naftogaza today. There's another important group that's also responsible for Naftogazu's money, and government companies are about gas. To get rid of almost 24 billion dollars of the Naftogaz National Company. What does this bill propose? He now proposes to create a verification mechanism, as we will determine, the reasons for this debt: where is the problem of the state and where is the problem of the owners. And so no one thinks in this room, which is now just about paying off the heatcommunerge debt, because this bill is also proposing to write off the debts that have been made up of gas and gas. Guys, I don't think anyone in this room should be called who controls most of the frauds in Ukraine. One oligarch called Firtash. And what do we suggest we do now? We're proposing a bill to enter into the debt that has accumulated the heat utility, and with which, of course, we have to deal with it, and it's long overdue, and here I agree with the colleagues on the committee. At the same time, let's write a debt to Firthash. And all of this in the face of intense discussions about how to fight the oligarchs. Okay, guys, you can't fight oligarchs like that. It's wrong, it's unfair. The state does nothing to solve the problem of fraud. Can you remind us how lying doesn't allow citizens to switch suppliers? Or how did they terrorize Ukrainian citizens with temperature ratios? And now we're pretending that only the state is to blame for this debt and let's write it down. You can't work like this. And to support such a bill in this form, but against the background of the slogans of fighting oligarchs, you can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u157	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, we understand why they are urgently trying to adopt this bill. First of all, we realize that the natural gas market is being launched, and those market participants who are in debt will not be able to buy, buy gas. But we also understand that when a number of bills are passed from different factions and groups, and when a bill "d" is created, it becomes better than the previous one. And it seems to us that this "d" bill, with all due respect for its colleagues, didn't count well what was in the previous drafts. We believe that it is normal to solve the proud peers of these problems, which have accumulated over 50 billion dollars in debt to the heat utility. We remember, and people remember, that the government and the short-term decisions of the NCRECR, which actually set unreasonable energy prices for residential services that burdened Ukrainian citizens and those companies that provide such services. But what are we offered in this bill? We are asked to re-indemnify part of the debt for natural gas through co-financing to local budgets. We're obsessive people with you. We realize that under COVID, the lack of central government support for local budgets, it's still a burden to bear. Another question is the various "hotels" and lobbyism that are hiding in this bill. Why do we need representatives of the NCRECR, as part of the territorial commissions, who will determine the amount of debt with differences in tariffs. NCRECR is the main reason for these debts. Let's do these "hotels." And we tell people honestly that we want to fix the situation, not satisfy the ambition and the desire to solve the problem at the expense of the people of the oligarchs who want to fight actively here in this room. Our parliamentary group will only support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u159	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, in order not to repeat ourselves with previous speakers, we support this bill on its restructuring and inter-accounting and so on. But what we're more interested in is that you have a period in the body of the bill that's been sewn up from October 1st 14th to 2021. I would like to remind you that there should also be a write-off of the population debt for residential services for the individual categories of the most vulnerable citizens of Ukraine. Because the public service debt since the 14th year has increased from 12 billion to 74 billion dollars. These are the funds that make it impossible to obtain subsidies from citizens of Ukraine, even the existence of a minimum debt. So from this point of view, the debt, which is 28 billion dollars in gas, for heating 25, for electricity, for domestic waste and so on, must also be sewn into the body of this law in order for the citizens of Ukraine to get the debt write-off. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u161	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u162	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. When this bill was considered on the committee, I didn't support it and, indeed, for one reason -- it's knowing that in the future the majority will fight the oligarchs, and this law directly supports one of the biggest gas oligarchs, so it didn't support it. It is proposed at the expense of the state budget and at the expense of the local budgets to write off all debts owed to NAC Naftogaz. But most importantly, once the majority MPs who are planning to vote in favour of this law are going to come to their districts and look at the population, their citizens in the eyes that they've actually written down these funds, and they're going to declare that they're going to fight the oligarchs. Think about how to vote for this law. "European Solidarity" does not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u163	Let's go to the vote. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich And let's go to the vote. There's more to the motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u164	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear friends, there is such a national Ukrainian game: to create problems first and then to solve them by pouring crocodile tears. So, for these debts that have accumulated, astronomical over the last two years, it's no longer the last authority to blame, remember, our friends, the honorable "ministers of the people," you are to blame, your non-professional governments, your corrupt body called the National Energy and Utilities Commission, and your entire non-working structure. It's tens of billions, and I'm paying attention, the law doesn't say anything about a source of coverage. The other one. The Fatherland is coming across a number of city heads, because it is they who are on the front end today who must be preparing for the heating season. And we will support it in the first reading, but we will fight corruption in this law. And the last. Ladies and gentlemen, you will now have to carry out the most dangerous mission -- to raise the tariffs on heat according to the price of gas. This should be done instead of creating new debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u165	Thank you. Please proceed to the vote, take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure that debt is settled for energy consumption of thermal and heat-generating organizations, central water supply and water supply enterprises (registration number 3508-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:51:26]] For 301 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the reduction of half of the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and the preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration number 3508-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:52:05]] For 267 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act "The Final and Transitional Positions" of Ukraine "On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Prior Action from the Reform of the Prosecutor's Office" on Certain Aspects of the Transitional Regulations (Registration No. 5157). Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Then let's go to the table. Tsymbaluk. Mikhail Mikhailovich, are you going to insist on all the work? On one? What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u166	Third. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, our team has consistently and in principle advocated reforming the law enforcement agencies in general and the prosecutor's office in particular. But we don't understand whether it's reforming or disbanding. My right was to have prosecutors who, on the day of the entry into force of this law, would be transferred to the Office, the Attorney General's Office, the local, inter-regional, only if the general attestation was carried out. The same is true of the prosecutor’s investigators, the Attorney General’s Office, the interdistricts, district, regional, military, including, were transferred to office only after the certification was carried out in accordance with the requirements of this legislation. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u167	I'll bet on it. That's 3 revisions, right? I'm betting on the vote number 3 of the Cymbal. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:54:20]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Your Majesty, Sergey Anatolyovich, how many orders will you insist on? What's the number one?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u168	Nine, number nine. Dear colleagues, the law suggests that a more specific formulation should be made regarding the non-testation, because the first-reading text contains the phrase "failure," which does not fully reveal the meaning of non-transition. Therefore, honourable colleagues, Amendment 9 please put to the vote and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u169	I'll bet on the vote number nine of the Grand People's Deputy. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:15.]] For-88 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is the Magnificent.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u170	Amendment number 10. Dear colleagues, the law proposes the legal regulation of the prosecutor's certification, which does not only end in section II, paragraph 7, of the law, so it is proposed to use a more comprehensive definition and to add that "Normals determined by valid legislation". Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u171	I'll bet you 10 votes. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:57]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Next line is 12, Shahov. He's a great man.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u172	This is proposed by the National Deputies Sergei Shahov and Alexander Sukhov, who are invited to give district prosecutors the authority to form, determine the composition, period and order of work of the human resources commissions. So, colleagues, please put this amendment to the vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u173	I'll bet you 12 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:46]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 14th Amendment, Reverend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u174	Edit 14. This revision suggests that a more specific formulation should be made regarding the non-existence of an attestation. Because the first-reading text contains the phrase "failure," which does not fully reveal the meaning of non-existence. I also want to say for number 17. It is also related to Law 12, which is proposed to empower the district prosecutors to form, determine the composition and working time of the human resources commissions. I ask you to put the 14 and 17 amendments to the vote individually.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u175	I'll bet on the vote of the 14th Supreme. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:57:53]] For 109 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is the Magnificent.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u176	Amendment 18. Dear colleagues, the law suggests leaving the office of a member of the Ukrainian Council of Prosecutors as an elected member. The order given by the People’s Deputy Sukhiv is also supported. And we insist on putting her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u177	I'll bet you 18 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:32]] For 104 The decision is not taken. He's a great man, he's the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u178	Amendment number 20. Dear colleagues, the prosecutor’s conference is an extremely important part of the work of the body, and it must be attended by the Attorney General. And only in the event of the inability to be present can the Attorney - General, by his commission, oblige the deputies to perform their respective functions. So, dear colleagues, it's a very important readjustment. Please put her to the vote and support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u179	I'll bet you 20 copies, the author insists. The committee was not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:25]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Final amendment and then we go to voting for the law as a whole. 21st, Reverend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, current legislation does not contain the concept of "legal higher education". The law also proposes to oblige the Attorney General’s Office to duplicate the decision to convene an e - mail announcement. It's very important. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u181	I'll bet you vote number 21. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:00:10]] For 114 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Ready? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the first-line measures for the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office's Office on certain aspects of the transitional provisions (Registration No. 5157). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:01:02]] For 293 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving the selection and preparation of prosecutors (registration number 5158). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:01:50]] For 255 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on the Law Protection of Nekludov Vladen Mihajlovich is invited to attend. Give me four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u182	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Speaker. Dear colleagues, recently Bill 5158 was not voted on here in the session hall, it was returned to committee work. There have been a number of comments, a series of risks that colleagues believe may hinder the introduction of the ideas of the concept enshrined in this bill. And we've really worked really hard during this time. We worked with colleagues, worked with the Attorney General's Office, worked with our colleagues and our partners. On May 11, such expert consultations were held online, an expert meeting attended by professional experts, including members of the Committee on Law Enforcement, representatives of the Attorney General’s Office, representatives of the Council of Europe, experts in the field of prosecutorial work (Lorena Bahmeyer, James Hamilton). A number of issues were raised that were of concern to colleagues, including concerns about the experts' comments on the lack of normalization of issues about the scope of the attorney-at-trainer's mandate, the monitoring of their implementation, the lack of criteria for assessing their work and other issues. We've heard all those suggestions, all those concerns, all the risks that we've been taking, and we've been working on a bill. In particular, we have supplemented this bill with 5158 new articles 301 marked 1 and 303 marked 3, which, inter alia, have structured the stages of special training, defined the criteria for the success of individual stages (primary training and internships), specified the specificities of the traineeships of prosecutors-trainers, defined the terms of reference that an intern can perform during the internship under control, only under the supervision of the head of the trainee (older group of prosecutors, the head of the prosecutor's office). We have put in such safeguards that an intern prosecutor will not be able to lead a trial, to be a senior group, only in simple crimes and crimes. It's very important. I think that's taken away all the questions that colleagues and experts had. I think that in this way this bill will be adopted and will put young people on the road to the prosecution's office, to those people who are actually set up to change the prosecution's organs for the better. To help carry out the tasks and tasks faced by the prosecutor’s office and to resolve the responsibilities set forth in the law. It's a very important law. He, I think, will increase the efficiency of the prosecutor's office and give the young a trip to the prosecutor's office. And it will also create, as colleagues say, competition, healthy, good competition in the prosecutor's office. So the fresh blood in the prosecutor's office is only going to be positive. So I ask you very much to support this bill. He's completely apolitical. Once again, it is aimed at improving the efficiency of the activities of the prosecutor's office and the tasks of the public prosecutor's office. Thank you very much, colleagues. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u183	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Danuca Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u184	Please pass the word to my colleague Bakumov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u185	Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support this bill, it's quite relevant. Unfortunately, we sent it back for rereading, and we cleared up some of the points that were being discussed. This bill awaits our superiors, this bill awaits our students who want to be prosecutors tomorrow. Today, a person with a higher legal education is unable to participate in a competition for the position of prosecutor, so it should not be. People are looking for their practice where they know where. We all understand how people are formed. Where do they form? In questionable companies. They pay for themselves social contributions in order to gain this practice for two years so that they can then participate in the competition for the position of prosecutor. We ask you to support and introduce an intern prosecutor. As for his procedural guidance, regarding his credentials, they will be limited, their actions will be controlled by certain mentors, senior prosecutors. They will have no right to exercise procedural guidance on crimes involving serious crimes or particularly serious crimes. Dear colleagues, I urge you to support and encourage our future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u187	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u188	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, many discussions revolved around the adoption of this bill. And what I'm saying is that one of the main discussions was how to take into account the experience of those prosecutors who have worked in the system for many years, they have enormous work in terms of investigating complex crimes and so on, and today, under certain circumstances, they're not in their posts. And of course, the bill deals to some extent, including these questions, because the passing of the appraisal to those who have not passed it will again be permitted. Of course, the positive thing about this bill is that we're still reviving the work of the Qualifications and Disciplinary Commission, and a number of other things that are now capable of ensuring the effective work of the Attorney General's Office and the Attorney General's Office. But still going back to the discussion about the intern prosecutors. Those who feel that today young graduates of our higher law schools have not yet had the appropriate experience and cannot embrace the positions of prosecutors are encouraged to read the bill carefully. Today they will be admitted to work on matters that are primarily related to disciplinary responsibility and to a number of complex crimes. Thus, the system of access for young people to the public prosecutor’s system today can in itself be viewed as positive. The whole mechanism, which has certain warnings, has to be adjusted for the second reading. That's why the Trust MP group urges everyone to vote in favour and support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u189	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, we have already blocked this bill in the first reading a few months ago, and the logic of our blockade is that this bill discourages professionals from the public prosecutor's system to learn and be qualified for the issues that this rather complex service requires. You think about it, doctors learn for six years, then the office, the teachers learn, everyone learns. I understand that before the second reading, more faithfully the second time you took it out, you made some corrections, but I don't think that's enough. What is proposed? It is proposed that after a qualified evaluation by a graduate of a law school, he be sent to a training center for two months to acquire the theoretical knowledge that he was likely to acquire while he was in college. Then, in the event of a successful conclusion, he is assigned for six months to an internship at the district attorney’s office to acquire practical skills. That's eight months. Of course, if you compare it to Ricksos, it's for some people like Harvard. But, colleagues, I don't think that's enough for a person to be able to become equal with all the prosecutors and, according to actual legislation, take the lead in criminal conduct. So, colleagues, decide for you, but do not compare everyone with the downgrading of qualifications. At first, we canceled our higher education for the assistants of the national deputies. Then the Academy of Public Administration was eliminated. Now we're building some kind of abstract presidential university. The prosecution will now have beautiful, young, promising, but inexperienced people, and you know what will happen: who will sit under them, forgive me, with judgments, and who will treat us, after ignorance, which, God forbid, will also come to the hospital.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u191	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u192	Sturdy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u193	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u194	Dear colleagues! A colleague here earlier spoke and said that unfortunately, this bill was sent for work for the first time, and we didn't vote on it a few months ago. You know, thank God we did this because we had the committee work out and make a normal bill, not that we tried to suck it up first. Let me explain the difference. If you were able to go and work as a trial manager earlier after you got out of the DA's office, that is to say, do anything without any experience at all, there is no working way of doing it. First of all, this applies only to district attorneys. You can't get to work in the district or the Attorney General's office without experience. Secondly, it's very important that they have taken away the ability of the prosecutor to be a trial manager, that is, a person without experience to manage the actual case that is going on. Nor can a person now be a prosecutor in a case if it is a serious or particularly serious crime. In other words, such ones will gain experience by handling matters solely for crimes that are not serious and criminal offenses. You know I'm not the super advocate of our law enforcement agencies, but this bill is now needed because we have a huge shortage of personnel in the district prosecutors' offices. Yes, it will need to be processed for second reading. But I'm asking you to support this bill in the first reading so that we can still fill our prosecutors with new personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u195	Krzemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u196	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Andrew Kozemyakin, faction of the Fatherland. This previous bill on amendments to the Procurator's Act is a vivid example of a new (in paws) "reform," which unfortunately was made by a majority in the 19th year. What does that mean? They wanted new faces to change under their new prosecutors who came to the prosecutor’s office. They didn't do it, but they complained about it, and they insulted the old people who, together with the Council of Europe in 14 years, with the Venice Commission, passed a bill on the prosecution, which was very balanced and specifically legal. There's a new one coming up today, old man. Colleagues, for both of us, the main thing is not to lose face when you make such laws and change again what we've done in our time, and you do it again and you go back to it. I mean, you admit that old and experienced, they're not bad. The Fatherland faction won't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u197	Now, the final speech, the Suffritch with motive, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I've come to realize that the main goal is that now everyone who's worked in the D.A.'s office for two years now, they're corrupters, they need a new face. You see, the interesting thing is, in the five previous presidents, you've never planted corruption in power, because we say you stole all the previous presidents. But now we see that there's no one to plant either. What is the conclusion? The President is also being robbed if we don't see any active high-ranking man who hasn't been called to account for corruption. So let's work professionally. We abstained from this vote today because there is no reason not to trust those who work in the prosecutor's office, and without the experience of taking people to accuse others – irresponsiblely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u199	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Invite people's deputies. Take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the improvement of the selection and preparation of prosecutors (registration number 5158). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:17:37]] For 276 Decision taken. Mikita Ruslanovich from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! We should be looking at Bill No. 4107 right now, but we've received some comments from the Chief Legal Authority. So with a view to taking them into account, as well as to ensuring the permanent irreversibility of Ukrainian television broadcasting, with a view to a credible prevention of Russian information aggression, with the aim of increasing the responsibility for admission to Russian television broadcasting.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u201	Don't scream!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u202	and performers, with the aim of increasing responsibility for using the language of humiliation, we want to make some (five in all) amendments on the committee today. So I'd like to take off Bill 4107 right now. I am convinced that today the committee, more specifically, will vote in favour of all the patriots on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u203	Don't scream! I'll bet you a vote. I'll bet you a vote on the offer of Poturiev. Please support and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] One vote first. After your procedure. [[13:19:15]] For-182 The decision is not taken. Any more questions? Thank you. Let's move on to the question. This is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws to ensure the independence of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting (register No. 4107). The chairman of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Poturayev Mikita Ruslanović, is invited to the rostrum. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Can we get a list then? By the table? There's a lot on the table. Skork. Don't insist. Scorch, 2 sets. Nor does he insist. Sumar, 7th edition. Is he insisting? 7 rows.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u204	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! First of all, I thank all those colleagues who have not now agreed to transpose this bill, because it was indeed a serious attempt to introduce, beyond all the rules of the Rules, contrary to Ukrainian laws, to actually introduce rules to remove language from the legislation on television and radio broadcasting, to put them in the Nakrad. This is not good sense, but it is obvious that lobbyist interests take root and we know whose lobbying interests they are. These are the direct corrupt lobbying interests of the active authority and of Quarter 95, if you can say so. As for my amendments, Mr. Head, I'd like to ask 204 and 211.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u205	7 Amendments, do you vote too? Oh, no? 204? 204 correct. The committee doesn't count. The author insists on counting. Please identify and vote. Are you going to perform? Okay. 204 revisions, Sumar. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u206	Thank you. This is my ability to argue this amendment. You know, I really don't like it when laws are written under individual people. That's not right. This law and this is my law, which the committee didn't take into account. This willfully corrects a particular person who now holds a high position in Nacrad on television and radio. My job is to return the age requirement, the retirement age requirement, and not to engage in the lobbying of some of the individual members of the National Council that are associated with you. Since we still have a completely dependent Nakrad, we have not changed the principle of assigning people there. We know that, in principle, there are most today that will lobby not Ukrainian information space or parity in this space, but rather individual business groups and authorities. Therefore, it is a great request to return retirement age as a criterion for members of the National Television and Radio Board that they cannot participate in the competition.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u207	204 revisions, Sumar. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:12]] For-90 The decision is not taken. 211 law, Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u208	Colleagues, it's a principle, too, and I'm very much asking you to be careful with it. Do you know what we're doing to you? We remove corruption from the criteria. The nakrad, which is actually going to be a pattern, a pattern, because it's an arbitrator in the information field in principle, you're in the so-called oligarch law, and you're going to write that Nakrad, you wrote that the Nakrad would define good people. This will be done by unkind people who have a record of corruption. I refer to members of the Anti-Corruption Committee and also to "ministers of the people." If you declare the fight against corruption, if you are so fighting for the return of responsibility for declarations and if it is not political manipulation, please vote for the amendment and confirm it. And I'm going to ask the head of the committee to evaluate, and why did corruption in general disappear on grounds that members of the Nakrad could not be selected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u209	I'll bet you 211 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:24:45.]] For 111 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line 5, Volosin. Don't insist. He insists, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u210	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I think the whole country has been watching for seven years how the National Council on Television and Radio from an independent regulator has been transformed into a tool of actual censorship. So I personally participated several times and as a deputy as invited in the National Council meetings, and I didn't see what was there. By the way, these members of the National Council, who had been appointed as former authorities, quickly recoloured, began to work for effective authority. I did not really see the main thing — objectivity and impartiality. At best, people promote their own ideological beliefs, which are not acceptable in principle for an independent regulator, or worse -- they simply follow the instructions of the Bank. So we think that in today's conditions, the National Council needs a very deep reform and there's no way to reinforce its authority, because there is no confidence in the journalistic environment today. Please put my vote to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u211	I'm betting 5 votes. Please identify and vote. [[13:26:13]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Edits are now Princely, three revisions. 360th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u212	Thank you. This amendment refers to the early termination of the terms of office of members of the National Council. The very reason and procedure for the early termination of Nakradya's powers makes it impossible for us to support this bill. The bill leaves the provision for the release of members of the Nakrad at the initiative of the assigned entity. Dear friends, this means that, for example, the President, whoever is not in this position, can at any time appoint or release a member of the Nacraada, and such a member of the Nacrada is not independent then. We demand a clear statement of the reasons why a member of the National Council can be called off. So I'd like you to support this exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u213	for the 360 vote. The committee is not supported, rejected. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:31]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. Princely, 528th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u214	The bill, colleagues, proposes to amend the Law on Administrative Services, according to which the implementation of state regulation in the field of television and radio broadcasting is proposed to refer essentially to administrative services. The amendment proposes to remove such changes, since the services provided by the National Council are essentially administrative. In addition, the process of ensuring the independence of the Nacrada, as declared by the drafters of the bill, is in no way related to the exit of services provided by the Nacrad, under the special legislative act. And the Chief Legal Authority also supports that position. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u215	Thank you. I'm betting on the 528th Princely Amendment. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:28:39]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 536 revisions, Princely.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u216	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are now three positions of members of the Nacrada for which Parliament must be determined. The competition for these positions, as you recall, was announced more than a year ago, and the Supreme Council did not complete this competition. We didn't make it. Almost a year and a half later, information about candidates is in many ways out of date. And candidatures could be submitted by a larger number of subjects, i.e. factions could now submit their candidacy because they did not take advantage of that right. Therefore, it would be most appropriate to formally terminate the competition and declare a new one under the new rules of this law. My amendment suggests that. I'm asking the factions to back it up. Then you will submit your nominations to the members of the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u217	I'll bet you 536 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:51]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. 9th Amendment, Kulinich. Don't insist. Bobrowsky, insists, doesn't he? Skork. Gnatenko, 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u218	Deputies, present! I'm a member of the Supreme Council, Opposition Platform for Life, Gnatenko, 49th constituency. I want to ask this question for consideration. The law that has been adopted from the outset is already in conflict with the Constitution and the basic laws that are in force. And for what we have introduced a series of rights, starting with the first law that refers to the name of the law itself. And that's the question, I don't think it's necessary to accept it now at all, because it's a question that's not agreed with anyone. And what the Chief Expert Office gives us is that it doesn't match a number of laws that are currently in force in Ukraine at all. Please put this question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u219	I'll bet you 11 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:31:23]] For-48 The decision is not taken. 13 redundancies, Black. Don't insist. Suffritch? I can't see, Nestor Ivanovich. 13 Amendments. And the number's like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u220	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'm asking you to go back to the 12th amendment because not only Victor Black was a co-author, but so was I. You forgot about me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u221	We're back by 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u222	Thank you. Until 12 o'clock. My colleague Victor Black and I insist that this information be provided not only in the media, but also in the Voice of Ukraine. We are strengthening the role of control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in this case. And I hope that this amendment will be taken into account not only partially but fully, as proposed by the authors of the amendment. I mean, the Voice of Ukraine and other media. I don't think anyone will argue today that the Supreme Council has to control all the bodies that are created from its representatives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u223	It's number 12, right? It's partially accounted for. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:33:03]] For-75 Because she didn't get 226, she's turning down completely. Next line number 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u224	Thank you. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, the corresponding amendment is, on the one hand, somewhat editorial, on the other, highlighting the essence of this position. And I want to point out to all of us that we haven't been delegated to the National Council for Television and Radio for about two years. And today, unfortunately, this body is no longer a regulator, but it is a penal body that is persecuting journalists and others for the firm conviction of journalists and others, pursuing journalists, not on their professional grounds, but on their ideological principles, which are unacceptable. And what we have today has been removed from the appointment of members of the council is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u225	The vote is taken into account for the number 13 decree of the Shufric People's Deputy. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:34:39]] For-69
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u226	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 14 rules, Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u227	14 The amendment clearly specifies the corresponding term, without reference to the article, and the two - day term. I think it's clear and more correct. And today, I want to celebrate the role of the Nacratha, which has pursued three channels and not only, is being pursued today by almost every channel that disagrees with the vision of power, that's 112, and ZIK, and News One. Which, by the way, were groundless, illegal, as noted in the monitoring of the Office of Human Rights of the United Nations in Ukraine, and the relevant decision was taken by the Council of National Security and Defence, which was marked by the fact that the body was not independent. And only independent authorities can make decisions regarding the cessation of speech, and according to our legislation, the courts of Ukraine alone. I'm asking you to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u228	Thank you. I'm betting on the 14th Schuffritch vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:36:06]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Ducky. Lukashev. Please turn on the microphone. 16 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u229	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, one of the important functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the establishment of a function that envisions the participation of the Ukrainian Parliament in the formation of state institutions. One such institution is the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio. Today we have a sad situation with freedom of speech in Ukraine, and one guarantee of freedom of speech is the right of the Ukrainian Parliament to appoint its members to the National Council on Television and Radio. Therefore, I would like to support my amendment regarding the appointment of members of the Nakrad within 60 calendar days of the termination of the terms of office of a member or member of the Nakrad, who has ceased his own powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u230	I'm betting on the vote number 16. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:44]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 18th, Pawel.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u231	Please pass the word to Alexander Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u232	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u233	Thank you. Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, I would like to point out that we have systematically approached this bill because today we have a serious situation with freedom of speech in Ukraine. According to the international organization “Reporters Without Borders” last year, Ukraine has dropped 97 places, which means that the issues that we have today concern freedom of the press, freedom of speech and the regulator, which works in this direction, work improperly. Of course, we have essentially an observation, we're in our many amendments, and more than 354, that's the exact figure, we're going to give all of these observations. And I'd also like to pay attention, first of all, to what Nestor Shufrich has already announced, that we've noticed on numerous occasions that the content that's being retranslated by the power channels is not touching them. As soon as, for example, opposition TV channels 112, NewsOne and ZIK talk about rising gas prices, rising heating tariffs, immediately pre-planned testing. What kind of activity is this, Nakradi? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u234	The voting shall be amended as follows: Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:39:26]] Z-70. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u235	Coltunovich, 19th edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u236	Please hand over Yuri Alexiyovich, who will continue to follow the amendments, since this is not exactly my profession.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u237	Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u238	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, unfortunately we have entered into the consideration of this law without correcting a number of mistakes in preparing for the second reading. Yes, there are serious warnings from the Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that would have to be taken into account and corrected at a committee meeting. In addition, when we read the table for the second reading, we found that there was a discrepancy between individual positions and decisions that were approved on the committee, especially when the bill was partially counted and not included at all. Thus, when we consider this bill, which we already consciously understand, which has been tabled and set up to be considered in violation of the Rules, it may even serve as a basis for you, Mr. Head, not to sign it if it is approved. So I'm pointing out that we started to consider this bill with some.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u239	I'll bet you 19 votes. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:07]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 22 revisions. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u240	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Once again, I would like to refer the majority representatives to the National Council for Television and Radio. The explanation of why this is happening, physically not available, is simply missing. The Supreme Council for the Initiatives of Majority has moved away from control. Perhaps they are satisfied with the work of the members of the Nacradis, who were appointed forerunner, and who today pursue politics to destroy freedom of speech. This is a firm conviction of both journalists and experts themselves. And unfortunately, the Supreme Council is doing nothing to overcome this shameful trend. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u241	I'm betting on a vote of 22 people's deputies, Shufric. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:42:41.]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 23rd Amendment. Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u242	Please give the floor to Deputy Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u243	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u244	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, the point is that factions that do not belong to the majority should be able to present their candidates for the presentation of television and radio in Nacrad. And then, unfortunately, we have authority everywhere: The President gives his representatives, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine presents representatives, who are formed by the majority, who cooperate with the President. Therefore, by protecting the rights of the future opposition, we propose to leave the representation quota for factions who do not join the coalition. That is why we are now demonstrating our readiness to ensure the rights of future opposition to the future Supreme Councils of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u245	I'm betting on the 23rd Schuffritch vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:13]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Twenty-four, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u246	Thank you. The relevant amendment concerns improving the procedure for dealing with the issue of the Ukrainian Supreme Council representatives of the National Council on Television and Radio. And I insist once again on ensuring effective control over the activities of the National Council for Television and Radio. And so today it's happened that in fact the authorities are holding everyone on the hook, on the one hand, from the point of view of their assignment, because for more than three years they've been passing their mandate. On the other hand, criminal cases that are suspected of abuse of duty. And it's about stealing about 100 million dollars. So I now have a question: why are not representatives of the Supreme Council appointed, and why are those working from the previous Supreme Council performing all the demands of power and destroying freedom of speech to this day?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u247	I'm betting on the vote number 24. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:45:45.]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next line, Haircut.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u248	Thank you. You know, in recent years, it's very popular for all public authorities, on the commission to initiate the creation of certain structures that are formed by the number of international so-called experts, that sometimes it just comes to marasm when it's really about what we have, it turns out, there's no one to assign judges unless we consult with foreigners. But the most important organ such as the National Council for Television and Radio is, by the way, nothing is proposed in this direction. Although, for example, the independence of a certain body could really guarantee the establishment of a supervisory board of representatives of the international and European press federation, which, by the way, has been very critical of the closure of three opposition channels through sanctions. This is not because everyone understands that in no country in Europe, especially in such a country as Britain, censorship is unacceptable, even from a reference to national security can never be justified by the pressures of freedom of speech. Because then you're defending yourself if you're oppressing freedom of speech on the basis of the Donbas conflict? Then what are you fighting for, creating authoritarianism?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u249	I'm betting on the vote amendment number 26 of the People's Deputies of Volosin. Vote please, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[13:47:28]] For-49 The decision is not taken. 28 axles. People's MP Skork. You don't? Gnutenko, please, 28 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u250	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now witnessing the creation of a new structure that smells of corruption, and unfortunately, it is entirely subordinate to the President, who pays generously the wages of these future corruptionists and creates the top officials that we are about to start the fight with. Our right is to add the following terms: that the candidates are members of the National Council; and within 14 days of the end of the deadline for nominations for members of the National Council of Ukraine or the entire Ukrainian community of citizens in the field of media activities; and within 14 days of the end of the deadline for the nomination of members of the National Council of the Committee, the Committee has previously discussed the proposed candidates and has submitted appropriate submissions to the Supreme Council on each candidature with individual conclusions and recommendations. I ask you to put this question to the vote and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u251	The vote is amended as number 28 of the national MP of Gnatenka. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:49:09]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 29. National MP Shufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u252	Thank you, Madam Chairman. More specifically, it concerns the date clarification, not 14 days, but 14 working days. We think it's more valid. By the way, today, Ukraine's freedom of speech rating, set up by the esteemed organization "Reporters Without Borders", has dropped to 97th place. And that's with the green power. We hoped that when the press team came to power, they would protect their colleagues, and they turned out to be destroyed and seen the whole world. This is also seen by Reporters Without Borders, which is seen by the United Nations, which is what the OSCE sees. This is not only seen in the office of the President of Ukraine. That's why we insist that control be ensured at least by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u253	A vote is taken on amendment 29 of the Sufrich People’s Deputy. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:50:41]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 30. National MP Shufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u254	The amendment proposes to extend the deadline for consideration of the submission of candidates if a sufficient number of candidates have not been submitted during the statutory period. I can't understand, according to the law in force, once again I want to draw the attention of all our colleagues, we should have reassigned or appointed new representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the National Council on Television and Radio. If you are being set up today by those who are actually destroying freedom of speech, do not keep them on the hook, but reassign them to be green. Then it will be clear who is responsible for the shameful phenomenon that is now taking place in Ukraine with the suppression of freedom of speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u255	Amendment 30 of National MP Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:52:13]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 31. National MP Shufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u256	I ask for an amendment to be put to the vote. It refers to improving the procedure for consideration of candidates for office on the National Council for Television and Radio. And I want to go back to that disgraceful phenomenon, and once again, I want to emphasize and draw the attention of all of our colleagues, and who is watching us now, individual members of the National Television and Radio Council have been going through their mandates for over three years. I'm asking questions. Why does the Supreme Council of Ukraine not reassign them if the majority of them love them so much, or do not appoint new faces to the National Council? Has it happened that you can no longer find new flowers? Therefore, we insist that we not play by the various laws but that we do what is now in force and carry out our constitutional duties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u257	A vote is taken on amendment 31 of the Šufrich People’s Deputy. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:53:43]] For-69 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u258	Thank you. Amendment 32, national deputy Shufrich. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u259	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The question also relates to the discussion by the committee of the respective candidates as a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. And I am very sorry that by discussing and clarifying the new procedures, most of the people have withdrawn from fulfilling their obligations. And I can see how pleased the head of the profile committee is smiling, looking at the mobile phone, probably checking out the candidates for future candidates of the Ukrainian Supreme Council in Nacrad for television and radio. That is how you feel about your professional responsibilities. You phoned what the Supreme Council of Ukraine is supposed to do. I understand the cell phone is important, but our representatives in Nakrad are even more important. That is why I insist on this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u260	I'm betting on a vote of 32 amendments to the People's Deputies of Shufric. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:14]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 33. National Deputy Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u261	Thank you. I think everyone knows that democracy is a dictatorship of procedures, especially in societies like ours, where unfortunately even those who have come out of opposition, even outside politics, are very quickly starting to act as autocrats. Then the more complex the procedures, the more people involved, the different opinions, the different political powers to shape one or the other state decisions, the greater the guarantee of real freedom and impartiality. Today we have everything the other way around, that is, yesterday or, more precisely, today, the National Council, for example, cannot stop language licenses, it has to be done through court. With all the imperfections of our courts, this makes it equally difficult for the authorities to close those media that are critical and express independent views. On the contrary, we are now doing everything we can to simplify these or other drafts a procedure for closing independent media into the courts, which is completely unacceptable. We believe that the extension of powers, any increase in the powers of the national regulator.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u262	There is 33 amendments to the vote of the national deputy of Volosin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:47]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The following amendment 35. National Deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u263	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The amendment refers to the procedure for examining a candidate for high office as a member of the National Television and Radio Board in the event that the requirements for a candidate do not meet the requirements of existing legislation, an additional time shall be given to clarify the compliance with the relevant requirements. That's why we make this procedure more democratic and avoid any allegations of abuse in the selection of candidates. I believe that this issue should be transparent and objective and not touch on formalities, nor should it limit potential candidates to this highly esteemed position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u264	The 35th Amendment of the People’s Deputy Shufrich is put to the vote. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:58:12]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 36, National Deputy Volosyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u265	Thank you. My amendment is proposed in the second part of the second part of article 5 of the law before the words “in the event of inadequacy” are added to the phrase “for 7 days after the deadline for acceptance of proposals for membership (members) of the National Council”. Thus, it is a matter of clarifying the procedure for appointing members of this regulatory body. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u266	I bet on the vote 36 amendment of the People's Deputy Volosin Oleg Anatoliyovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:07]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 37. Oleg Anatolyovich Volosin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u267	Thank you. By the way, we do have, and I think a lot of people have multiple claims to the regulator and how it has functioned in recent years. But, indeed, it is shocking that the current authority, even with the actual puppet regulator, went in the fight against the opposition media through the sanctioning mechanism. This, in principle, surprised even those who had seen everything in Ukraine. I met yesterday with the Ambassador of one of the most influential countries in the European Union. He told me a story that after the approval of sanctions in February of the NPB against TV channels, he was contacted by the most influential embassy and was asked to support these sanctions. As you can see, by the way, the European Union did not essentially support it, but there were separate statements. So he then argued, said to his colleagues that, Your Honor, you will now support this, and tomorrow you will see what other sanctions will be put to sleep. And now you can see, both Americans and British are silent on sanctions, because they see that this is no longer a struggle for something high, but simply a punishment for those who do not please Greene and his Camarill. That's it. That's why you can see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u268	There is a vote of 37 amendments to the national deputy of Volosin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:00:42]] For-58 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 38. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u269	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! This amendment refers to the procedure for electing members of the National Council for Television and Radio. At the same time, I would like to point out to my colleagues that this composition of the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting, I mean the way it is represented by the Parliament of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during its work, which is more than seven years, has never been reported here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as provided for by legislation. In addition, when it comes specifically to this law, we also need to be aware — and why it is so desirable to approve it. The first reason is because they've made a huge number of mistakes over the last two years and now they need to be corrected. In fact, after passing the law of the previous year and a half ago on the Nacrad, they blocked the possibility of a competition. It's about the profession of the so-called turbine. And the second. The law is about the independence of the Nakrad. In fact, this law sets a different goal – to set the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u270	I'm betting on the vote for the 38th amendment of the Pavlovka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:02:17]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 49. Gnatenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u271	The honourable deputies present, indeed to this law, are a number of questions that do not conform to the Constitution. Therefore, the novelty of this law, according to which the President will be able to appoint a member of the National Council to vacant office, is not in line with the legal position of the Constitutional Court in general. Therefore, our amendment refers to the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine vote on the appointment of members of the National Council takes place simultaneously for all vacant positions of members of the National Council appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the event of the appropriate submission of a profile committee. Please put the matter to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u272	I'm betting on the 49th amendment of the People's Chamber of Gnatenka. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[14:03:34]] For-64 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 50. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u273	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The relevant amendment also applies to the procedure for discussion at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the respective candidates. And we insist that the proper procedure follow the principle of full discussion. Because we are not allowed to shorten the procedure today in the context of the overly principled issue of representation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the National Council on Television and Broadcasting, especially in the face of extreme pressure, in fact the destruction of the foundations of freedom of speech in Ukraine. Regrettably, there are not only us but also our partners in international organizations, in worlds and Europeans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u274	I'll bet you 50 Schuffritch's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:05:07]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. 51st, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u275	Thank you. I'm going to continue my speech. The amendment in question also refers to the procedure for considering a candidate for membership in the National Council for Television and Radio. And once again, I would like to call upon the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, that is, our Supreme Council, to carry out its constitutional obligations and to appoint our representatives to this higher body. Because what today’s composition does is an unprecedented example of pressure on freedom of speech. And considering that they were appointed representatives of the previous Supreme Council, no one wants to be politically responsible for this. And I am insisting that Ukrainians, especially journalists, know what political power is currently pressing on their right to speak. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u276	I'm betting on the 51st Schuffritch vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:06:34]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 54th, Schofrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u277	Thank you. Dear Head, Your Honor, in this amendment, we propose that the word "decision" be replaced by the word "decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." Because we can never know what circumstances may be at one time or another, and we did not limit the relevant document solely to the form of a decision. That's why we're making this amendment. I hope that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will finally be able to concentrate on updating the National Council on Television and Radio as required by both the law and the Constitution of Ukraine in part with regard to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u278	I'll bet you 54 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:08:01]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 57 straight, Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u279	Thank you. With this amendment, I propose that the proposed bill be removed by a committee of some kind, as I see it, from a strange position which foresees that the position of a member of the National Council is not considered vacant if its mandate ceases at the end of the deadline for the submission of proposals for new candidates. So this creates, as I believe, a legal uncertainty in order to preserve a comfortable person again. The competition will be held, and a person's mandate will be completed, so that these powers will be completed on the very last day of the competition and thus artificially on the hook to keep a man in charge. Thank you. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u280	Fifty-seven axles. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:09:18]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 58th. Voloshin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u281	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u282	The hairline is 58 degrees. Don't you insist? Next, Shufrich, 65th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u283	Thank you. Dear Chairman, we ask in the text to strengthen the role of the Supreme Council of Ukraine accordingly: not to limit the word "decision" to the broader term "decision". Today, once again, I want to draw our colleagues' attention to the extreme situation of freedom of speech in Ukraine. In fact, the OSCE Commissioner, the United Nations Commissioner for Human Rights, all point out that in Ukraine, with the closure of three channels, the principles of freedom of speech have actually been undermined and such actions are disturbing, and the Ukrainian authorities cannot close their eyes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u284	I'll bet you 65 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:11:11]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 66, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u285	This amendment is of a somewhat technical nature and in fact clarifies the drafting of a paragraph that deals with the question of voting for candidates put on the seat of a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. And I'm surprised that today, by making changes to the law itself, the majority are actually refusing to comply with the requirements of the current law on the appointment of new members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on television and radio or on the reassignment of active members. And then they would be held accountable, not by the previous coalition, but by the majority, and then we would know clearly who is responsible for the unprecedented steps and pressures of the National Council on Journalists today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u286	I'll bet you 66 votes, Schuffritch. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:12:40]] For-60 To-66. The decision is not taken. 67 law, Gnutenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u287	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, for being able to make your proposals on these rights. And number 67 is a little bit of a technical adjustment, maybe a little bit of a fifth, that's what we're going to do. That candidates for the National Council shall be submitted to the draft Supreme Council Regulation in the sequence defined by the previous rating vote, and to the number corresponding to the number of vacancies of members of the National Council appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask you to support and put this question to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u288	I'm betting on the 67th vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:13:43]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next order of business, 68.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u289	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Regrettably, number 68 is not supported by the committee either, but it is also very important in technical terms. And it's suggested on our side that part five of this revision be printed in the next edition. In particular: "The candidates for the National Council shall be submitted to the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree in the amount corresponding to the number of vacancies of members of the National Council appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine." I also ask you to support and put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u290	I'm betting on the 68th vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:14:46]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 69th, Volosin. Don't you insist? He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u291	He insists. This right is proposed in part five of article 5 of this bill to add the words, where the candidate is appointed to the National Council, to add the words: "by submitting a deputy faction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and (or) to all Ukrainian citizens' associations in the field of media activities." In order to avoid artificially defining this law, which associations of citizens in this area are right and wrong. Thank you. Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u292	69 readjustment. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:15:43]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Shufrich, 79th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u293	Thank you, Mr. Head. In this amendment, we propose to improve the procedure for rating voting when it comes to determining the final vote for the appointment of members of the Television Council and the radio. And again, I would like to point out that in Ukraine there is an unprecedented closure of television channels without a court decision, as established by the legislation in force, according to an organ that, according to the United Nations, is not independent. That is what international standards require today — decisions on the punishment of television channels can be made only by an independent body. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u294	I'm betting on the 79th amendment of the Shufric People's Deputy. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[14:17:25]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 80. Please, Gnutenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u295	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. We see that the adoption of this law systematically violates a series of laws that accompany the adoption of this law. And the position of the lawyers of the General Legal Office generally supports our opinion. And we insist that the text of the bill, which contains a number of provisions, is in general contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and does not adopt this law without our rights, because it does not systematically comply with the laws in force in general in Ukraine. And that's why we're proposing that 80 percent of the sixth should be excluded from this bill at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u296	The vote is voted on by the 80th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Gnatenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:18:39]] For-63
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u297	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line, Vlorosyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u298	Thank you. This is actually about enough weird novels trying to get into a sex bill. I want to remind you that today the head of the National Council is a woman. And I have big questions about objectivity and balance in Mrs. Gerasimük's adopted decisions, but there is no question that even without these additional standards in Ukraine, there is enough representation of fine sex representatives and they feel absolutely normal and can feel at ease if they are professionals and objective, to count on this regulator in the future. Moreover, there are many who run with the Istanbul Convention. Why does it say "sex" here? Then write "gender" that fits your ideologies. So what I'm suggesting is just to rule out these positions that are there, they include absolutely strange proposals in the process of selecting candidates for the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u299	No. 81. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:20:08]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Next line 82, Vlorosyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u300	Next, if colleagues simply read what today stands: "If such candidates are members of the same sex, the order in which they are put to the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall be determined by an additional rating vote on these candidates, which shall take place directly when voting on the appointment of members of the National Council." This is, frankly, a totally demeaning norm. I don't understand why there's even a question of the rating vote for the new members of the National Council with what sex they are. And once again, if you're talking about it, you want to ratify the Istanbul Convention, write to the Gender. It's just, in principle, like, you know, playing with this liberal fashion in the West, it totally looks unnatural in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u301	I'm betting on the 82nd vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:21:19]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Pavlenko, 84th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u302	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, this amendment is editorial, but it confirms, unfortunately, the bad tradition that begins to take shape in the Supreme Council of this calling. And tradition is about what we call laws one by one, and in fact they have the opposite goal and purpose. This law, I recall, is called to ensure the independence of the National Council for Television and Radio. If you look at the text of the bill itself, as well as the rights that have been supported, you can call it, for sure, a bill on the elimination of the independence of the National Council for Television and Radio. So I'm going to ask you to redefine this error. And I also call on my colleague for this bill just not to vote when it's time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u303	I'm betting on the vote number 84. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:22:45]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Eighty-five, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u304	The amendment also regulates issues related to the rating vote when determining the candidates of the National Council from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, I point out once again that the composition of the Supreme Council and our representatives, who represent the third call, have never been reported. And if we analyze their decisions, especially in recent times when they have been given extra time in office, we can see decisions directly related to usurping and controlling all independent media. What is costing the National Council’s decision to sanction television channels for direct broadcasts to the guests of these channels, and no sanctions in the legal field are applied to the guests themselves. And the channels are fined.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u305	I'll bet you 85 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:24:17]] For-63 The decision is not taken. The next one is 91. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u306	Thank you, Your Honor. I cannot help but agree with the speech of my colleague Yuri Pavlenko, who, by the way, is an expert on information policy. He has been working hard to ensure freedom of speech and to protect the rights of journalists. What do we have now? This law actually strengthens the penal capacity of the National Council, which is already infamous, and is in fact the subject of harsh criticism by the journalistic community. And I'm very curious about how the national MPs who vote for this law will then look into the eyes of journalists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u307	Ninety-one. Please identify and vote. [[14:25:38]] For-53 The decision is not taken. The next item is 92. Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u308	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Regrettably, number 92 is not supported by the committee either. But we insist that this amendment be considered and put into the voting room. Because it has an important challenge to adopt this law. And that's what's proposed in this direction. If the results of the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine do not result in the appointment of members of the National Council for all vacant positions of the National Council appointed by the Supreme Council, the entire appointment procedure shall be repeated, starting with the announcement by the Committee on the selection of candidates for the National Council. And candidates for the National Council, who took part in the previous election, have no right to participate in the re-election. I suggest we put this question to the vote and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u309	I'll bet you 92 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:26:55]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 98th, Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u310	Thank you. I propose this right in part seven of article 5 of the bill to add it after the words "if the results of the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are not the members of the National Council." (and so on) add the words "by filing MP factions in the Supreme Council and (or) all-Ukrainian citizens' associations in the field of media activities." In the same way, by making it possible for the public to participate in this process again. Thank you. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u311	I'm betting on the 98th vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:27:52]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 99, Coltunovich. The author of the amendment is Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u312	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm just having a little bit of trouble over a comparative table to a second reading. I see a number of amendments (e.g. 100, 102, 103, 104) are written in part. The problem is that the text there is different, completely different from the basic body of the law. And that's when we pay attention to why we insisted that those amendments that were partially taken into account, that we also consider them and vote them out as a whole. That's the first one. And now, essentially. Why is this bill voted out in such haste? Because Zelensky aims to usurp power finally in the country. In view of the fact that there were unconstitutional sanctions and sanctions imposed on independent information channels, we see today the President has gone on and he's trying to control the media in Ukraine -- internet portals, that's TV channels, that's printed editions, and so on. Hence, from this point of view, the concept of common sense even contravenes this law. We won't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u313	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, for the readout. I'll put her to the vote. 99th. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:29:31]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 108th. Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u314	Excuse me, there's 102, please. There is a procedure for informing the selection of a member of the NACRADA on television issues and broadcasting through the posting of information on the website and the printed media. Amendment, please, to Article 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u315	Thank you. Thank you for the comprehensive information on the 108. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:30:34]] For-60 Thank you. The decision is not taken. 109 correct, Ducky Alexander Stalinovich. Lukashev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u316	Dear Mr. Head, it's about 109 remedies that have been rejected. This is all in the context of the attitude toward freedom of speech, which has led to Ukraine’s being in a disgraceful 97th place in the world today. What is Ukraine’s European and European prospects when such a presumptuous oppression of freedom of speech is taking place? I therefore believe that this practice must be completed and put an end to the pressures of freedom of speech in Ukraine. Please put an order to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u317	I'll bet you 109 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:31:54]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. 113, Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u318	Thank you. 113. It is more technical there. So I propose to rename the article, just a more legal definition of adding: not just the appointment of members of the National Council of the President of Ukraine, but the appointment of members of the National Council of the President of Ukraine. But I would like to share one observation. As we all know, and I think everyone will see it tomorrow, a very important international event is being prepared in Geneva -- the meeting of the leaders of the two great nations. So here's the TV channel "First Independent," which was formed by a group of journalists from three TV channels who have been banned illegally by the President of Ukraine, they have no problem with accreditation and are now in Geneva and will participate, like all other media, in highlighting this very important event. But there's a problem with getting involved, for example, with the President or with the Supreme Council's towers. It turns out that Switzerland is a country that is really a model of freedom of speech, in this sense it just shows us how we are being disgraced.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u319	A vote is taken on amendment 113 of the People’s Deputy of Volosin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:33:27]] For-60 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 114. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u320	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I want to go back to the question that my colleague, Mr. Oleg Volosin, has just been talking about, namely, the fate of the Journalists of the First Independent, who are now actually representing themselves. They are the founders of the really first independent television channel in Ukraine, which has been on air for up to an hour. After that, the BAF letter, even before Nakrad, did not reach the National Security and Defence Council, but simply by letter from the BSS, they stopped talking to a television channel that was created by journalists themselves. This is a disgraceful case that today does not adorn Ukraine and demonstrate the fear of power from journalists, from reality, and from freedom of speech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u321	I'm betting on a vote of 114. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:34:53]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 117. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u322	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. This amendment also refers to improving the definition of persons who may already be appointed by the President of Ukraine as part of the National Television and Radio Board. And, of course, it's unfortunate that our president, who was a film producer literally two years ago, was actually a journalist, is now inciting power to suppress freedom of speech in Ukraine. This is clear evidence of what the decline of Ukraine to 97 places in the world, and this is already at the President-in-Office, on the ranking of freedom of speech, which is determined by the important organization "Cournalists Without Borders." Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u323	I'm betting on the 117th amendment of the Shufric People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:36:16]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 118, Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u324	Thank you. The next amendment is a very interesting and principle, and it urges all of us to vote for the absolute independence and non-involvement of candidates in the National Council for Television and Radio. That is, such persons should have high moral qualities, no conflict of interest with potential candidates, and no political party. Thank you for your attention. This is our vision of how to create a truly independent regulator, not what we have right now, which is totally dependent on the power of the Television and Radio Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u325	I'm betting on an amendment to the 118th People's Deputy Shufric. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:37:36]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next 119, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u326	Thank you. This amendment also refers to the improvement of the procedure for the appointment of candidates for the National Council for Television and Broadcasting. And once again, I would like to draw the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the ninth call on the absence of our representatives to the Supreme Council of the Ninth Assembly in Nacrad, because those who have been appointed by the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been going through their term for more than three years. It's abnormal, it's abnormal, it's immoral, if you want. Why, who's jamming the majority now that you can't split up there to appoint new members? Are you being punished by acting members? Then reassign them and be accountable to the journalists for their activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u327	I'm betting on the 119th Schuffritch vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:39:06]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Shufrich, 120th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u328	Of course, we know clearly what to do with active representatives of the Supreme Council and what to do with non-activities that are not able to work, but sit and represent the Supreme Council and are members of the National Council for Television and Radio. This is unacceptable, this is embarrassing to the Supreme Council when actually inactive members delegated by the Supreme Council make themselves active, even though they are de facto illegal and have been deprived of their powers for more than three years. And only a weak law, which was passed a year and a half ago, was passed because of a monotony that had not yet understood where the entrances and exits of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were located, voted without understanding what it was doing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u329	I'm betting on the 120th vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:40:33]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 123rd. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u330	Thank you, Mr. Head. As for 123 amendments, it is shown in a comparative table. I'd like to be brief enough. I would like to point out that then everyone who goes to both television and vote, and in general who will comment on the subject, will have a great understanding of what is going on. We have warned everyone in advance that we will insist on a few hundred amendments to the bill, because it is in many ways fundamental and will determine the further fate of the media centre in Ukraine. The government deliberately went into the draft law, you put it in the agenda, and you even failed the vote to push it to the next day. So that you don't get offended and ask questions, and why we go into this document for a few days. That's the first one. The other one. President Zelensky has just commented in one of the forums that grandmas are going out for money somewhere else, let's do everything we can to make them richer. So first he did everything to make them poorer: prices for gas raised, subsidies cut, everything else cut. This is what Zelensky does to make grandmas richer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u331	I'll bet you 123 votes, Coltunovich. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:42:07]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 27, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u332	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. By this amendment I propose and my colleague, Mrs. Natalia Slavicka, we offer Victor Black and I not to refer to the article in the law in force, but to make a clear definition of the term three days. This is more understandable and there will be no abuse of terms. And once again, I want to draw the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, on my cell phone, my colleague's head of the committee is looking at something. I would like you to initiate the question of reassignment or appointment of new representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the National Council on Television and Radio. For two years now, we can't actually choose them and it's the responsibility of power and monotonousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u333	I'm betting on a vote of 127 Schuffritch. Not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:42]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 128th, Schofrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u334	This amendment provides for a clarification of the position on the publication of information and rather than the words "in the media" of clarification, so that it is necessarily in the "Official publisher of Ukraine" and other media" and in the "Official publisher of Ukraine" this was a mandatory requirement. During such a scrupulous review of the bill, it would be desirable for the people’s deputies of Ukraine to take responsibility, first of all, for ignoring their responsibilities as members of the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, or for taking responsibility for the lawlessness that is currently taking place in the current Nacradia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u335	129. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:45:13]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 129, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u336	Thank you, Mr. Head. I give the floor to the co-author of the amendment to the national MP, Mrs. Slavicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u337	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u338	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. You know, listening to the debate on the amendments, I'd like to hear the committee's position and head of the committee periodically. And I'm surprised at why the authorities didn't think to eliminate the Nakrad, and their authority to hand over to the body that we actually have today as a regulator and censoring everyone and everything is the National Security and Defence Council. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u339	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u340	Dear colleagues, well, about a meaningful discussion. I'd like to point out that you're proposing a very fundamental change: not to write a website of the President of Ukraine, but to the web site of the President of Ukraine. Well, that, I think, is the abuse of parliamentary discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u341	You heard the committee's position. I'm betting on the vote number 129. The committee is not supported, although it is very important. Please identify and vote. [[14:46:52]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next line, Gnatenko, 130th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u342	Dear Chairman!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u343	Excuse me, please. 131st. Voloshin. I'm sorry. 130th count.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u344	Thank you. I propose by this permission to replace the words in part two of article 6 of the National Council Bill where the National Council of Ukraine is concerned with television issues, radionosis of the word and the signs of “in time as defined in part four of article 7 of this Act” with the words “in 90 days before the end of the five-year term of office of the relevant member(s) of the National Council”. This, in my opinion, will add a little bit more clarity to this situation. I would also like to point out and remind my distinguished colleagues that in February of this year, the European Parliament adopted a huge resolution on Ukraine. Among other things, there is a direct criticism of the state of affairs in the area of freedom of speech, and blacks in white call on the Ukrainian authorities to refrain from politically motivated pressure on speakers by withdrawing licenses. Because the withdrawal of licences is generally seen as censorship in 90 percent of European cases. You can't explain the closure of the TV channel by just some misinterpretation on its air, it's not possible in the same Britain.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u345	I'll bet you 131 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:48:35]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 134, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u346	I have a specific question for the reporter if he wants an open discussion. But first, I want to tell him that any initiative by the Ukrainian National Deputy is his constitutional right. And we exercise our right. Now, please explain that in paragraph 2 of Part One, why do you limit 21 days to 21 working days? We need to expand our capabilities, and you're limiting them. Please comment on your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u347	I'll bet you 134 votes. Please identify and vote. [[14:49:34]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 135th, Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u348	Thank you. I don't think there's much doubt in anyone's mind that it's in terms of freedom of speech that the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is the legislator of fashion. In the recent history of this country, fines were used only once by a regulator against one of the media. Then there were huge scandals, if you remember, a few years ago when journalists were involved in illegal listening to public officials. So they used special techniques to listen to government officials to get compromising materials and create a scandal. By the way, what some so - called journalists consider to be heroes in Ukraine. So, no media, not even those who spread ideas like Scotland's independence or Northern Ireland's independence, or other ideas that may displease some or most of the British society, are never censored or overly closed. Because freedom of speech, if it starts to restrict itself, disappears at all. Freedom of speech is or is not. Or you can say anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u349	I'll bet you 135 percent on the vote of Volosin. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[14:51:08]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 143, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u350	Thank you, Your Honor. I see that my colleague in the profile committee simply hid behind your broad back and refused to answer our questions. In this case, we also ask you to explain why, instead of 14 days, calendar days, we offer a suitably professional committee, we offer 14 working days. And I don't think we need to rush into these things. Please answer our question and, by the way, two of the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u351	143. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:52:11]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next line 144, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u352	But what's interesting is, how do the authorities say that we're not going to be able to say that we're not going to be able to have a transparent discussion of the candidates? Objectivity, transparency, non-involvement — that is what opposition demands today. I wonder why this initiative was rejected. I'd like to hear a glimpse of the head of the transport, sorry, heads of the information committee. Is he hiding behind the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine again? I understand how much to disperse here, and to answer the question of transparency, we demand and insist, because these processes have to be broadcast directly on the topic of discussion of potential candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u353	For a vote of 144, Schuffritch. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:53:34]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 145, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u354	Thank you. Dear Head, we may need to take a technical break because the reporter may have a voice problem. I'm not talking about the same faction. I'm talking about the physical condition of the reporter. He made it to some kind of replica that we didn't understand. And our amendment, by the way, refers to a very fundamental question that appropriate representatives and future members of the National Council for Television and Radiology should be assigned to the principle of gender equality. I think that, even if that's why it's enough for gentlemen to comment on why they're refusing to provide a gender principle when appointing the relevant members of the Nacradia committee on television and radio talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u355	145. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:55:07]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next issue is 146. Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u356	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, for being able to make your amendment. Amendment 146. And this right here raises the question of gender equality in the composition of the National Council. This is a very important issue for all countries, especially our country, which is now on the path of democratic development. And it is proposed that part three of this law be drafted as follows: "The President of Ukraine appoints a member of the National Council to a vacant seat of a candidate of the gender-sensitive National Council at the time of the vote and to give preference to members of the sex whose number is smaller." I ask the question of putting to the vote and supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u357	I'm betting on the 146th amendment of the Gnatenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:56:24]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 147th, Volosin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u358	I'm asking you to miss 147. 148th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u359	148th. Oleg Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u360	I have a question here. Because, in my opinion, well, it's my personal opinion, I'm here with some of my colleagues, and I'm arguing with a lot of colleagues, the vocabulary itself, that's the language of this bill, it predicts, if that was the wish of the authors to enjoy themselves, to get into a new trend, then it's a complete mix of gender and gender issues. I mean, I'm curious, Mr. Poturayev is a smart, experienced person, and he understands that when it comes to gender equality first, and then he goes on to only male and female representatives there, it goes against modern understanding, to the extreme extent, in the European Union, what is a gender that has more than 80? So you're actually creating obstacles to yourself later, if you want to ratify later on the same glorious Istanbul Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u361	I'm betting on the 148th amendment of the People's Deputy of Volosin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:57:51]] For-54
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u362	The decision is not taken. It's 151. Voloshin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u363	I propose this right in paragraph 2 of Part Two of this law before adding the words "in case of inadequacy" to the words "in the 7 days after the deadline for the adoption of proposals for candidates for membership of the National Council." So add a little bit more legal definition to that question. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u364	I'm betting on the 151st vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:58:39]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-15-m0.u365	Dear colleagues, 59 minutes, I think we can call the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Thank you, Your Honor. We'll continue tomorrow.
