ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u1	Honorable National Deputies, in response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You are presented with a list of questions for consideration at an extraordinary meeting. Dear colleagues, I'd like to prepare you for your electronic registration. And I remind you that after the start of the registration, you need to hold the sensor button, press the "Z" button and hold it until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Are you ready to register? Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the National Deputies to register. [[16:07:17]] There are 234 national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Honorable National MPs. Yeah, one second. Danilo Aleksandrovitch, break, right? Two factions called for a break with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Getmantsev, Danil Aleksandrovitch. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! We are meeting with you today for this special session on very important issues. These are financial issues, this is a thematic financial out-of-order session. What are they talking about? The first is the second stage of the major reform of the non-bank financial market. This reform was initiated by us in the 19th year with the adoption of the so-called "slip." Under this law, the National Financial Services Commission was abolished, and the respective powers were transferred to the National Bank of Ukraine and the National Commission of the Stock Market. So today we're proposing three laws, three bills from this package: this is an insurance bill, this is a loan union bill and a bill on financial companies and financial services. These are major systemic acts that are re-explaining legal regulation in the non-bank financial market. In addition, your consideration of the proposed Bill 5542-1 on amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the stability of the system of guaranteeing the investment of natural persons. This is a very important bill that we increase to 400,000 in the 22nd year and 600,000 in the 23rd year to guarantee the investment of individuals. We see that the deposit programs are being restored. We see that the volume of deposits is increasing despite the crisis. And this is a step that will further increase the population's confidence in the banking system that we have today is stable. And there are also two bills that apply to taxation of industrial parks, which are long too long ahead of business, that our state expects us to ensure the steady development of industrial parks in our state. These are tax bills amending the Tax Code and amending the Customs Code, which provide for a set of benefits to the respective parks. I am grateful for the President's initiative to hold our extraordinary session and ask all colleagues to support these bills with a green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u3	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich, for being so beautiful. Introduction is so wonderful in this next session. I'm sorry, this is a meeting, my God. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. First we have four questions: this is the second reading, we're going to start with Bill 5315. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, because some people came up, said they wouldn't insist, some people said they'd take turns. Who's going to insist on their amendments, please? I mean, it's just Mrs. Alona Skrum, four minutes, right? Both Shah and the High One will, yes, insist on their amendments? So I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy to the rostrum of Irina Valeriyev. Please, Irina Valerievna, you will answer if they do. Then, with your permission, I gave Mrs. Alona Skrum four minutes to speak instead of her amendments, and then you'll tell me what changes you're making. This is true of the People’s Deputies of the Magnificent and the Shahov. Please, Alona Shkrum, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u4	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Guys, first of all, let's talk about the good stuff. What's this bill about? This bill to update our insurance market and to update the rules that can be followed by both insurance companies and their liquidation and payment to citizens. Of course it's good. I want to thank both the committee and the committee. I know how many working groups have been made, how huge the number of axles has been, and how serious the work has been. The Insurance Act is very old, it was adopted 25 years ago. Of course, it had to be updated. But this work must be very responsible and filigree. Because we're wrong here, and we're wrong here in some ways, and we're going to make them not fit both international standards, and sometimes the requirements of our insurance companies and associations that we know are probably better than we are in this legislation, are also going to make the mistakes that we're going to have to correct. Unfortunately, you know that a lot of laws, and this week, we were correcting the mistakes we made. I have a huge number of comments from the Insurance Association, from different associations, from different companies, from different users of these services. I thank the committee for having supported a third of my rights. I made over 400 amendments. Those of you who know me know that I make so many amendments very rarely. A third of them were counted. But two thirds were still rejected, and I want to tell you a little bit about them as general information. And to warn you, perhaps, about the potential errors that we will have to correct if this bill is adopted in the second reading. In fact, all my amendments are often consistent with the observations and legal administration of the Supreme Council, which emphasizes that we have not been able to strike a balance on the committee between the powers of the National Bank and other laws of Ukraine and, for example, the Act on Shareholders in view of the fact that the National Bank cannot replace a judicial branch of power, cannot replace the Antimonopoly Committee and cannot replace a full regulator for all insurance companies, as they are regulated by the Act on Shareholders and other laws. Unfortunately, today, this principle of dividing branches of authority into legislative, executive, and judicial changes somewhat. And the National Bank here, to my conviction, and to the conviction of many insurers, is given a little more authority than it can possibly get under the Constitution. And this balance right here, unfortunately, could be broken. The Law Department itself says that today large conflicts and errors can be triggered by the fact that the legislation on shareholder associations and TT applies to insurers, taking into account the features of this law. So the legal rules of this law and the legal rules, the acts of the NBU are becoming higher than the specific legislation on the legal form of the organization of companies. Similarly, in cases of conflict with the law, there is a rule in this law that if there is a conflict between this law and all other laws, this law will be special in all other areas of financial services, company creation, company liquidation, company reorganization, etc. The order of supervision is also established by law and even by regulations called the legal acts of the NBA, this is article 16 of the draft. So the NBA here is not just a insurance regulator, but it's also replacing some of the Antimonopoly Committee on Concentrations, on various other changes in the corporate legal form of companies, and even the judicial branch of power a little bit. There are also many rules where this law may potentially conflict with a new law that will soon be passed on to shareholders. Because I'm pointing out that the second-reading committee supported the new Shareholder Society Act, and that's not what we're looking at.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Alona. Please, Reverend, just call the amendment number right away. Would you like some time?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u6	In our group of twelve amendments, four times I'll prove my position, let's put it to a vote. And three more minutes, please let the Shah speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u7	Okay, please call the amendment number.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u8	Regulation 244. Dear colleagues, to me, it's illogical, why can only the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or its authorized authorities be part of the insurance company? Indeed, we have a host of state enterprises that can also enter the insurance market. We now have Krašta buying a bank – also a risky activity, but it will be justified if it makes a profit, it will provide some new opportunities. Where necessary, we do not set limits, but where unnecessary, we build them. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 244 amendments. She's been rejected by the committee. The author insists on taking her into account, so please vote. [[16:17:40]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Please, Reverend, call the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u10	315th. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. I believe that two months is enough to decide on the outcome of the review of documents. We have everything in the country slowed down because of bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u11	I'm sorry, 315, did I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u12	Yes, it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u13	It's 315 Petrunjak, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u14	Excuse me, 1220.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u15	1220. Thank you. Please take your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u16	It is suggested that the number of violations that constitute a systematic pattern of violations be established. It's completely incomprehensible: for someone, systematically, it's two or more times, for someone, it's ten or a hundred. By what principle will we determine systematicness if legislation does not contain any tools? Subjective to the Eye? Obviously, this is not in line with the rule of law and will create a field for manipulation. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u17	Mr. Sergey, please tell me the number again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u18	1220.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u19	1220 is the revision of Getmantsev, it's counted. Mr. Sergey, that's impossible. Let's move on, I'll give Shah three minutes, just like you asked. Okay? Please, National MP Shahov 3 minutes instead of the 12 amendments that have been discussed. Thank you, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u20	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". 70 rights in three minutes, let's do five in the end. We support the bill, and it's a very good bill. I would like to add simply, lay down the word fear in the bathtub and fear in the people, and in the bath today power, in the warm bath, when people are cold. I've already spoken to you from the insurance stand today. People are demanding of us: and how do people in the Syrian zone who can live and lose their homes; how can they be insured today, 1 million 700,000 displaced people are plagued by families throughout the country, without jobs, heat, or kindergartens, or schools going abroad? Who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one Next. The insurance of miners who didn't get 2.5 billion dollars of wages on miner's day or New Year's, I don't think they're going to get that money. Next. Why in the Syrian zone, and that's Lugansk and the Donetsk region, they don't want to insure insurance companies at all. Let's focus on that. Next. The state suffered 22 billion dollars, and a temporary investigation commission found these violations, 22 billion dollars. No one was punished today. Perhaps the Ukrainian forests, 40 percent of which were burned in the Lugansk region, and 16 people who were burned alive did not receive compensation from their families today? The 800 homes left by the people were also not compensated today by the Luhansk Military Civil Administration. They gave money to their parents, and people who really lost their homes today also struggled with homes, friends, and no compensation. What about today is actually the situation on Donbassa. Nobody today is paying attention to the fact that there are no permanent explosions in Stanica, in Triochizbenza, either in Páznań, or in Złotom, or in Górski, nor do people get compensation. To whom can people turn, though, to provide for both property and life? People don't know where to go because they're not scared. What I've already said about this bill is that we're going to support it, we're going to support the insurance companies. But insurance companies also have to tap into power and get the authorities to help and guarantee if the insurance company insures and the state also supports them in these matters. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u21	Thank you. My dear colleagues, I understand, everyone who wanted to have a say in this matter. Thank you very much, a very constructive discussion, I think. So I ask the people's deputies to take their seats, and we move on to making decisions. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please take your seats, and let us move on to making a decision. I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Insurance Act (project registration number 5315). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:23:11]] For 235 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. The next bill, 5125, is a draft of the Credit Associations Act (second reading). I invite a member of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Victoria Alexandrovna Kinsburg, to the rostrum. Please, Victoria Alexandrovna. Dear colleagues, please tell me who will insist? I see, yes, Puziczuk Andri Viktorovich will insist, he has a number of important amendments. Nobody else. Then, we said, you have 25 amendments. And you will, won't you? Well, have you looked at the exact numbers so we don't get confused? Then I give it to Mr. Puziyczuk first. Your amendment: 2, 11, 22, 31, 34. Three minutes, please. And then we vote them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u22	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The question is: Does the Law on Credit Associations need to be modernized? Yes, of course he does. But does this bill, which you are presenting, solve the main problem with the activity of credit unions, which has been ignored by the State for years? I can tell you that he doesn't decide. Fellows, more than 2 million Ukrainians were affected by credit unions. That's 2 million Ukrainian families, that's 6 million voters. And today we need to think about how to protect their interests. Since 2010, they have been unable to recover their money as a result of the massive destruction of credit unions. Such a situation is the result not only of fraudulent acts by officials but also of violations of human rights by the State. There is no State to place the burden of responsibility on the investors themselves, what is being done today. The State's task is to ensure financial stability and security, and people have the right to rely on state protection. However, 2 million people cannot even go to court to defend their interests; they seek help from all: the President, the government, the deputies, the financial committee. Why? Because all the documents of the credit unions after the 2009 financial crisis were removed and found in law enforcement. Colleagues, we now have an opportunity to remedy this situation. And when you look at the committee, it's like there's understanding and support, and there's a commission for the committee to deal with the problems of restoring the activities of credit unions that are excluded from the register of financial institutions. However, the committee ignored Parliament’s decision. And I have a question for the reporter: why are you ignoring Parliament's decision? Why do you ignore the problems of more than 2 million Ukrainians? I ask you to explain your position, and explain it to the citizens -- two million Ukrainians who have believed you, who expect you to solve a longstanding problem. Please support my corrections. But first, an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u23	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Andrey. So we're going to make all these adjustments right now. Shall we put it to a vote? The answer, right? Please take the seat of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, the proposed system allows credit companies to use verified tools and at the same time improve the supervision of their use, and any necessary safeguards that will not allow such tools to be used inadvertently or with a bad sense. That's if we're talking at all. And if you want to talk about every correction, come on, call me that amendment and we'll discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u25	Thank you. I think we're going to vote. Isn't that right, Andry Viktorovich? Yes, dear fellows, then I'll make the amendments of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. I bet amendment 2. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:28:11]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 11 of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. Please identify and vote. She's been rejected by the committee. The Honorable Council System, 11 amendments, I put it to a vote, the Puzichuk People's Deputy. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:28:51]] For-39 Thank you. 39-yes. The decision is not taken. 22 Amendment of the Puzijchuk People’s Deputy. The committee is also dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[16:29:20]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Next amendment is 31 Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[16:29:44]] For-38 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment in this block is the 34th People's Deputy Puziyczuk. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:30:08]] For-35 The decision is not taken. The following amendments: 45, 60, 67, 88. Three minutes, please. Give me two minutes, Andry Viktorovich. Three, yeah? Give me three minutes. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u26	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. My previous question was why don't you return to the register of credit unions that have been excluded from the register of financial institutions so that citizens can appeal to the court to protect their interests? Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, once again. More than two million Ukrainians lost their money because of unprofessional government regulations. The government revoked the licenses of credit unions, and their documents were removed by law enforcement officials. The state has decided to help banks, not credit unions, and not Ukrainian citizens. More than two million people's contributions were not guaranteed as guaranteed for bank deposits; people took all the risks themselves. Sadly, though, we never received an explanation of the reasoned answer to this question: Why is there no provision at the end of the line for restoring the capacity of communities to refinance them? Because you understand very well that credit unions are an important part of the financial market, especially for those who live in villages and villages, not in large cities, and do not have full access to banking services. Why don't you like the "Paternity" mechanism? Let's work with the National Bank, with financial market experts, a new bill. Well, can you explain the position? You realize that without this, the project doesn't make any sense, and with this bill, you're openly ignoring the more than two million people for whom you and I have a responsibility that we have entrusted to us to represent their interests in the Ukrainian Parliament. Colleagues, let's send this bill back to read again, work it out. And my amendments please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, I'm putting four of these amendments to the Puzichuk People's Deputy. Amendment 45. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[16:32:57]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to the 60th Puzijchuk People's Deputy. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[16:33:18]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Next, 67th People's Deputy Puziychuk. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[16:33:39]] For-38 The decision is not taken. And the final in this block is the 88th Amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[16:34:01]] For-37 The decision is not taken. The next block of amendments is 188, 213, 258, 322, 404. Three minutes, Andrew Puziyczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u28	Thank you. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear citizens, the Fatherland faction has consistently defended your interests. Unfortunately, we don't see it from the majority -- there's no protection for your interests today. And I got a call from the All-U.S. Army. The applicants ask not to support the project and send it for further processing. They ask that credit unions and their members be properly protected. I quote that reference. " bill 5125 definitively destroys the root of a successful system of credit cooperation. Over the past 2 years, the National Bank of Ukraine has not only taken any steps to prevent bankruptcy of credit unions, but also blocked any attempts by the public, professional associations and the organizations of fraudulent credit card companies aimed at regulatory resolution of the problem." Fellows, once again, this bill doesn't just solve problems -- we're deepening problems. Pressure, coercion and government regulation are different things. The state must create the right conditions for a credit cooperative rather than destroying credit unions. I've already mentioned that we need to restore the rights of those who lost their savings starting in 2010. There's not a word in the project about these people. But that is not all. Credit unions will continue to be declared insolvent and their members will lose their savings. Colleagues, I insist that we work out this bill. This is our responsibility with you. It should be sent for rereading. Thank you. Please support the revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u29	Thank you. I am now also making these five amendments in turn. 188. Amendment of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. She was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:36:43]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 213 of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:37:08]] For-38 The decision is not taken. The next 258 amendment of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:37:29]] For-37 The decision is not taken. 332 amendment of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[16:37:50]] For-37 The decision is not taken. And the final in this block is the 404 amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[16:38:18]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Andrew Viktorovich's pre-conclusion block. Please correct 553, 564, 697, 742 and 743. Instead, three minutes. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u30	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, commented on this bill on 24 pages. True, the committee then worked on itself, and the comments became a little less: 19 sheets. In doing so, the authorities point to its inadequacy, the inadequacy of the bill immediately followed by the following articles of the Constitution: 13, 19 and 92. This bill violates the Constitution of Ukraine. Listen carefully. Instead, this project confers excessive discretion on the National Bank, and in fact, the credit cooperation system is fully switched to manual control. It's not about resuscitating credit companies, it's a mistake that you have to answer for. Colleagues, listen, since 2010, hundreds of credit unions have been destroyed in Ukraine, over 2 million of their members have been deceived and lost. This question is not closed because human rights are not restored. They didn't get their blood money. I don't understand, it's a mistake for a committee to say at a committee meeting during its consideration of the bill, and I quote from the transcript, "We know about the issues of credit unions. The citizens of these credit unions come to me, and I can't really hear them without tears." Is it really a human tragedy, or is it a conscious position, which is that the rights of people you can't hear without tears, you're not going to recover? I insist that this bill should be returned to the committee for further work. Colleagues, this is our responsibility to more than 2 million Ukrainians. And please support my corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u31	Thank you. Mr. Andrew, 553 wasn't yours. That's why I'm not putting her to the vote. It's an amendment to Getmantsev, and it's counted. But everyone else is yours. So I'll just put them on. I'm putting to the vote 564 the amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee doesn't count, it's rejected. Please identify and vote. [[16:41:28]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Next up, 697th People's Deputy Puziychuk. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. 697. Please identify and vote. [[16:41:57]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 742 of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[16:42:20]] For-29 The decision is not taken. And 743rd People's Deputy Puziyczuk. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[16:42:41.]] For-34 The decision is not taken. And the finishing block. He's still got the final block. The closing block is the amendments that I was written: 750, 801, 865, 869. Three minutes, Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u32	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear citizens, in 2019, when you went to the elections and voted for the majority, for the "ministers of the people," you were hoping and you had the hope that something would really change in the country, that really "ministers of the people" would serve the people and protect your interests. What Is Happening to the Fact? Two million families today will finally lose their chance and the opportunity to recover their money. And that's a big mistake that we can right now. I'm addressing each and every one of you, and now we have a real opportunity to fix a situation that hasn't been resolved in 10 years. Of course, the issue of credit unions is very painful for Ukrainians. So we have to adopt a law so that there's no financial speculation, so that people don't cheat or pull money out of it, so there's no fraud like 10 years ago, so that no one can make money in another person's trouble. We have to adopt a law to really solve more than 2 million Ukrainian families. We are obliged to adopt a law that would allow credit unions to work in a clear and clearly regulated legislative field. Otherwise, the adoption of the new Credit Association Act doesn't make any sense. Let's re-read this bill and work together on its position. Let's not ignore the people who chose us here to protect their interests. Remember who voted for you, what you promised. Don't disappoint people any more. You see a steep decline in your rating, and this is the result of your actions, because you forget your promises, you forget about people. Let's send this law to read again. And my amendments please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u33	Thank you. I'll put to the vote the amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputies in turn. Amendment 750. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:45:37]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 801 of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:45:57]] For-28 The decision is not taken. The next 865 amendment of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:46:18]] For-28 The decision is not taken. And the final order of the Puzichuk People's Deputy is 869. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:46:41]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've been through a lot of repairs. Who wanted to.? Godfare, isn't it? Please, the national deputy of Allahverdiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, I ask you to consider the mistakenly rejected proposal of 280, which must be taken into account in order to avoid duplication in the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u35	280 amendments, the national deputy of Allahverd. "Party of the second article." Please take the seat of the committee. Let's listen to the committee's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u36	Indeed, this amendment was mistakenly rejected, and a technical error occurred, but the committee suggests that it be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u37	Look, I'll read the substance of the amendment. "Part Two of Section V of Section 19 "The Credit Management System" is considered to be part of the second article of Section V of Section 18 on Credit Management, which is to be ruled out." [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand there was an error in the numbering. I'm betting on the 280th amendment of the national MP of Allahverdi. She explained the point, so please support and vote. [[16:48:27]] For 222 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Stop! Dear colleagues, the system is smoking. Dear colleagues, let's take a break for 15 minutes. Figure out why the row didn't work and why the system was smoking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u38	Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. The honourable national deputies, taking into account this situation that took place in the hall, are offered a signal vote. There's an offer to make a signal vote now, see if all the remote controls are working. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready? Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, take your seats, we're about to make a signal vote to see if the system works. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I would like to make a signal vote to accept the proposal in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments to the draft Law on Credit Associations. Ready to vote? Signal vote, I emphasize again. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[17:03:27]] For 193 Who hasn't worked, please tell me? Please proceed with the procedure, Ironman.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, today many of the laws that our committee, representing various factions, has worked there not only for a few months but for years. It's very important to accept them, but it looks like there's a high risk of losing them today. It's very difficult to be in the hall right now, especially in the coalition sector, where really, after that remote smell situation, it's still standing. I have a constructive offer. It is sad that such a situation has taken place, and it is sad that not all colleagues are at work. But let's close the next session now and move these questions to the nearest opportunity when we can accept them. This will be the only way out of this, so that we don't lose our laws, frankly, with respect to our colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u40	Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko, then Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko, one minute and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I really, really want only to support my colleague. It's a venerable predestination. The honourable Presidium, after one of the national deputies' ballots had been set on fire, unfortunately, is still in the session room. It's very hard to find, it's hard to breathe, and it's either a technical break, or it's really hard to put a dot in today's session, close it, and move it to the next sessional week, because it's really uncomfortable today. And I think there's such a suffocation in the hall. We ask you to think about it and maybe close today's session, and not tomorrow, of course, move it, but for the next sessional week, put these bills in order of the day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u42	Please, Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko. And then I'm going to put out some suggestions that have been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u43	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear Head, I support my colleagues. See, these laws were made by deputies, worked on committees. If you've just seen 193 deputies on board, we have the opportunity to lose those laws. I think we need to respect the work of the National Deputies and the Committee, and the more they do, the more you see how the relevant bill is well-proportioned from the rostrum. That's the first one. And the second is, of course, our health. Well, there was an extraordinary situation when the remote was on fire. Now you can't breathe in the back. I think it would be fair if we just closed up the technical problem and moved on to the next plenary meeting to report. And so we will save the laws and work of those national deputies who worked. So, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I also make an offer in connection with the inability to breathe.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I fully support this proposal, but there is one nuance: we have to make a decision on this bill because we are in it. Dear colleagues, how do you see us vote anyway? If we vote, we'll support -- that's good, if we don't, we'll send in the second and then we'll close up. We can't break the law. You got it? Don't you agree, Danilo Alexandrovich? There's no other option. There's an offer. Come on, everybody said how much our colleagues worked on this bill, let's still support them, if we can, vote in favour of this law, and then we'll close the sessions. Okay? Dear colleagues, then, with your permission, please take your seats so that someone doesn't run now, doesn't run with coffee, tea, it doesn't matter. I put to the vote a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments the draft Credit Associations Act (project registration number 5125). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, once again. I propose to adopt a draft of the Credit Associations Act (project registration number 5125) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments. Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[17:08:54]] For 223 Dear colleagues, then I propose to re-read this bill - the draft Law on Credit Associations (registration number 5125). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:09:27]] For 239.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u45	To 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am making an offer today to close our extraordinary plenary session in connection with the situation that has taken place and the impossibility of actual and physical presence in the hall. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[17:10:03]] For 205 Show me the factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u46	Let me put it then. It's a procedural decision, you can put it again. But then the request to concentrate, perhaps, on a common thought. I would like to propose that we conclude an extraordinary plenary meeting in connection with circumstances that make it impossible for the members to be physically present in the Hall, as we have to guarantee the safety of the national deputies as presiding officers in the meeting. I'll bet you a vote. Please support. [[17:11:27]] For 240 Thank you. 240. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m1.u47	The next session is closed. Thank you, colleagues.
