ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for registration. In response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You are presented with a list of questions for consideration at an extraordinary meeting. People's deputies are requested to prepare for registration. I'm reminding you, registration takes place by pressing the green button on the first left, the pro button. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[16:01:21]] There are 190 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Stryharski? No, come out then, come out. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Sergey Jaroslavovich Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u2	Dear Ukrainians, the MP's Party for the Future and Fatherland asked for three minutes to remind us of a topic that was very hot yesterday under the walls of the Supreme Council. Here came a large number of people who gave the nation so much — the best years of their lives, some health, some just a tense period of their work. And everything they asked us, the Supreme Council, to amend the Ukrainian law in force, which took hundreds of thousands of veterans of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the State Border Service, the IMF, intelligence and other force structures, the right to a legitimate pension. This right was taken from them by the Supreme Council of the past vocation, when in 16 years it gave the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine the opportunity to manually determine who and what pension they would receive, regardless of the conditions in which these people worked. And these people served, I remind you, respected colleagues, not in power, they served the Ukrainian people. Last December our Parliament voted in favour of a law that should have been put back on second reading and voted on the basis. Which returns pensions for all pensioners of the power structures, as it was supposed to be by law, not by concept. What happened as a result, I'll explain it to you. Whoever retires now gets on average three times as much pension as the one who retired by the age of 16. And those who served until the 16th year, what do they not do? Do their hands not grow out of that place or their legs? And we could, as national MPs, be very easy to decide. When he first went out to the people, he listened to them. When they met them, they would explain their position. There was no such thing as not to talk to these people and agree on a construct. Instead, they received tear gas from those people who today think that they will forever be members of the National Police, that they will never become pensioners. And that's what my colleague Mikhailo Cimbaluk was talking about yesterday from the rostrum of this Parliamentary. But to speak, we need to take and vote on the second reading of this bill. It's very easy to do. We need to hold or hold an emergency session, which is what Anton Polakov and Michael Czymbaluk are today referring to as Head of the Supreme Council through SEDO. You want it to be with the 23rd Crimson Platform -- let it be then, you don't want August 23 -- let it be the first session of September. It doesn't really matter when, but it has to be done once and for all, we don't have people in the second class who get better pensions and worse, we don't have any.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u3	There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Black-Morted Artem Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u4	Thank you, Mr. Head. People of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! Mr. Leschenko and the Prime Minister, you are now approached by the members of the Agrarian Committee, the committee that has developed the agrarian reform that you are now proud of in all forums, the law that has given people the opportunity to rule over the land to the Ukrainian people, and the law that has passed the land to the communities. Would you please tell me what you've done besides just declare these merits? And I'm going to answer that question on behalf of the entire agrarian committee. On December 28, 2020, the Cabinet reversed the decision to reorganize the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, and the government has not yet taken steps to restore the full function of the Ministry of Agriculture. This is the return of all CEVs and state-owned enterprises, which in the present case are a tool for the implementation of the relevant policy, which in turn makes it impossible to provide a professional ministry with its full scope. Moreover, the current position of the Ministry of Agriculture provides for the creation and implementation of State agricultural policy, including in the area of agriculture, on food security. An analysis of the powers of the State Food Service shows that the majority of the powers of the Ministry – 80 percent – relate to the area of competence of the Ministry of Agriculture. Where is the State Service now? In Mineconomy, in a department that doesn't have functions to coordinate this department. Also, national MPs, today at the next session, you will be presented with Law 3091, which puts the last "brown nail" in the "domestic" of fish farming, which takes away the functions of coordinating fish farming in their farming activities. For 10 years, no one's touched the Fisheries Act, and now you're just tearing it apart and tearing it apart. What else I'd like to add. It is to turn to Mr. Abramowski and his faithful subjects, Horeb. We're members of the agrarian committee. Maybe a little bit of us, but we're in the flesh. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u5	Thank you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, there is no motive for the performance. It's not a procedure, dear colleagues. Please return to your consideration of the matter. You are invited to consider the draft Law on the Implementation of Public Electronic Services from Registration and the Declaration of Residence in Ukraine (Registration No. 5463). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:09:00]] For 217 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kryatko Mikhailo Valeriyovich, is invited to attend. And, dear colleagues, while the matter is under consideration, please proceed to the rostrum for a moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u6	I bring to your attention the draft Ukrainian Law on the Implementation of Public Electronic Services from Registration and Declaration of Residence in Ukraine. The draft law provides for the introduction of electronic registration of residences, the cancellation of the passport stamp of a Ukrainian citizen, the closure of registers of regional communities in electronic form, and their integration with the information system of the State Migration Service, and the elimination of the linkage of retirement from the place of residence. In order to achieve the goal, the bill establishes rules for the declaration of adult and child residence online through the sole national web portal "Dia". Instead of visiting three institutions, ranging from 3 to 30 days, there will be 10 minutes to complete the application itself and one time to process it. Once the law is passed, all data on the registered residence will be verified and correct. And it's because of these standards that registration of a place of residence online without any organ being visited will be possible for everyone. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u7	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ustinovy Aleksandri Jurijovni, the author of the alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, you will now vote for a very important bill. This bill is actually about registration, unlike the old prescriptions that we've all been talking about. What makes the basic bill different from the alternative bill and mine. It is that an alternative bill actually introduces, not a pen and a hundred stacks of documents, but a real declaration where a person lives. Because now, in order to be able to say that I live in Kiev, for example, behind a residence like this, although I'm prescribed somewhere in Dnipropetrovsk, Winnitz or other town, you have to give the papers, you have to give consent to the owner of the apartment that lets you say that you live in it. In fact, the option I'm proposing is already working for one and a half million displaced people. When you don't have to give a bunch of documents and permission to own that you live in an apartment. You simply provide the documents you live at this address. A person, if he does not confirm, can send information and correct this information during the period of time. But you can quietly declare your place of residence. Now, 7 million people are actually displaced people who live at the wrong address that they actually live at. Now we're all afraid that people will start registering, giving us where they want to live. I'm going to tell you a terrible secret: we have at any address right now, even in your apartment, any firm, that is, a legal person. You've seen a lot of registered firms? You know, there is no such problem. Similarly, this problem will not exist if people are allowed to simply declare their place of residence. This will greatly simplify their lives. Regrettably, most of the bills do not contain this norm. The basic bill simply translates it into an electronic so-called action, but it does not allow the person to declare where he lives. A person needs to give consent, a person will need to provide further documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u9	The word is given to the head of the Committee on Human Rights to Lubincz Dmitry Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u10	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Inoccupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting on 16 June reviewed the draft Law on the Implementation of Public Electronic Services from Registration and the Declaration of Residence in Ukraine (No. 5463 and Alternative 5463-1), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies. First of all, I want to make a difference between the two bills. The first bill allows you to do the most required service, the very service of registration to be done in full electronic form, including through the "Dia" plugin. But the basic bill provides, in fact, for the owner to give his permission to have a person prescribed. And we think it's perfectly logical. The alternative bill does not, in fact, provide for the granting of such permission. Therefore, the alternative bill is supported by the National Migration Service of Ukraine, several committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ukraine’s State Pension Fund does not support both bills. Our decision to support the basic bill, as discussed in the first reading, is to adopt an alternative bill and give the subjects the right of legislative initiative back to work. Therefore, honourable national MPs, please support the committee's decision and vote in favour of Bill 5463. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss whether we can cross.? There's a need. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna, excuse me, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u12	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u13	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a rare case where the Supreme Council of Ukraine discusses extremely important issues, human rights, human rights, education, administrative services, medical services. And in fact, as co-author with colleagues of the alternative bill, we ask that we support this very option because we have studied the experience of European countries where there is really no such post-Radians registration system and the principle of reporting is in place when a citizen informs the state where he resides and actually gets all of the same services that can be obtained in Ukraine today only by means of a penitential system. It seems to us that this is, indeed, a very important standard, taking into account the 1.5 million migrants who are now in the state of Ukraine as a result of the Russian occupation. And our bill also foresees a system of protection for owners, such as apartments from the unkind, maybe owners, so that there is no abuse. But our bill provides for a simplified registration procedure based on a report, and also a mechanism to protect the owners of housing rights, as I say. This is a very important bill that brings Ukraine closer to civilized countries because registration remains a post-Radians system. And we ask our colleagues to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u15	Wonderful, Irina Volodymyr. Thank you for the positive speech. The word is Rudik Kiri Alexandrovni, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u16	The word Alexandri Ustinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u17	Please, National Deputy Ustinova Alexandre.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, once again, I want to point out that now there are huge numbers of people, and this is about 7 million people who need a normal form of registration, looking at this vote. People who can't send their children to school right now, send their children to kindergarten because they're actually, as our country thinks, living in their own home. And they have to live there and send children where they have their place of residence. What the alternative bill is proposing is a report to the State Migration Service that a person is actually living at the address where he lives. Don't listen, please, to the scary stuff they're trying to tell us right now that you can't sell an apartment, because there's going to be a kid living there. We're not talking about a pen, we're talking about registration. 1.5 million people already live like this. In the elections, the local elections that were last held, you saw how this system worked when people came and could. Only according to the report could they vote in favour of a place where they actually live sometimes for years. So I ask you very much to support an alternative bill. This is what the President promised when he said we would change the registration system in Ukraine. When it is as it is in European countries: when you report to the state where you live, you have the right to use services at your place of residence, not at your place of registration. If you support the basic bill, it'll be funk and populism, and you'll still have to run and look for a huge number of documents, permission from owners, and so on, to actually be able to get those services from the state at the place of residence that are not available to people right now. It's an extremely important bill because people are now limited and unable to use the services of the state. Please support an alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u19	The word is given to the People's Deputy Boris Viktorovich. Please, Mrs. Larissa, Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, Larissa Bilozer, Deputy Group "Trust", 15th constituency. In fact, it's really this bill not about the declarative model of residence, the registration of residence. The bill seems to be about the introduction of a declaration of place of residence, but it doesn't essentially introduce this model, it just introduces a new declaration term. A meaningful mechanism was, that is to say, to provide documents, to confirm ownership, to use housing, and to obtain the owner’s consent in advance. So it's just not clear why this is such a huge law with a new terminology, with two parallel mechanisms and declarations and registrations for individual types of housing. And for registration, online registration, it would probably be appropriate to make a point of change to the current Law on Free Circumstances and Freedom of Movement. It's hard to be sure of anything here, but in fact, we're probably going to be making changes in Parliament, working on it. And there's not much damage in this bill, it's necessary, but it's really worth working on. And the new terminology can really contribute to an awareness of this sphere and in the longer term, it can be a thrust of real reform of penance, of reality, and the transition to a really declarative model when society matures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u21	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Krulk Ivan Ivanovich, faction of "The Fatherland". Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction has carefully considered this bill. And I'm going to the authors and the Cabinet of Ministers, and 70 percent of those who change the place of registration are military bound. If you don't know it and you haven't done it, you can't do anything electronically. If this is a lineup, you will be required to appear in an army unit and, within three acceptable days, to stand a multi - mile [multimeter] queue to register and provide a new registration address. Only after that will you be granted permission and will you be able to continue to register at your new residence. This is the case with the movers, this is the case with those who change the place of registration. If you're a military officer, the problem is a little easier, it's about an hour's turn. So without solving this issue, the problems that our colleagues have faced before are a key issue. 70 percent of the population of men, women who are under military obligation, will not be able to use electronic services. So without solving this question, it's impossible to continue with any change. So please solve this first question, and then decide who does not apply. Some movers, some internally displaced persons, or citizens who just change the place of registration. So this law is not bad, it needs to be worked out, so that it can start working, you have to make these proposals right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, who else does? Please, Dmitri Valeriovich Lubinets. Someone else wants to if we don't move on to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u24	My colleagues, once again, I am addressing you, indeed, Mrs. Alexander, with all due respect, the basic bill of the existing procedure is made electronically, and you don't have to say that the basic bill requires thousands of papers again. It doesn't, it's a procedure right now, it's completely electronic. All of it. The only difference between the main and the alternative is that we require the same electronic permission from the owner of the apartment, and you don't require it. But then, when anyone's assigned to the room, the owner himself has to change that. That's the first remark. And speaking to colleagues from Fatherland. We will correct the second reading so that the collection of military bills will also take place electronically, and people should not stand in line. So please support the basic bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u25	I'm sorry. I didn't hear how negative they called you, in a negative way. What did you say? Dear friends, let's get to the vote, if you don't mind. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! I'm sorry, I'm out of my mind. Please prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute! They say there was no last name, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not in the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u26	Dear colleagues! Come on. It's just gone by the name! Let's not manipulate. If it's not in the decision of the 116th Committee, if it's not heard from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we can't put it to a vote. Sergei Vladislavovich, you know that, let's not tell colleagues here. That's impossible. Or let the committee make a decision. That's right. [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! Everybody's on, the Voice is on. What line? I didn't hear. I'll bet you a vote. You called? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Implementation of Public Electronic Services from Registration and the Declaration of Residence in Ukraine (Registration No. 5463). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:27:26]] For 251 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on State Environmental Control (Re-First Reading) (Registration No 3091). Ready to vote? I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:28:01]] For 238. Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Marikowski Alexander Valeriyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Today, we are considering with you one of the highest-priority eco-committee bills. We know in 2021 that we haven't had legislation in the field of environmental control in 30 years. Each of us knows about the problems of atmospheric air pollution by businesses, our rivers and waterways, illegal garbage dumps, the burning of ecosystems, poaching, and hundreds of other issues related to nature and ecology. But no, not now, not now, not now, not now, not now, not 10 or 15 years ago, these problems have not been solved. The reason for this is inefficient state environmental control. Because this body has such responsibilities and responsibilities, and the responsibility of enterprises for which environmental issues cannot in principle be resolved. So on the committee, we have drafted this bill 3091 to make an effective environmental control body, to make a new environmental inspection, to eliminate the previous one, and to make a new one. With new competitive wages, full reporting and registration of each step in the environmental inspector electronic system. Also, the environmental inspector will wear a video camera to fix it all the time. Let's do what we haven't done in 30 years, and we'll take this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u28	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environment by Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again that we are looking at today's amended bill on state environmental control. This bill is an opportunity to create, by its very essence, tasks and functions, a new government environmental control body. This is an opportunity to normalize new instruments for State environmental control, to ensure a clear distribution of powers and resources from government control authorities. Dear colleagues, as head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use, I would like to thank the National Deputies and the Committee of the Supreme Council on Anti-Corruption Policy, Agriculture Policy and Land Policy, the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure for the professional assistance given to our committee in the drafting of the bill on State Environmental Control for re-first reading. These committees made their comments. All the comments were taken into account. What is evident from the conclusion now on the Web site of the Supreme Council? As a committee, we consider it appropriate to take these comments into account. And these proposals, comments will be made on a comparative table by the committee's national deputies when preparing the bill for second reading. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environment proposes to the Supreme Council a draft Law on State Environmental Control to be adopted as a basis. I'd like to support you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u30	Thank you, Oleg Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Then I ask you to register factions and groups: two in favour, two in opposition. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u31	No one will tell such a wonderful story about this bill as Lesia Vasilenko. Please give her your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u32	Please, we are looking forward to a wonderful report from Mrs. Lesi Vasilko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for the next few hours, we will finally dedicate ourselves to environmental bills. But no matter how many environmental laws we pass in this room, everything will ultimately depend on the state's ability to control their implementation. And today this ability is objectively lacking. So we have a situation where, for example, at the Poninkow paper factory, water sampling at the point of direct discharge into the Gomorrah River, inspectors can only take it when it's convenient to run this factory, not when there's actually the biggest waste dumps in the river. Or when proper checks are carried out and responses are made to illegal woodcuts, as is the case in the forests of the Shastkin and Krolewetsk communities in the Suma region, including because inspectors are intimidated by banal threats. Under such circumstances, it is impossible to prove the perpetrators ’ guilt, and hundreds of similar cases do not even reach the courts. For the situation to change, a qualitatively new approach to environmental law enforcement is needed. This is what the revised version of Law 3091 proposes. But even though this is version three, there are still things in this text that need work. In particular, safeguards should be installed for possible abuses by inspectors with their new powers. The role of eco-inspections should be limited in carrying out checks on ships, especially commercial vessels that have nothing to do with ecology or natural resources. And we need to clarify the order of the tests. Documents that can be asked by inspectors. And the order of fines for businesses. All these and other needed clarifications are now recorded in the conclusion of the environmental committee as being made for second reading. And only in view of this willingness to work on the mistakes of the Voice faction can the bill support the first reading. And it highlights the need for our joint careful revision of this draft law for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u34	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ljuboti Dmitry Valeriyovich, "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u35	Pass the word to Marikovski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u36	Please, National Deputy Marikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, we have had to stand before you twice today and ask you very much. 3091 were supported by European parliamentarians, for which was an appropriate reference to Mr. Razumkov and to our committee. The bill has also been finalized. There are changes that have allowed him to come to the conclusion of the anticorruption committee that he does not have any corruption risks. In fact, the law’s legal counsel was quite effective. In public discussion. In a public field. And we were able at this point before the first reading, to take the most notice. Of course, there are other comments that have remained with fellow parliamentarians. But I know exactly what we can guarantee that we will actively cooperate with you. And all of these remarks are amended and make the right decisions so that we, like a country, get quality environmental control. So that our children can stay here in Ukraine with you because they will have the right to a clean and safe environment. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u38	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedina Sophia. Princess Mikola Leonidovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u39	To be honest, colleagues, children, health, and nature have become the most tedious of speculations. Well, what nature are you talking about? European parliamentarians, why don't we hold a round table, explain when they're aspiring to vote for something they haven't read. Do you know what this bill is about? Planned tests may begin at any time when there are no objective reasons. If all non-planned checks can only be carried out in the event of a prior objective basis for this, the bill proposes that they be carried out only on the basis of a request from any person whether it is justified or not. Checks can be carried out at any time: at night, at work days. After the test has begun, the manager of the company is expected to appear within 4 hours. A disease, a vacation, a stay abroad is no excuse. During inspections, inspectors have the right to unimpeded access to any premises, even your residences. There are no such rights even in the investigators, in the police during the search. What are we talking about? You want to protect ecology, let us not imitate environmental protection, but make good laws and strong laws. Of the three laws that are being pushed against us now, so that we can vote on them, in the final words, we will support the Emerald Network in the first reading, the rest of the incomprehensible topics, the incomprehensible powers we will not support, because it's not about ecology. You cover up your own incompetence, you make money obtained illegally from grants to report for laws that will never work. We'll hold on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u40	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u41	Please pass the word to Anna Speedhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u42	Anna Constantine's speedboat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, I have repeatedly experienced in my district that Derzeko inspection simply cannot carry out even planned checks because enterprises do not allow them. And the fine for that is so small, it just sucks. So you can put at least a thousand planned tests, but it's just that there's no permit for them in the Derjeko inspection. You know, when the village is running out of water because someone illegally tore up lakes and no one can do anything about it, or when people in Boguslav are suffocating from how the Temp factory works without using any cleaning facilities, the question is, is it worth strengthening, really, the ability of Derzekoinspection? Of course, yes. Because there is no way that we can affect the environmental situation in Ukraine today. There is no way that we can influence businesses that throw air into the air and poison every Ukrainian. I believe that the first reading of this bill requires support. And before the second reading, we need to work out all the points that cause doubt and mistrust. So in the first reading, we, the "For the Future" MP group, support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u44	All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Take your seats, get ready to vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on State Environmental Control (Registration No. 3091). Ready to vote? You put your mask on. And I have a different distance. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:41:10]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft of the Emerald Network Areas Act (Registration No. 4461). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:41:40]] For 228 Decision taken. The national deputy of Ukraine, Yulia Yuriyovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u45	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's a bill on environmental and European values, about our responsibility with you to preserve rare species of plants and animals. The bill implements two directives – Birds and Inhabitants and corresponds to the green course of the European vector. I will point out that Ukraine has already undertaken to implement the Berne Convention and to protect the conservation areas. As of today in Ukraine, 377 Emerald objects. On the average, 13 percent of the total area of Ukraine is 8 million hectares. Colleagues, the Emerald Network is already on the cadastral map, it exists. But it's not really defined by the law of Ukraine, so every day we fight to protect it. It's an important moment. The bill protects only certain species of plants, animals and dwellings that are contained in Appendices 1, 2, 3. She's not talking about a total ban, like an ATF, that's not true, colleagues. The most interesting thing is that during the days we develop myths about what will actually be banned is the construction of roads, lifts, or hotel business. That's not true, colleagues. Let's open a bill, read the rules, and work together on the second reading, and only then will the bill come into the room. Colleagues who wanted to point out that we live in this country, our children, our grandchildren live in this country, and most importantly, to protect these rare species, we have this possibility, colleagues. I hope for your support, your wisdom. And most importantly, it integrates a national register and a register of environmental impact assessments as part of an environmental impact assessment, not a separate procedure. Colleagues, I believe in your wisdom. I sincerely hope for your support and sincerely look forward to working with each faction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u46	The word is given to the Vice - Chief of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use of Olena Volodymyr Curve. Please, Olena Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, Božava, Siniveir, Askania-Nova. How much longer do we have to hold up defense against saving these unique territories? Is it now time to establish legal and organizational principles for the management of the Emerald Network? Today's vote, without exaggeration, is an indicator of the moral values of the parliamentarians of this call. Bill 4461 will allow our children and grandchildren to show stormy bears, rice, dentists, wolves, and other species of flora and fauna not only in photography. I want to reassure all those who want to build hotels, other infrastructure facilities, and do business in these areas, it is not forbidden. Listen, it's not forbidden by law. The bill introduces only an additional assessment of the impact on the Emerald Network as part of a mandatory environmental impact assessment. And this estimate is free. With NAMC representatives, we have come to an understanding of how to follow their recommendations. We will also consider all of the GNEU’s revisions in preparation for the second reading. The Ecocommittee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt Bill 4461, which was signed by more than 50 national deputies. Colleagues, this bill will depend not only on the protection of rare species and habitats but also on the image of the country in the international arena. We're asking for backup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u48	Thank you, Olena Volodymyrically. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Parliamentarianism is. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni, who gives the word to the Honourable Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u49	Dear Ukrainians, you know, our political team was shocked when the majority began their violent activities by destroying the Ministry of Ecology in general. We are even more shocked by the fact that today Green and his Office are building swimming pools and resting grounds on a unique ecocomplex called Beer, a more faithful ecosystem on the peninsula. This is really your attitude toward ecology. And taking the opportunity of being here is the minister of ecology. We demand that we stop this construction. There can't be any pool on the island. There's no rest base for Zelensky and his team. As for the actual law that we're discussing right now. Indeed, this is Ukraine’s commitment to support the Convention on the Conservation of Wildlife, under several directives of the European Parliament. And it's a shame, in fact, that this bill has so many corrupt risks. One hand doesn't know what the other hand does. When the Ecology Committee is so serious about supporting wildlife conservation, there are so many corruption risks that the Anti-Corruption Committee is absolutely fair to point out that you have a dual management regime there, and absolutely incompetent eco-inspectors' functions, which will be able to "bust" the business, as you are doing with every structure today. And obviously we are definitely against the Ukrainian business being under such pressure today and the struggles. We will support this important bill in the first reading. Moreover, among our factions are his coauthors. But we will work very seriously on his second reading. And call on Zelensky, stop destroying the Chosen One.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u50	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, "Trust" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u51	Please give the floor to Robert Horvath.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u52	National Deputy Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u53	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Robert Horvath, Uzhgrad, Trust Group. Our MPs will support this Emerald Network Bill. Yes, the bill requires further work in order for it to be fully in line with the Berne Convention. Yes, the second reading is about to take away the corruption risks that the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee has pointed out. According to the committee, the bill does not meet the requirements of anti-corruption legislation and contains corruptive factors. We also have to take into account the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration on 9 pages. But at the same time, we have to support this bill and make it right until the second reading. As co-author of this bill, I was born in the mountains, and I know more than anyone that we need to preserve the flora and fauna of our Carpathians. But at the same time, we need to remember that there are people there who need to be rich, rich, and have their jobs. Please support the bill in the first reading, and to the second we have to clean up everything that concerns me and other colleagues. Thank you. Trust Group will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u54	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, it's a beautiful picture of birds with bears. But when will our "ministers of the people" protect the Ukrainians, when will you start protecting people? According to UNICEF, we have 1 million Ukrainians who can't eat properly during the day, they're short of money. And you're talking about some kind of protection. You've got corruption going on, and that's what your international partners are telling you that you're trying to make a deal with. And you're putting open-minded corruption bills on the table. And by the way, not only our anti-corruption committee, but other public organizations have expressed their objections to it. I don't understand why you're re-establishing another government body. Half an hour ago, you were telling me how bad your agrarian politician was. So this is your minister, you assigned him, you pay him. And now you're creating another executive body. Why? And what's he gonna work for? I don't understand why the draft law allows certain types of economic activity, such as industrial fishing, hunting, and pipeline construction, to be carried out on the territory of these emerald networks. That's what you're doing, that's what nature you're going to try to preserve, why all this farce to stretch your ordinary equipment. As for the committee's anti-corruption findings, it really doesn't meet the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. I don't know why we should take him. Work it out, take it in the fall, normally, so that no one gets any comments and we vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u56	Scram. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u57	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Here, my countrymen, representing the Ukrainian Carpathians, spoke from this rostrum. So you know, when we define the Emerald Network and we call it beautiful words, so let's be honest, let's start with our Ukrainian entrepreneurs building as many hotels, sanatoriums, holiday bases, ski resorts as they are in Austria, Germany or France, or Italy, and then let's take the Emerald Network. You look at the Ukrainian coastline, we've got, what, a normal recreational zone developing? People go to bed unhappy, they're all over the beaches with these blankets. So instead of investing in building there, we now want to make the Emerald Network, so that nothing can be done at all, is this the law? So I want to say one thing, I totally support both flora and fauna, and I need to protect it completely -- it's very right and it's very wise. But let's make a penny for the Ukrainians on Ukrainian soil, not so that those with thousands of dollars go to Austria to rest and skate, not here in Ukraine, because there's nowhere to go. So, dear friends, I say that this bill in this form is not even ready for the first reading, it has to be rejected. To draft a bill with all the central executive authorities to be supported here, with all the interested persons. Ask people, ask communities today what they think, and how they will develop, and then let us vote for such sensitive things. We have to develop Ukrainian state and Ukrainian territory first, and then we have to think about what we're being told from abroad and we're being advised here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u58	The eunuch Julius Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u59	Dear colleagues! I wanted to draw your attention to this bill again. The bill is supported by MEPs, the EU representation in Ukraine, the Ministry of Education, the Committee of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, and 200 scientists signed a petition from 78 scientific and research institutions. As for the procedure itself, once again, you say, in the European Union, there's Nature 2000 that's the analog of the Emeralds, there's hotels, there's lifts, there's everything works. This is also stated in our bill. Colleagues, all of your comments will be taken into account, and we will work together. Asking for support, allowing you to be an Emerald Network in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u60	Lesja Volodymyrna Vasilko. Then we can vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u61	Dear colleagues! So it has happened that most of the environmental bills that we are currently considering are Euro-integration and Project 4461 is not exceptions. Since the year 96, we have a commitment to the Berne Convention to create a network of areas to protect nature, plants and animals that are considered rare at European level. The emerald network should be finally created by the end of this year, and it is perfectly logical that we should now adopt a law that will determine the status of the Emerald Network on a national level. And this is particularly important, in the context of Ukraine's commitments to preserve biodiversity under the Euro-Integration Agreements and at the European Green Rate announced, which the Voice faction supports. The only thing that really is a few flaws in this bill, including the environmental impact assessment procedure, and the definition of some terms that can and should be further developed into second reading. I ask my colleagues to support this bill and work together to improve it to the second reading. The Voice faction will vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u62	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Emerald Network Areas Act (Registration No. 4461). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[16:57:18]] For 199 The decision is not taken. I am voting for a motion to refer to a committee to prepare for the re-reading of the draft Law (registration number 4461). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:57:53]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on Prevention, Reduction and Control of Pollution resulting from Industrial Activity (Re-reading). It's the second time we've come back to this. Three times? Registration number 4167, it is proposed to consider this issue in a simplified procedure. [[16:58:45.]] For 201 Decision taken. I remind you that only twice you can send a bill for re-first or second reading. No, no! Because for the first time, they voted twice. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, as you have been reminded, we are looking twice today. For the second time, we are considering the completed draft of the Law on Prevention, Reduction and Control of Pollution resulting from Industrial Activities (4167). Dear colleagues, in 2014, we finally made our European choice, and at the same time declared our intentions to radically change the pollution situation of the environment. In fact, two thirds of our country’s population are now living in areas where atmospheric air conditions do not meet hygiene standards, which in turn affects the general population’s disease. So far, in Ukraine, one of the world’s highest air pollution mortality rates is over 54,000 people a year. In addition, industry causes water and soil pollution, resulting in an increase in the level of general disease, such as infections and cancers. The main reasons are the lack of compliance with environmental standards and the slow pace of the introduction of new technologies. What does the bill propose? This reduces the pressure on the environment by establishing a new form of dialogue between the State, business and the public in terms of reducing industrial pollution, namely, setting requirements for the application of the best available technologies and management methods for enterprises, introducing new transparent, understandable rules for the granting of one integrated permit instead of three, changing the approach to measuring and calculating emissions of pollutants and enabling the Ukrainian business to become competitive, in line with the new European rules on the SMM industry regulation mechanism. The amended bill includes comments, comments, and comments. People's Deputies, GNEU, Supreme Council Committees. The Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use as a result of its consideration recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, please sign in. No, it's a reread. Head of the committee, please. Head of the committee, please! Wait, dear fellows, there are still two alternatives, because they came up with an amended bill. Please welcome the National Deputy of Ukraine, Artem Olegovich. Don't insist. National Deputy Fungi Victoria Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, I am also two-handed for environmental improvement. And I think everyone in this room is going to be, of course, for this. But let's figure out what we want to do today. First of all, the killing of the domestic industry. And tell me, please, where are we going to take the money for all the other social projects and other projects? Today, when we say that we are entering and doing everything we can to join the European Union, you know, it would be very good if we were admitted to the European Union today. And if we just kill our own domestic economy today, I'll tell you, we're not going to be admitted to the European Union, unfortunately, no one will. This bill introduces a direct term such as NDM, which is the best available practices and technologies, and we commit our business to doing them today. But tell me, what are the best practices? The best practices of the European Union. The best practices of the European Union today can only be produced by European companies. Then why are we talking about localization in general if we're "killing our domestic business"? Please do not accept 4167 today. Please take a look at the alternative 4167-3. We've already taken into account the economic committee today, a working group that will be developing exactly our Ukrainian standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u66	Thank you. The vice president of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environmental Use of the Scroll of Helen Volodymyrna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, the venerable inhabitants of the Horn of Creature, Mariupola, Dniper, Zaporozhye! There is now every chance that the hope of breathing clean air will finally become a reality. It's very strange to hear that we shouldn't kill business, but we can kill people. It's speculation! In no way will eco-manufacturing lead to the extinction of our businesses. The bill does not apply to small and medium-sized businesses, solely large ones. Eco-production will reduce operating costs, improve production quality. It's speculation. You're saying this isn't the time for eco-managing and implementing the best technologies? Tell oncological children who choose their right to life each day. And let's not speculate. The purpose of adoption of Bill 4167 is confirmed by the conclusions of the RNB, the Committee of Anti-Corruption Policy. Part of GNEU’s comments are already taken into account. As a result of its meeting, the eco-committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft Law 4167 to adopt as a basis and alternative to reject. Colleagues, please support the right of Ukrainians to live in environmentally sound conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u68	Please sign two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Bragar Eugene Vadimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u69	Please pass the word to Marikovsky Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u70	Marikowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, we are now considering a second important bill on the prevention of industrial pollution. The first was 3091 on state environmental control. We understand that today we need to solve the issues with the businesses that live next door in Creature Rose, Zaporozhye, Mariupola, in the Burstin Peninsula. Actually, we don't mind them working on it. We're only here because it's the foundation of our economy, of our economic processes. But we're just trying to keep them up to date. Gradually it's not in 1-2 years. We've been giving this upgrade for 12 years. What does this modernization mean? It's setting up clean electric filters that work all over the world. The best available technologies and methods. We ask them to consider this and set them up for quite a long time. In fact, we realize that it may not be economical for them to be comfortable because it is. Why? If they don't upgrade, they don't invest, they can produce cheaper electricity and everything else. But we're going to take another step to give them affordable environmental cheap loans and cheap finances. But only after we've laid the groundwork do they have to modernize? Because they haven't found this path to modernization in 20 years. Request: To support the first reading, all sharp corners will be cleaned up to the second reading and we will begin to live in an ecologically normal, safe, healthy nation. And we will be guaranteed the constitutional right to a clean and secure environment for every resident of the Horn of Curve, Zaporozhye, Mariupol. Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u72	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilko, please, "The Voice."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, although the 4167 bill is called on the reduction of industrial pollution, it is, in fact, about the modernisation and ecologicalization of the old Soviet powers that have long worked and which are now causing more damage to the Ukrainians and the state than their owners. According to the World Health Organization, Ukrainians spend about 13 billion dollars a year on cancer, asthma, cardiovascular diseases directly related to the polluted environment. If you're able to absorb the indirect losses that the state is causing because of the premature death of the working population because of the polluted air, water and soil, we lose 6 percent of GDP each year. These figures I'm giving to some of the business keel representatives, who in this room are very fond of talking about billions of losses and the ruined economy, if suddenly, God forbid, they're going to have to make a profit not on the offshore, but they're going to put some of it into clean equipment, filters and monitoring on the pipe. And I don't know what to say anymore to moms, to moms who beg you to do something about the red sky in Mariupola and the black power in Kamyanca, Zaporozhye and Dniper, because their kids can't go out for an extra hour because they're coming back with asthma attacks and red spots of allergy. You know, I'm just a mom myself. Two of my three children were born with terrible allergies and heart problems. And the doctors' explanation is no, not genetics, the doctors' explanation is ecology. And the advice they give me is, "Get out of town." It's the only thing that's happened is that I'm a cynic. And I love my city. And I want my children to love him, and grow up in him, and live in him, and not turn into environmental refugees. So, colleagues, today I urge you all in this room to stand up for our children's future, to defend future generations of Ukrainians. And to encourage the Ukrainian industry to finally become a better, safer, European industry. I urge you to vote in favour of Bill 4167, and I will now do so by the faction of Voice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u74	Zabrodsky. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u75	Friends, we worked with the authors of this project after the previous failed laws, even though they voted for it. We were told, "Yes, yes, yes." But none of our suggestions were taken into account or taken into account. Let me explain why. Because they didn't make a bill against Ahmet, not against Martians. I saw here, by the way, that President Zelensky has a Martian, because Curve Rigg and Mars look the same. And for those who want to corrupt, those who need to keep an eye on the environment. Permission is essentially a license. Permission is granted for a specific activity. What does this law permit? In order to take action, the activities provided for in this law. No specific action is allowed. What is an installation, how many can there be? For example, there is no installation on the domain stove. Black metal is a kind of activity. Black metals melt in a domain furnace. This activity is not carried out according to the relevant KWED. So the proposed definition will make it difficult to figure out whether a domain stove is an installation. In the absence of specifics, the question arises: What is an installation? It's a domain stove, it's a manufacturing plant, it's a melting furnace? Permission is required for what? If one stove doesn't work, does the whole factory need permission? You know, when you write laws that each examiner and each director can do in their own way, these laws only make that director corrupt this examiner and destroy the environment and the environment around him. Mariupol is the dirtiest city in Ukraine. This law is written for him to remain the same, so that the Horn of the Curve remains the same as Mars. Because it will be impossible to do so. You want to make quality law -- we're ready, we're open. We offered to do this, you agreed to do it, and you brought back your corruption papers. We'll hold on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u76	The word is given to the national deputy Shkrum Aloni Ivanovni, the faction of the political party "The Fatherland". Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u77	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, our political power supports all environmental laws. But whether it's the environmental protection law, let's figure it out, and how power is now fighting for Ukrainian nature and for clean air. Could they have stopped cutting off Ukrainian Carpathians and exporting forests, including roundwood? You'll see how the echelons go through our western borders. Next. This bill was on the committee for a year from September. Twice the Supreme Council turned him back to his first reading. And what do we have today, dear colleagues? It's a corrupt law or a bill, God forbid, it's going to be a law. And figure out what your right hand is doing and whether it knows your left. Here, colleagues went out and criticized the APC minister, who was elected by himself, including the entire government. And here's the same thing, the conclusion of Minfin is definitely against, (note!) There is a decision of the National Security and Defence Council. According to a general conclusion of the RNB, the current bill poses a threat to Ukraine's economic security, with significant negative social and economic consequences. Dear colleagues, you're in charge. You're creating another organ, you're assigning the Ministry of the Environment today, which will issue more permits. You're reforming the environmental inspection today, not, excuse me, form another ingredient. Because of that faction "Paternity" will not vote for such a law. It may be about creating 500,000 jobs!? Dear colleagues, you are destroying what is still working in Ukraine today, sending people abroad to earn money.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, who else wants to act under this law? Which of the factions hasn't performed yet? The "minister of the people" hasn't spoken yet, has it? Mezentsev, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u79	Thank you, Mr. Head. It's such an expert. But, colleagues, we're talking about Euro-integration standards here, maybe they're misunderstood. And I'll tell you a story from my 168-born Shevchenkov district of Kharkiv. For two years, or even more, the oven sausage worked. We couldn't, let's say, help close it because of breaking the rules. Children living next door developed asthma and even oncology in two years. So there was nothing the State Inspectorate could do. There were special tests out of turn, out of schedule, and then in some beautiful way, the capillary worked. Only after the court’s decision could it be closed. So this is the case of millions of people all over the country. And it's not just about European integration, it's about the daily life of Ukrainians. Colleagues, we vote 4167.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u80	Dear colleagues! Maria Sergiyevno, Maria Sergiyevno Mezenceva, but the colleague spoke, what are you manipulating? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's go to the vote. I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues, a moment of attention. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Prevention, Reduction and Control of Pollution resulting from Industrial Activities (Registration No. 4167). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[17:19:33]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. Let's see the factions. Next question of the agenda. This is the Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws on Forest Conservation (Registration No. 5650). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:20:26]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:20:50]] For 230 Decision taken. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy and the Environmental Use of the Ovchinnik Yuli Yuli Jurijovna is invited to attend. And from the authors and the committee? Give me four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u81	Once again, good afternoon, dear colleagues. Bill 5650 is the way to solve two very important problems. The first is the conservation of Ukrainian forests and the expansion of their area. In case of adoption, the term "self-sustaining forests" will be legally defined. If we count the estimated number of self-sustaining forests in Ukraine, that's about 500,000 hectares, that's like half of the Chernobyl area. The bill introduces and significantly simplifies the process of creating new forests. Next, protection is provided against the destruction of such forests. Other provisions include the provision of municipal forest protection services with appropriate powers, since the protection of municipal forests — 12 percent of all forests — is currently ineffective. The second problem facing these issues is the removal of the risks to biodiversity and non-forest natural ecosystems arising from land decentralization. First, entering the right field of steppe areas. Colleagues, if we look at 95, I would stress that 95 percent of the steppe resources are destroyed in Ukraine. Next, it imposes a moratorium until 2025 on the destruction of pastures and synogages. It improves land conservation and imposes an obligation on the Cabinet of Ministers to conduct land inventory to determine the conservation status of the land. Colleagues, we presented such proposals before Bill 2194, they were the basis of the bill. According to the World Bank, Ukraine is the third country by percentage of the land’s decomposition and the ninth by the world’s total area of arable land. It should be noted that this bill is in absolute compliance with Presidential Decree No. 228. In order to take into account the comments made by GNEU, by the central executive authorities, the committee, as an exception, proposes some adjustments in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules. First, it's in the Forest Code, in article 33 and article 107, in the Ukrainian Local Self-Government Act, in article 33, in the Ukrainian Land Code, in article 117 and article 122, and in the Ukrainian Land Protection Act, in article 1, article 37 and article 137. To take account of all these points, colleagues, the following is proposed. For tens of years, in Ukraine, all the promising strategic documents have been mentioned to reduce disintegration, to increase the area, and only now do we have the opportunity to go into the right field and solve this issue. Dear colleagues, ask for the support of Bill 5650 and for the protection of forests, steppes, and meadows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u82	Please sign up from the MP factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u83	Dear Ukrainians, a month ago Greensky announced a wonderful initiative to plant a billion trees in a few years. Months later, some 30 million trees had to be planted to fulfill this obligation. Did you see Zelensky, who's always out there somewhere in Birucchi, swimming, blowing up a tree? We're not. Instead, the European Solidarity Team has made an enormous number of special Saturdays in Luhansk, burned out by fires, in Carpathians where poachers are cutting out our forests today to plant trees. Dear fellow Servants, we invite you to our lounge, we invite you together to plant trees in Luhansk, in Carpathians to help you, in my native Church, in Kiev, to carry out this initiative of your President, who has flung and forgotten about her. Obviously, our team will vote in favour of this bill, we realize the importance of greening Ukraine, and we welcome the fact that today we have such an environmental order of the day of the off-season session. But there's one "but," the names of the bills that we've just voted on a few previous, correct, European, non-professional, corrupt risks, and that's very bad. We are now officially addressing the head of the environmental committee, our vote under bill 3091 will depend, in the second reading, on the amendments that we are ready to work on together. We're willing to work together to re-read the Emerald Bill in order to take European standards into account, but remove all the corruption elements from there. And so we're ready to do a new bill to get this parliamentary very strong industrial lobby here, which just "wet" all the environmental-related bills, it stopped doing that, so that you and I could adopt a normal bill that would protect the Ukrainian environment. Ready to sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u84	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u85	Please pass the word to Lesi Vasilko. Vassillah.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u86	Colleagues, literally a month ago, the President of Ukraine announced an initiative to plant one billion trees and thus join Ukraine in the global greening of the planet and in combating climate change. And that's a good thing, of course, but if you have one hand to plant and the other hand to chop, agree, the effect is very much the same, and that's how it works. In view of the fact that the April bill 2194 finally allowed the deforestation of self - attack forests that do not have a separate status today and are in principle comparable to that of a peasant. Yes, there are about 2 million hectares of self-absorbed areas in Ukraine, which is exactly the amount that we should plant with trees to meet our obligations under Euro-integration agreements and at the European Green Rate supported by the Voice faction. Without the change proposed by the 5650, there is a risk that these natural forests, which are now helping us to comply with the obligations of reducing greenhouse gases under the Paris Agreement and with a wide range of other international arrangements, will soon disappear. It is also important that Ukrainian legislation develop rules that will promote both organized deforestation and the conservation of existing forests. Believe me, it will be much cheaper than replanting trees and waiting for them to grow up. The Voice faction supports the draft Law 5650 and votes in favour of saving Ukrainian forests even in such a form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u87	Tchaikovsky John Adamovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u88	Please pass the word to Anton Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u89	Anton Eduardoovich Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, to be honest, we are tired of your double standards. Now you want us to adopt a bill on forest conservation. When are you going to start working and not appoint the forest leaders of the open-minded criminals? Every day we get a message from Montenegro, from Zitomirsk, from Ternopolska, about how your leaders, appointed by your government and you, are now criminalizing the forests. Dozens of cases have been set up for tens of millions of dollars, but these officials openly say that they are being covered up in the Office of the Attorney General, in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and in other structures. So these are your law enforcement agencies! For example, today, a fresh appeal came to me from Žitomirščina and Ternopolska, the district management of the forest fishing industry, and it's about the leaders of these administrations, Mr. Sahnuk and Mr. Jaremk, and a number of forest managers in these two areas: illegal logging in the form of a drill, constant fire, criminal conduct and courts, and as a result these people are your people, the people of the people of the people continue to work in these positions. That's when these people aren't in these positions, then we won't have to adopt these forest conservation bills. Let's finish up these double standards, get rid of our colporteurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u91	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u92	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. My colleague Heratchenko Irina spoke of a billion trees. But I can see that at this rate you can only sow a billion hemp bushes. Colleagues, you're fighting what you've created here. We didn't need to hear "The Fatherland," we said that it was impossible to accept 2194, where other areas were considered to be non-equity without any change in FMCT. Now you're going to offer these wooded areas, these strips of protection to bring into the cadastre. Why didn't you listen to Fatherland? The entire arable committee comes out here and talks about the restoration of the Ministry of the APC, but this entire arable committee here in the room is voting for the liquidation of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food. The entire agar committee is now struggling with Prime Minister Smigal to transfer functions to the APC and that's right, I support. The ministry needs to be complete in order for us to develop whole - souled politics. But at the same time, you're voting for Smygal's initiatives and for this Smygal. That's the problem, colleagues, that when they put certain amendments into the voting room, some suggestions need to be heard. And this is where we said, no inventory and no change. without the introduction into the cadastre of a special nature-invention fund, forest areas, protected certain areas, our reserves, Askania-Nova, we, colleagues, should only then adopt appropriate legislation. "Paternality" will vote in favour, of course, to correct, colleagues, your mistakes and this right initiative we have to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u93	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, the subject. And then we go to the vote. All those who wish to speak? Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u94	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, when does the "Justice" train with the name go, after all? I invite you all to come to Lugansk. Look what they've turned our home land into. Forty percent of the forest burned, people burned alive, 22 billion dollars of damage to the real state. When the Attorney General's office is in office, he'll still take a report from the interim investigation committee when they see that, in blood, the governor is robbing the Lugansk area today. When, though, will justice be on the surface? Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u95	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending certain legislation on forest conservation (registration number 5650). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:34:52]] For 301 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the control of emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere (registration number 5339). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[17:35:30.]] For 266 Decision taken. This question is suggested by a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:35:55]] For 251 Decision taken. The Minister for Environmental Protection and Natural Resources, Abraham’s Romani Romanovich, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u96	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. I'm not going to wear myself out with a long speech. In fact, Bill 5339 is designed to make it easier to get permission to throw into the air, to make it clear to business, to society, to power, to withstand this balance in this triangle. Digitalize the procedure, because requests and answers will come in electronic format. This has also been done to implement Presidential Decree No. 111, the continuous implementation by air - safety personnel of measures to reduce emissions and to increase the liability for air pollution violations. There were some standards that were set out for consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We've included them in the law to disprove any charges, let's say, ambiguity. The bill is of high social interest because it regulates public participation in decision-making. This is very important for the public to feel involved in the process of obtaining such permits. Thank you very much. Please vote and support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u97	Thank you. The vice president of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environmental Use of the Scroll of Helen Volodymyrna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, despite the fact that big business lobbying is winning in the Council, we do not stop. What does Bill 5339 offer? He obliges the operators to keep a daily check of the work of stationary emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere, to monitor compliance with approved standards by allowing damages, and to report annually on compliance. What's going to get the business? First of all, business gets transparent, law-bound rules that regulate extradition, denial of issuance and cancellation of permission to throw away. Second, the administrative pressure on operators in obtaining discharge permits is decreasing. You heard the position of the Ministry of Mindowkill. GNEU commented on a bill that the ecocommittee must refine and include in its second reading. It looks forward to a rapid and positive passage in the Supreme Council of this bill by the National Regulatory Service of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy and Use recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis. To protect a vital element of the natural environment, everyone is invited to speak on the basis of the quality of the health of our citizens. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u99	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Can we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we do have those. [[B in m in s a l in]] Bragar Eugene Vadimovich. Good evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u100	Good for you, too. And you'll grow older. The inhabitants of cities such as Zaporozhye, Mariupol, Krivi Rig, Kamensk, live on average for 10 years less than the inhabitants of other regions. This is not because they drink more or smoke more. They drink and smoke in the same way as the inhabitants of other regions. [[B in m in s a l in]] The situation is different. The level of medicine there is the same. But industrial discards are several times higher than in other regions. So let's support the inhabitants of these regions and give them back their 10 years of life that they took from them in the 20s to 30s. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u101	No, it's important to go back 10 years. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u102	Please pass the word to Lesi Vasilko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u103	I'm sorry, I listened. Who? Aah! Wasilenko Lesia Volodymyrna. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, the good half of the draft legislation of this extraordinary session directly or indirectly applies to the right of Ukrainians to clean air and 5339 does not apply. In a country where two thirds of the population are forced to breathe air, which is four times worse than in the same Poland or Czech Republic, air protection should be given special attention. With the adoption of Bill 5,339 coal power plants, cement plants, oil refineries, and other small and medium - meaning pollutants will have to report annual emissions into the atmosphere and meet their environmental obligations. And companies like Kurahivska TES, Zaporizka TES, Kyivska TES will no longer be able to use the gaps in legislation to unwarrantedly delay the installation of filters, dust and sulfur treatment and monitoring of pipe emissions. Since the adoption of the bill would only allow further activities if all the action that had been made to reduce discards had been carried out, no transfer of such measures would be allowed. Considering that this bill has given all businesses up to 10 years for eco-manufacturing, this period should be absolutely sufficient to enable enterprises to implement their declared plans for conservation. You know, if we were still looking at the draft Decree 5129 on mandatory implementation of the National Plan for Reducing Emissions from Coal Power Plants, we could really guarantee that Ukrainians will be able to breathe in Europe in 10 years. And the 5339 I can say is that in the first reading, the Voice faction will support this bill, and in the second reading we will introduce a few minimum adjustments to make it even better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u105	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u106	From our point of view, this project is still weakening rather than strengthening environmental control, and I'll explain why. The bill provides that the Ministry shall determine the method of calculating the extent of damage by removing references to the law, although the law itself must determine the principles of any kind of liability, including civil law. When we put all of this into the hands of the executive, there is one step before the abuse of this authority. The standards of part 2, 11 of the current law, which requires that the list of pollutants be reviewed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at least once every 5 years at the request of the relevant central executive authorities, as well as that of a review period of at least 5 years. Contaminants can change, technologies change, and new compounds develop. And it's important to the environment. Why are we not taking this into account in this law? Well, from the point of view of technology. The procedure for obtaining a permit is generally not in such laws, not in the Law on Air Protection, but in the Law on the Allowance of a General Rule, as it should be. It was also clear that this bill had to be adopted after Law 3091 and other laws had been passed by the end, including those that had been rejected, but we would submit them again, in order to reconcile the rules between this law and the other laws that we voted for. That's why we're going to hold on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u107	All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on improving the control of emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere (registration number 5339). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[17:45:33]] For 236 For 235. Decision taken. 236, I'm sorry. Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the implementation of certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of animal and plant protection) (registration No. 2351). At the rostrum, the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Use of the Ovchinnik Julius Juryovn is invited to attend. Would you please tell me no one's insisting on the papers? How many lines? One right? The number? 205 correct. Wait. How many rights do you have? Wait a second. I'm sorry. Partially counted. What do you want to do with it? I'll bet you a vote. Oh, please, 205 revisions, Prostruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u108	Thank you. The bill is extremely important in terms of the humanity of society, and zoologists are asking for its approval by Parliament. But at the same time, there is a certain conflict. If we don't support this amendment, we're not going to be able to operate the zoos, the epochs, and the dolphins in a normal way. So I'm going to propose that we put this right here. I'd like a colleague to support my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u109	I'll bet you 205 Pass. It's part of the committee. The author insists on taking full account. The author’s proposal is put to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[17:47:59]] For 232 Decision taken. Edit is fully counted. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u110	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, I'm only a minute away for my work. I would like us to vote in favour of this bill, it deals with animal protection in a comprehensive way and raises responsibility for it. and appropriate prohibitions, for cruel conduct and the like. Colleagues, we need to pay more attention to such bills. Why? Because we underestimate and do not work in legislation directly to protect our animals and the animal world, to protect those animals that surround us. And cruel behavior should be punished precisely and the animals should be removed anywhere, if they are poorly fed, if they are not humanely killed and so on. So I think, let's support the appropriate initiatives. And Fatherland will support it. And I'm from the other right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u111	Don't you insist on voting? Okay. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the implementation of certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of animal and plant protection) (registration No. 2351). Please support and vote. [[17:50:19.]] For 285 Decision taken. The next issue is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the responsibility for illegal mining (registration number 3576). Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of the responsibility for illegal mining of useful fossils (registration number 3576). Please support and vote. [[17:51:07]] For 307 Decision taken. Next question. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on high - risk objects (registration number 4407). Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? He's a great man, and he's on his way. One right? One correction. Please state the correct number immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u112	19th. 19 revisions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u113	Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, this is a very important amendment, because this bill makes unacceptable changes in this article because third-class objects come out of action. This is about 80 percent of all high - security objects in Ukraine. This will not ensure proper identification of the threat, emergency situations, and timely reporting of people in areas of possible injury. You just look at the numbers. In recent years, 1,893 people have died, 274 of them children, 816 emergencies. It is necessary to leave the article as it is now. All extremely high - risk objects should work to ensure that emergency situations are properly identified. These facilities must be provided. Thank you. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u115	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, it is a decree that all objects of increased danger, namely, those 80 percent, will be equipped with announcements. It's an excessive workload on business. That's why we didn't support it. By the system that's being offered, by the system. [[Unheard]] Only the first and second categories are equipped with such a system of apparitions. Please don't support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u117	I'm betting on the vote number 19 of the Supreme. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:53:35]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Right Not included. All right, no one's insisting on the papers anymore? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on high-risk objects (registration number 4407). Please support and vote. [[17:54:12]] For 291 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next question is the bill, registration number 4259. Does anyone insist on the papers? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 16 of the Act on Air Protection of Ukraine on the regulation of ozone-depleting substances and fluorinated greenhouse gases (registration No. 4259). Please support and vote. [[17:55:02]] For 308. Decision taken. Next question of the agenda. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Property Fund of Ukraine and other Ukrainian legislative acts to promote investment in the privatization and rental of state and municipal property (registration number 4572). It is suggested that we consider this question. No discussion? It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. [[17:55:46]] For 258. Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Podlas Roxolana Andriyevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for such a greeting. But still, let's talk about the State Property Fund. When we approved the State Budget, we made it clear to the State Property Fund to earn 12 billion dollars from privatization in 2021. This is an ambitious goal, but it can be achieved if you allow the fund to work properly. Draft Law 4572 specifically on simplifying privatization procedures and increasing the attractiveness of objects. We suggest that full disclosure of the object data be required for all interested investors. Only complete transparency will allow a fair price to be formed for an object. We offer to allow, according to Kabminu’s decision, to sell standardized objects of great privatization at electronic auctions, not just offline. We propose to continue the application of English law for another three years, and we've given you and me the start of judicial reform, but until it's improved, investors should feel protected in international arbitration. In addition, after the adoption of Bill 4572, privatization of state-owned enterprises will also begin to fill local budgets, and 10 percent of the price of each entity receives the budget of the community in which it is located. I want to remind you that all the privatization money is financing the government budget deficit. We're constantly told that we need to borrow less from foreign creditors. So, dear colleagues, if we're going to get the country out of the debt pit, let the holding fund work properly. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u119	The word is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Development, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u120	Dear National Deputies, the Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on 14 July 2021, considered the bill submitted by a group of Ukrainian national deputies (registration number 4572) and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted on a basis, with further development in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill, designed to strengthen the ability of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, to carry out its functions, is presented in a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on the National Property Fund for the Settlement of Certain Issues in the Area of Privatization, Rent and Management of Objects of State Property, changes are made to the Ukrainian Master's, Land, Civil, Master's, Procedural, Civil and Procedural Codes, the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, the Code of Bankruptcy, the Code of Law on the Work of Ukraine. In addition, the bill amends the basic economic laws, and in general changes are made to 27 legislative acts in Ukraine. The main tasks of the project are to establish the structure and organisation of the Ukrainian State Property Fund to improve its performance. Clarification of specific provisions of privatization legislation, public property management, corporate governance, and so on, aimed at speeding up and simplifying privatization procedures and improving the efficiency of public property administrations on which privatization decisions have been made. Dealing with other issues related to the activities of government authorities and local self - government bodies in the areas indicated. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? You don't? Let's just sign up for those who want to talk. Please sign up, colleagues. The word is Vasilko Lesi Volodymyrni, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u122	And Vassillko Lesia Volodymyrna gives Jaroslav the Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u123	Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, please, the same faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u124	We've decided that there's a lot of Lassillas in the woods today, so we're going to be very brief, and we see that there's an uncontrollable desire for colleagues to move faster in the daytime. So, as the Voice faction, of course, we support this bill, we are co-authors, and we insist that privatization is one way to get rid of corruption in public enterprises. We therefore vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u125	Thank you. The word is given to the Fedin of Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u126	Please pass the word to your colleague Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u127	Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u128	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The bill in question needs to be stressed that it is quite complex, complex, and yesterday there was a very deep discussion on the committee, because this law was long awaited. There's a lot of rights here, and we need to change and work with lawyers, because good ideas can also have a devastating effect on the whole law. The other one. There is a great deal of positive money in this law, which is linked to the determination of its status, the principles of authorization, the structure and organization of the Fund’s activities. Third. The creation of this agency's law is based not on the Fund of State Property, but on an agency that is financially-banking. Third. When it comes to the fund’s activities, as noted by the Court of Auditors, there has been a great deal of work and effective work on small privatization from 2018 to today. At the same time, GNEU’s comments are more than 11 pages long. We're saying that the fund can't formulate and implement public policy, because these powers of law are placed on the Ministry. The other one. A territorial fund is designated as a legal entity. Third. The fund's decision is not clear. Four. The method of evasive government voting and many other important aspects. At the same time, proposals for exclusion from the Pipeway Transport Act are sometimes at particular risk. If the comments of GNEU and what we discussed yesterday are settled between the first and the second readings, we will support the bill in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u129	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please. Rudik, please, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, what do you say? And he wants to, and he's rolling. Why would you want to? Because for the first time in years, perhaps not even years, and for decades, the State Property Fund can become a collective body for making very important decisions related to privatization, which is a plus, because it has been decided virtually on a one-man basis, it is now planned to introduce a government of seven people. Much better was the practice that was still in previous parliamentary jumps, which reminds us of the ancients, this is the Temporary Commission on Privatization, this was a collegiate body, this was the MPs who could say from different political forces and factions, who, who, who, who, against. Well, let's say it's now a government made up of seven people, but, society, we're still not taking away a number of problems that we're giving back to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Today, if something is wrong and, for example, the Code of Lordship provides that the money from the sale of immovable property is included in the general fund of the State Budget of Ukraine, everything is clear and understood, the authors of the bill propose to divide and give it to the holding fund for redemption, but according to a separate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Tell me, can’t it be written to black people in white who make decisions and remove any potential abuse that may result? The next question, if the object is sold, is the problem of renting accommodations, docks are simplified when it comes to seaports that are functionally owned by the facility. And you're sure the docks will be taken to perform the functions of seaports, not to mow the coast and make a playhouse there, set up hotels there and set up a casino there? I'm not sure, guys. So our MPs split up, we have a free vote. There's a plus.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u131	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u132	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. To cheer up the country's sale, to cheer up the sale of Ukraine! It's called the law. Colleagues, you're canceling the government's agreement under this law to alienate the major foundations of the state-owned Naftogazu enterprises that are used in the transport of highway pipelines. These are our gas repositories, this is part of our gas transport system. If the situation changes, what will we do? The North Stream will change, it will be gone. Colleagues, you are canceling the restrictions on auctions for the sale of objects of great privatization. What does this mean for Ukraine and the Ukrainians? This means lowering the price because at auctions the price is transparent and everyone understands. And when there's no auctions, there's going to be a price drop. Colleagues, what else do you suggest? You're allowing the transformation of state-owned enterprises into crowds. For what? To not sell on open auctions, but simply sell corporate rights, just corporate rights. And this is also a reduction in price and a reduction in government budget. There's no budget for these sales of corporate rights. You allow the buyers of privatization facilities to renew the possibility of such privatisation to those with whom contracts have been terminated. What kind of lobbyist norm is that? Colleagues, you're initiating uncontrollable bodies to privatize single property complexes and parts of them. They're telling you about the docks. There is a property port infrastructure, partly we can sell docks, partly shelters, partly other industrial infrastructure. Colleagues, think about it. This law is not worth accepting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, are they still willing to speak? We don't have any, then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u134	A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Property Fund of Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine to facilitate the involvement of investments in the process of privatization and rental of state and municipal property (registration No. 4572). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:09:11]] For 257 Decision taken. The law is adopted as a basis. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on the characteristics of the provision of electronic public services (registration number 5495). Give me a few minutes. I'll take a 15-minute break as chairman. David Georgievicz, please come.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u135	Invite the national deputies to the hall. Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Aah! I'm sorry. Yes, five rights. Whitelighter, one minute, four readjustments. And then there's one correction. And we vote on it. One minute. It's a binoculars.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u136	Colleagues, I'm sure. As far as 5495. I'm sure for paperless. But there's a SIGMA. And in this law there are legal colleges for practice. The understanding of public service, which usually involves the administration itself, is from the Colosseum. And the competition between two laws is about admin and this paperless, online and offline. And the rule is, if the law requires documents and information, they're not. You are. Well, one law repeals other laws with one sentence. Can you do that? And that the authorities should give information agreed in three days otherwise by silent consent. Are these risks calculated? And that the CMU will essentially determine exceptions to the laws and regimes of implementation of these laws. And of course, 5495 is the birthplace of the Collegiates of the Law on Administrative Procedures, which we have never voted in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u137	Thank you. And number 55. One minute. Bellozer, turn on the microphone. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u138	Friends, in fact, the bill contains some well-founded positions that repeat the formation of the project on the administrative procedure, that if the administrative authorities cannot ask the persons who are at the disposal of the state authorities. But here's the problem of silent consent, which is what you've just discussed. In the case of non-response from the body then there are certain fears and there is such a problem that, given the limited technical capacity of the administrations, the silent consent tool can be used very often and thus also lead to the recognition of facts and documents that they do not have. Imagine that in three days the government must answer to another. And it says that if there is no document, we recognize that it is. So consider my 55 revisions, and you'll solve all the issues that you've just discussed, and those risks that might arise from the silent consent principle. It's okay. That's why, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u139	I'm betting on the vote number 55. It's partially accounted for, the author insists on taking full account. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[18:23:15]] For 112 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on the characteristics of the provision of electronic public services (registration number 5495). Ready to vote. Please support and vote. [[18:23:59]] For 238. Decision taken. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2021 on the allocation of funds for cultural heritage restoration (registration number 5551-2). Mr. Gevko Volodymir Leonidovic, deputy head of the Committee on Budgets, is invited to the rostrum. Is someone going to insist on the papers? Don't shout. Then it's on the table. Princey, don't insist. It insists on 2 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u140	Thank you. So the amendment suggests that the title of the bill be given as follows: "To amend the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2021 on State Budget subsidies to local budgets for the implementation of restoration and conservation works. "..inheritances." Because the law was about an inheritance, and the "hotels" about the budget. You can't vote for this law now. They ruined a beautiful idea. And the language was meant to be destroyed by this law. Please put my bill to the vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u141	I'll bet you two a vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:25:31]] For-69 The decision is not taken. The lab. Don't insist. Demchenko. Don't insist. Princey. 8 axles. Hiccup? I just don't see you here. Okay. Kitsak, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u142	Thank you, colleagues. We have recently launched the Great Restoration program, and according to the requirements laid down there, it has been determined that it is possible to include objects of national importance and state ownership. However, this number of objects in Ukraine is very limited. The bill therefore proposes to remedy the situation, but not to the end. So the law suggests that we set two requirements. This is to expand the circle of objects for the inclusion of monuments, architectural monuments, and the local significance of municipal property, as well as to establish a proportional principle of distribution during the formation of the daily order. In this way we will allow the bill to include a large number of projects that can be restored in every area of Ukraine. Then there will be a proportional distribution and a large restoration.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u143	Thank you. 8 axles. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:27:29]] For-160. Z-60. The decision is not taken. For 160. The decision is not taken. 9 of a row. Princey.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u144	Thank you. Amendment 9 suggested that a subsidy should be provided not only for memorials of municipal property but also for monuments that are not communal property but are monuments of national or local significance. For example, the city of Lviv is national. is a library of the University of Frank, a monument to local significance, the ownership of the university. He can't restore it, it's the oldest library in Ukraine. Minfin says it can't be done. Please support the revision, but even if it does not get votes, it raises the problem. And I ask Minfin and my colleagues together to decide what to do with local monuments that are not on the local balance sheet, like the library of the University of Lviv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u145	I'll bet you 9 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:28:34]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line 11. Princey.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u146	I ask to be allowed to speak immediately 11 and 12 I will not insist, they are technical. It's just a show. Thank you. So, dear colleagues, you know that this bill was passed and initiated by our humanitarian committee. And we really wanted to support the local monuments, and we referred to them as the library of Lviv University, Buchick City Hall. You all have memories. As a result, there were first language articles that had nothing to do with the subject of this law and could not vote. And now a lot of other funding for roads has been shoved up, for other reasons that have no bearing on local monuments. I still understand the amendment made by Comrade Sukh, and we will vote for it, on the reallocation of the funds to Derkino. It's the right story and it's within the Ministry of Culture. But everything else. How can we vote in favour of this bill when, again, there are good reasons to try to drain the budget. I urge you not to vote for it. I don't insist on these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u147	I'll bet you 11 votes first. Don't you insist on voting? Okay. 14th Amendment. Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u148	Dear colleagues, I suggest you cancel your language fines for a business that works in the service area. Private business only has to pay taxes and nothing else. He's no longer guilty of anything. So I suggest you return the right to study in your native language to the Nazis. It's shameful discrimination. Look back, they demand that every hairdresser who has addressed his client in his native language be fined. Protect small businesses, protect ordinary waiters, hairdressers, and protect from those who speculate in language. I'm asking you to protect the area of service and support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u149	As much energy as you have, you'd be in a mine. I'm betting on the vote number 14. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:31:31]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Princess, right number 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u150	Dear colleagues, we have 17th and 26th about the same thing, so I'm going to have one performance. The State Budget Act for 2021 envisioned a subsidy for the creation of cultural services centres. But the law recently adopted and introduced by the Supreme Council takes effect only on December 14, 2021. Obviously, given this provision of subsidies to local budgets for the creation of these cultural services centers, it is virtually impossible. Thus, these rights are offered to 200 million people, who were to be sent to cultural services centers, to be transferred to a subsidy for the restoration of cultural monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u151	I'll bet you 17 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[18:32:35]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line's 18th, Krulko. Don't insist. Luschniak. Don't insist. Puzichuk. Susko, 23rd row.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u152	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! This amendment refers to the movement of ten million dollars within the framework of the State Support Fund for Cinematography to the management and management fund of Derkino himself. This amendment will allow you to pay your salary, to make the move to a different place, because even now people are getting laid off because of a lot of work. The amendment I have made does not create any additional burden on the state budget, because it moves the funds inside the state agency and the government agency. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u153	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u154	The committee previously rejected this amendment, but now there are further clarifications in the committee, the amendment is actually balanced now, it can be supported, it makes sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u155	I'll bet you 23 votes. You heard the committee's position. Please vote. [[18:34:12]] For 282 Decision taken. Edit included. Next thing you know, Yatzenka. Don't insist. It's a princess. Don't insist. Forgotten. The lab. Puzichuk. Everything? Nobody insists anymore? Can we get to the vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2021 on the allocation of funds for the restoration and restoration of cultural heritage (Registration No. 5551-2). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:35:13]] For 263 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next meeting of the Supreme Council. Ruslan Alexiyovich wants an announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u156	Dear colleagues, there's an epidemic of buttons, so the two national deputies of Torokhta and Stepan Cherniavsky are asking to count their vote "for" in 4572. And so is Fris.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-15-m1.u157	The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
