ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. I remind you, once the registration is started, you need to hold the sensor button, press the "Z" green button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? People's deputies please register. [[10:04:31]] There are 117 national deputies in the room. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Larissa Mikolayovna Biozor. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] And Oleg Romanovich Marousek. Welcome to Oleg Romanovich. [[Applause]] Strong health, inspiration, and further work are yours for the benefit of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, on Friday of 10 a.m. an hour of questions is held to the Government. At the suggestion of MPs and groups today, the government will answer questions about tariffs and utility prices for the population of Ukraine and grant subsidies from the state budget to local budgets to provide benefits and housing subsidies to citizens for housing and utilities. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that the "hour of questions" be held to the Government: a statement by the Prime Minister of Ukraine from a specific topic – within 20 minutes, the Prime Minister's response to questions from the deputy factions – to 21 minutes, the Prime Minister's replies to questions from the national deputies – be up to 20 minutes, that is 1 minute for each oral question and 2 minutes for an answer. Is there no objection? None. Then, dear colleagues, I invite Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the podium. Please, Dennis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the people's deputies, distinguished Ukrainians, good afternoon! I'm going to start with the main challenge that all branches of government are facing right now is the resistance to the Coronavirus pandemic. Every day we see an increase in the number of people who are sick and hospitalized. This week, therefore, a decision has been made to introduce a yellow level of anti-epidemic danger throughout the territory, to increase quarantine restrictions is a necessary step to curb the spread of the new wave and to protect people. We're actively preparing the hospital and our medical system, we have three waves of med plant, about 90,000 beds for patients with coronary disease. The first wave of hospitals is more than 35,000 beds, which are almost 100 percent oxygen-secured. We have developed and effective treatment protocols, as well as innovative drugs for patients with COVID-19. As a society and a country, we need to understand that vaccination is the only way to overcome the pandemic in our country. I call on all and the national deputies, too, not to delay vaccination for all Ukrainians. Everyone can come and get a vaccine, protect themselves and their loved ones from the disease, and most importantly, from getting to the hospital. Vaccines work, protecting people from severe disease and death. Over 98 percent of all people currently in hospitals with COVID syndrome are unvaccinated. These numbers are a visual example of vaccines working and protecting. Since the beginning of the vaccine campaign, 6.5 million Ukrainians have been vaccinated, completely vaccinated and given two doses of over 5.3 million Ukrainians. In total, nearly 12 million vaccinations have been carried out today. In order to ensure a continuous vaccination process, Ukraine regularly receives new batches of safe vaccines, and in the coming months, we expect weekly deliveries of nearly half a million doses of Pfizer vaccine, and we have a well-equipped infrastructure to distribute it and provide the cold chain. More than 10 million vaccines are currently being stored in Ukraine, which means that all of our citizens have access to a safe vaccine. Thanks to the direct involvement of the President, the government, our diplomats, the people's deputies, we were able to ensure that four of the best vaccines were available for the Ukrainians. So I urge all citizens, and by the way, I repeat, and the national MPs, to vaccinate and protect themselves and their loved ones and loved ones. To avoid speculation, I also add that the yellow level of danger does not mean stopping the educational process. The educational process will continue, the gardens are working, the special educational institutions are working, the younger classes are learning eye-to-eye. The next, equally important question, which traditionally attracts a lot of attention and speculation, and sometimes outright lies, is the question of heating season and tariff policy. On the initiative of the President of Ukraine, the government has developed a clear plan that consists of five very clear steps. I'll give them a little bit of a buzz first, and then I'll go through the details and figures on each point. So the first is that gas tariffs for the population are constant. In May we launched an annual product for people with an annual price of less than 8 dollars. Regardless of price fluctuations on the stock markets or habakhs, this price does not change throughout the heating season — virtually until the end of April 2022. Once again, we have a stable price of less than 8 dollars per cubic meter. At the same time, in Europe, the price of Habakh is already about 25 dollars per cubic meter. The other one. Heat and hot water tariffs are fixed by local authorities. We have provided all the conditions so that there will be no increase in tariffs and we will insist. NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's state company is offering a three-year contract of 7 G's 42 K's per cubicle of gas for this heating season. Similarly, this price will not increase and will not depend on the market situation. So once again, local managers have no objective reason to raise prices and tariffs for hot and hot water. The tariffs should not increase with respect to the previous heating season. Already 70 percent of the thermal power plant has contracted three years with Naftogaz. For its part, the government is working on the issue of compensation for the heat utility difference in tariffs in previous periods, as well as the restructuring of the debt that exists in these enterprises. More than 30 billion dollars will be added to compensate for this difference. The statements that someone's government is leaving someone alone with problems are populist rhetoric that has nothing to do with reality. Third. The government reduced electricity tariffs for 80 percent of households since October 1st this year. The tariff will be equivalent to 44 per cent for those who consume less than 250 kilowatts per month. For those who consume more, the tariff will remain unchanged. Similarly, electricity tariffs will not increase. Four. The government, along with fellow members of the national parliaments, proposed that an additional 12 billion dollars be allocated this year to the grant program. Subsidies will be given to everyone who really needs them. Some 3 million households will receive them during the heating season. By the start of the heating season, we have absolutely enough money for all of these payments, and there's no debt for subsidies. All those in need of municipal subsidies will receive them, and we are not legally determining that this should be a specific number of families. Our strategy is to grant grants to anyone who really needs them. Fifth. Ukraine is ready for the heating season. The technical readiness of the regions is now more than 90 percent. The gas reserves in Ukraine’s underground gas shelters exceeded 18.5 billion cubic meters [18.5 billion cubic meters]. By comparison, in 2018 stocks for mid-October were 17.1 billion cubic meters, in 2017 they were 16.8 billion. So right now, we're going to have an absolutely orderly preparation to increase supplies, just like last year, we're going to go through this period peacefully, and the whole country will be warm. I named five key points regarding the heating season, the tariff theme, now some additional details and figures that will allow parliamentarians to understand the road map on which the government is running today. What we see with gas prices on European markets is the energy war that Gazprom has solved for blackmailing and exploiting North Stream-2. This is an obvious fact that is confirmed by the decline in exports from the Russian monopoly compared to previous years, and by the refusal to reserve additional capacity of the Ukrainian gas transport system. The spot price on European markets has reached a record in history, reaching over 25 dollars per cubic metre. In the fall and summer of this year, we understood the risks of such actions by the aggressor countries, and in order to ensure the steady passage of the heating season, to protect people from fluctuating prices to gas, we committed all gas-supply companies and to implement the annual product, and to automatically transfer all consumers to it. Hence, of May 1, the price of gas, such as Naftogazu, is 7 times 96 copies per cubic metre of gas, along with VAT. This price remains unchanged in October, January, February, as I said, during the whole heating season. People will understand how much gas will cost in winter and will understand their budget for utilities. Another issue that is now being heavily politicized is the issue of tariffs for hot and hot water. It's absolutely logical that housing and utilities should be carried out in practice by local authorities. That is why tariffs on hot and hot water set up local self - government. This is the right world practice. In Britain, Austria, or Canada, it is hard to imagine a government setting tariffs for every city or town. The correct formula is when a government formulates a strategy, it gives tools to the local government effectively implement this strategy in practice. That's what we did. To ensure that local authorities do not increase tariffs on hot and hot water, Naftogaz has offered a three - year gas supply contract for thermal power companies. It predicts a price per year from June 21st to May 22nd of the year, at a level of 7ths 42pcs per metre of cubic gas within the population-consuming volume. Naftogaz Trading in its three - year contracts offers gas for greenhouses who serve the population even cheaper than is now included in the structure of the heat tariff in some cities. So some cities today have more expensive gas in the structure of the tariff than one that is contracted in a three-year contract for this heating season. The advantage of transferring tariff decisions to places is that each local authority can easily approach tariff formation, differentiate them for different categories of consumers, take into account its own characteristics, resulting from equipment and networks, citizens' wealth, and the availability of alternative energy sources. Of course, in this situation, those citizens who cared for their infrastructure, those communities, more loyally, and those who cared for their infrastructure facilities in advance will win the most. Local self-governance authorities already have sufficient powers to generate differentiated tariffs on heat, depending on consumer categories. Tax payers should not cover the inefficiency of individual heat utilities and their managers from the State budget, and the responsibility of local managers should now be clearly followed. In particular, it is worth noting that the government has fulfilled its commitments to a memorandum with local heads signed this winter. In line with Law 1639, territorial commissions were established and a method was established for determining differences in tariffs, such as heat and hot water. This difference in the heat utility debt that will be verified, and then the TCM will be able to get compensation, as I said, for over 30 billion dollars. These steps will enable them to recover from their financial situation and to modernize them. Local authorities will receive a tool that can balance tariff issues. By closing the tariff issue, I will note that the important points are also about subsidies. The budget changes voted on in the first reading envision an increase of 12 billion dollars in funding for the grant program. The money that we have now, it's absolutely peaceful enough before the start of the heating season, we don't have any debt on subsidies. Nearly 3 million households will receive heating subsidies. In May, the government introduced new rules for obtaining subsidies that envision their full monetaryization and a more equitable approach to obtaining them. 85 percent of citizens were automatically reassigned, while others were required to submit appropriate applications for confirmation. Such changes are designed to ensure a fair approach to housing subsidies, which are made at the expense of the state budget, i.e. conscientious taxpayers. This year the government also called off the grant procedure, now it is not for 30 days, but for 10 days. So I'm going to add it up again for everyone. Heat and hot water tariffs should not increase; we help the local authorities to do so and are willing to continue to lay their shoulders. Gas prices won't go up. Electricity tariffs will be reduced for the vast majority of citizens from October 1 and will remain unchanged for the rest. The country is ready for the heating season. This year, we are very systematic about all of these issues, because we understand that the tariff theme is not only about energy, but also about just social policy. The government is increasing social benefits and pensions. In the last six months, the following pay increases were raised and adopted. Retirement index for nearly 9 million pensioners by 11 per cent, pension index for working pensioners, supplementation of 2 thousand dollars for military pensioners per month, increase of 2 - 2.5 thousand bracelets for disabled black people. Since October 1st, we have started for the first time in the history of pensioners over 75 years of age by 400 dollars. It was decided that from October of the following year, 300 dollars would also be paid to pensioners over 70 years of age. Let me remind you that last year we paid 500 dollars to pensioners over 80 years of age. And this is also the first time that this program worked for the initiative of the President of Ukraine. In fact, the steps listed are only part of how the government works to improve the social security of our citizens. We're very responsible and we're taking a systematic approach to this process. I would also like to consider some questions about the State Budget project for the following year. The budget defines the clear priorities of public policy for the 22nd year. This is an unprecedented increase in medical and medical expenses. This is an increase in education expenditure. Improving social protection, strengthening the country's security, and increasing the economy. The government has submitted this document in due time, and we expect it to be approved in the Parliamentary Hall in due time. This is a matter of great importance, for the timely adoption of the corrosive depends on the provision of basic social programs and support for Ukrainian citizens, including during the heating season. I look forward to a constructive discussion, and I am confident that we can do this together. More about basic indicators and innovations. For the first time in the history of independence, the budget was developed on the basis of a three-year budget declaration, a new system of budgetary planning that all developed countries use. The main resource was also designed to take into account the strategic documents of the government, the National Economic Strategy, as well as the fundamental programmes of the President of Ukraine and the programming vectors initiated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The budget is realistic, balanced, aimed at the development and modernization of our country. The document’s priorities can be seen by its numbers and parameters. Income and budgets will increase by 162 billion to 1 trillion 278 billion dollars. Expenditure will set 1 trillion 466 billion -- plus 103 billion dollars by this year. The budget deficit will fall to 3.5 percent of the planned 5.5 percent this year. Inflation will slow down to 6.2 percent. The government debt will decrease to 50.8 percent of GDP, which is expected to be 56.9 percent in 2021. Real GDP growth is expected at almost 4 percent, which will be a record in the last 10 years. One of the main priorities is the transformation of medicine and the support of our medics. The amount for medicine, relative to 2019, has been nearly doubled. The Health Guarantees Programme plans to allocate an unprecedented 158 billion dollars, 34 billion more in comparison to this year. Some 22 billion dollars, more than 5 billion this year, are planned to fight the coronavirus. The President's initiative will ensure an increase in salaries for Ukrainian doctors who continue to stand in front of the crown virus, and the minimum wage for a medical worker will be 20,000 dollars, while the younger medical staff, the average medical staff, will be 13,000 dollars. The doctor’s average salary at these rates will be 22.5 thousand dollars, at least, and the nurses will pay at least 14.5 thousand dollars. It's actually more than three years ago. 5.95 percent of GDP is planned for defence and security – a record level of funds throughout history. More than 15 billion dollars -- for housing, over 30 billion dollars for technology and arms -- plus 11 billion dollars for increased payments to the military. A substantial increase in expenditure will also be for education, infrastructure, digitisation, social programmes, pensions, business support. In particular, the government offers a resource of more than 120 billion dollars once again for road construction. The cost of education in the budget is more than 7 percent of the gross domestic product. The following year, nearly 7 billion dollars are projected to increase, and more than 8 billion dollars are offered for teachers ’ salaries. We are continuing the reform of the New Ukrainian School, which will allocate 1.4 billion dollars, spending on inclusive education and school feeding reform. The program can cover over 3,000 schools. For the first time since the 17th year, we've been planning to increase scholarships to Ukrainian students. From now on, the minimum level of scholarship in higher education institutions will be 2,000 dollars (plus 700 dollars), and in vocational and technical education institutions it will be 1,000 and 250 dollars. And a lot of other innovations in this budget. The government will continue to implement the Big Construction program of the President of Ukraine. Restoring 100 percent of roads of national importance is our goal. We continue to support the regions, with a total local budget of almost 590 billion dollars. And in addition, a lot of money is going to be spent on investment projects. We're working with international organizations, and the IMF mission is now under way. We're waiting for the macro-financial assistance tranche to come up. I wanted to personally thank you for adopting the laws that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us turn to questions to the Prime Minister of Ukraine from the MP factions and groups. Please sign up for the question. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u5	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u6	Mr. Prime Minister, please tell us how are you going to implement the 142th article of the Constitution, which provides that if you require something from local budgets, you should give them the funds? I, in particular, am in the context of setting tariffs in place, because you've transferred this issue to the local authorities. The other one. Why do the tariffs for budget organizations and OSBB, which have their own boilers, amount to 20-25 dollars per cubic meter? People are in shock, and this is a totally unacceptable situation. How are you going to decide that? And the third complex question. Why is there not enough funding for subsidies in the new budget? Because there was actually a critical amount, just as there was a critical small amount paid to doctors at the level of this year. How are you going to pay them 20,000 wages if this isn't budgeted?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u7	So first. The tariffs are being formed, I have already said, as in all developed countries (Canada, Austria, around Europe), tariffs are being developed by local governments. And the corresponding formation takes place in the heat utility companies that have to run their activities. Where local budgets cannot independently support the heat utility for objective reasons, of course, I have already stressed, the government, and, I am sure, Parliament is ready to base its shoulders with appropriate subsidies, grants, subsidies. So all these tools are present, there are, and we use them. And in talks with the heads of urban communities, we offer some suggestions to those who really need it, because, I emphasize, there are cities where the price of gas in tariffs for today's day is higher than the one where NAC Naftogaz is willing to supply gas under a three-year contract. With regard to other directions, the work is now carried out by the Ministry of Profiles in order for all people to go through this heating season calmly and be able to get gas at real prices. Regarding projected subsidies. The following year, there are 41 billion dollars in the budget, nearly 6 billion more than this year. We also plan to have enough at the Ministry's expense. Accordingly, if by the end of the year we see that people need more subsidies, you and I will be making decisions with the conviction of the budget to add. Just like last year, and this year. Regarding medical wages. I've already stressed the absolutely unprecedented increase in the budget for medical needs, where there's absolutely enough wages for medical and medical personnel. I told you, the average wage is going to be 22.5 thousand and 14.5.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u8	Thank you. Jaroslav Železniak, the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u9	Please pass the word to the members of our faction, Inni Sowsun.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u10	I am pleased to give the floor to the members of your faction, Inni Sowsun. Please, Mrs. Inno.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u11	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Mr. Prime Minister, I have two questions for you and I very much ask you to answer both. Question one. Today, media outlets have reported that NAC Naftogaz has asked the government to allocate additional funds to buy gas. There are two reasons why this need has arisen: this is a rise in prices in Europe, but also artificially low prices for consumers here in Ukraine. Please comment on this situation. The reasons for this situation? How do you plan to react? The second question is a question that I've talked to you about over and over again about setting up oxygen stations. I already know that on September 1, the Ministry of Health approached you, pointing out that they lack 1.1 billion to install oxygen stations. On Wednesday in government, you said you needed to urgently allocate 395 million to install oxygen stations. Please comment on why nothing was done this summer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u12	So, about NAC Naftogaz. I've already commented that 18.5 billion cubic metres of gas is attached to the shelter this year, more than in previous years for this period. Planned activities continue. According to NAC Naftogazu's head, Naftogazu's planned activity costs are quite enough. Liquidity in accounts is there, costs in Naftogazu accounts are there, liquidity is happening. In fact, quite a lot of money has been channeled by Naftegas NAC to secure the gas supply in the shelter, and it's a natural process for this time. In the future, of course, NAC Naftogaz will carry out a planned activity in accordance with the budgets they have at their disposal. With regard to other questions, please contact the company if you are interested in more detailed information on this issue. The head is open and ready. Nak Naftogazu's head is open and ready to give all the answers. It's about oxygen stations. During the summer, many medical facilities replaced centralized oxygen supplies. And you know that, because in the summer we started our conversation with 800 million dollars. Now you need less than 390 million. And then we do inventory and look at what other needs are needed. We're ready to put them on the table and vote now, the budget changes to the 21st year budget, which yesterday, thank you, were supported in the first reading. The costs needed to provide centralized oxygen supply will be set aside. But in general, I'm stressing again, as of today, 99 percent of the first-wave bed and more than 97 percent of the city's total of 90,000 is provided with oxygen for the needs of aquatic patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u13	Thank you. Dmitri Black, "Serial of the People" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Maxim Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u15	Please, Maxim Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, please tell me why the state budget is being converted into a maintenance tool for Sergey Leschchenk. Please tell me, why is the renewed contract for his return to the supervisory board of the U.S.A.? Why? 300,000 dollars a month, this parasite was getting from the government budget, not realizing what it was doing and you're restoring it? Why did the Ministry of Infrastructure turn into a feeding facility for former members of the BP — Najema and Lechchenka? Who's asking you to do this, who's forcing you to reconcile these candidates, say? It's such a shame. We can't explain to our electorate what happens once in a while. Is Mustafa Najam an infrastructure expert? No, it's not. Is Sergey Lechchenko an expert on railways? No, it's not. What are you doing?Oh, my God! It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. No one is forcing anyone to do anything, nominees from state officials agree with ministers, and in this case also candidates are accepted by the Minister of Infrastructure. Well, deeper answers, I think he'll give the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u18	Your position, as Prime Minister, please tell her.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u19	The members of the Supervisory Boards, which are agreed upon and served by ministers and ministries, review the Cabinet of Ministers and take a joint position. [[B in m in s a l in]] I answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u20	Thank you. Next question from Valery Fighter faction "The Opposition Platform for Life"
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u21	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to give me another answer. 49 constituency, Gnatenko, Donetskina. Recently, this week, the Cabinet of Ministers in the Ministry of Finance presented a draft budget for the following year. This budget has a lot of risks, personally with regard to social standards and, most importantly, with regard to subsidies. This question has already been raised and I want to stress it again. Because we're seeing this year, that mistake that happened, we've already corrected it this week, and we've counted up to 36 billion another 12 billion, that is 48 billion. And again in the next budget, we're also making this mistake. We now have 41 billion in the draft budget on grants. We can see that the new tariffs for these sums are clearly not enough. Why do this if you can put the full amount into the budget right now, which will take into account all the demand for subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u22	Thank you for your question, it really cares about people and is very important. I'm going to point out that the planned figure of 41 billion is 6 billion more than planned this year. It is very important that the State has fulfilled its obligations under grants at all times. It's also what we understand with you, and it's always responsible for the government, and Parliament is working together to allocate the funds needed to pay the subsidies. It was last year, it is this year, and it will be next year. People will be provided with subsidies by 100 percent under any circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u23	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Please, Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u24	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, something doesn't add up, you know. You're saying that all the city heads are satisfied, the heat utility is satisfied. I have here a letter from the Association of Ukrainian Cities, a warmcommunergo, a union for the prime minister, for the President, for the Supreme Council, where they say the situation is catastrophic. I just got off the phone with two hot comms. I'm not going to tell the city, because you're going to strangle them after that, the district centers. They told me that calculated tariff heat must rise by 40 percent, for the budget by 100 percent, by the way. By the way, you didn't say anything about a subsidy to cover this difference in tariffs, not this season, but the next. So who's misleading, excuse me? That's the first question. The other one. NAK Naftogazu's financial plan does not allow the purchase of imported gas and gas, which is in the vaults, to be understood. We have to deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u25	Thank you. The gas that is in the shelters, in the Ukrainian vaults, in the Ukrainian company NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, will all be used for the purposes of the Ukrainian population, the Ukrainian industry, as it always was. In terms of heat and tariffs. I didn't say a word that someone was pleased. The situation is extremely difficult. I say again, the price of gas in Europe is 25 dollars per metre per cubic meter per count. As a government, together with Parliament, with you, honourable members of the people, we have secured the President of Ukraine's initiative, the price of 7.96 NAC Naftogazu for the population, 7.42 for the heat utility, for the needs of the population. We also work with local managers to ensure that the tariffs set by local authorities today and that they form enterprises, I remind you, are adequate and do not increase compared to the previous heating season. To that end, of course, the State has already allocated more than 30 billion dollars to compensate for the differences in tariffs in the past periods that will be made accordingly. And this is exactly the shoulder that I said we're ready to set up local self-government and TKE businesses. Of course, today we need to talk about improving the efficiency of the thermal power plant. And we haven't talked to you once before, Mr. People's MP, about how well you know where the resources and reserves are in the work of the utilities. Of course, today we need to be responsible, just as the government and parliament today are responsible, and local leaders need to take up their responsibilities. And not just the leaders, but the local authorities also need to look at the issues of support for the heat utility at the level of government to also include local budgets where possible. Where this is not possible, there will be central authority in government and parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u26	Thank you. Anatoly Urbansky, Faction Party for the Future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u27	Good afternoon. Please pass the word to Anna Speedhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u28	Please, Mrs. Anna Speedboat. You probably forgot to turn the card on. Please, your time is coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u29	I put in a card. Mr. Prime Minister, please tell me why they're shutting down schools where 80 percent of teachers are not vaccinated. It is a feeling that another 20 percent simply do not get sick and that children do not communicate with their teachers or get sick. Why are teachers taking away bonuses and allowances and threatening their release if they do not get the vaccine? That's the first one. And the second. According to the Ombudsperson, 1.5 billion in debt for payments, including fighting, to our protectors. These people are standing on the front. Why is it impossible to control payments to those who protect us in the most difficult times in the country? And the third. Are you canceling the election of Director-General NIEZ "Pereaslav" Lukasevic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u30	Thank you. So first. The responsibility of educators before children and their parents, and in front of their colleagues, of course, should be extremely high. And of course, in the yellow zone, we're talking about 80 percent of the educational groups should be vaccinated with at least one dose of vaccines to protect themselves and children, our children, from the spread of infection. In the red zone, it has to be 100 percent and two doses of vaccination for the collective, in order, of course, to ensure once again the spread of pandemics in educational institutions. So today, I've already told you, gardens, special educational institutions and secondary schools, primary school (1-4 classes) are also working in the yellow zone. But of course, we expect at least 80 percent vaccination, at best there would be 100 percent of the vaccine teachers and groups. It's not just about teachers, you're right, it's very important for a community of teachers to be vaccinated. In the red areas, this will be a mandatory requirement — 100 percent with a full vaccination course. It's responsible. The whole world has seen history, such as in the United States, when a teacher became sick and infected with more than half a class with a coronavirus. And this is what happens to people today. So it's primarily about responsibility. Regarding the fairy tale of the military debt, I would like to point out that there is a current debt, not a fixed debt, but the current one — this is very important — after the payout for the military. There's no debt on the battlefield -- they're also fairy tales that spread on different, I don't know, channels and so on. The Budget Change Act adopted yesterday as a basis for the first reading of the book deals with all the issues, even at current debts, here are the recovery and recovery payments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u31	Thank you. Alexander Sukhov has a question, "Trust Group," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Mikola Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u33	Please, Mikola Babenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u34	Grandma Mikola, Trust MP, White Church. Mr. Prime Minister, I hope you're informed that today in the 59 largest cities of Ukraine, heat-communerable accounts are blocked. This was due to the fact that in due time the government did not compensate for the difference in tariffs for the gas consumed. These are huge debts: 250 million in the White Church, 9 billion in Kiev. I have a specific question for you. We've got a month before the heating season. And I think, given that the colds came a lot earlier, we need to start now. When will the accounts be unlocked so that businesses can prepare for the heating season? I have a specific question. Please specify a date when you will take action to unlock accounts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u35	I repeat, 90 percent of Ukraine is ready for the hot season. With regard to the issues of heatcommuneering, the individual issues of various heatcommunners, more than 200 in large and medium-sized cities, more of them in general. Some of them have debt problems, and they are dealt with in conjunction with local authorities. In particular, the heat and electricity you have mentioned are being carried out. Now there's work to be done to lift the ban on accounts. The payment of the debt by difference, I have also mentioned on a number of occasions today, will be effected this year for the next month and a half. That's what the profile two ministries are working on, and the Naftogaz NAK. More than 30 billion dollars are planned for this purpose. [[B in m in s a l in]] The heating season will be started and done in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Thank you, Prime Minister. We are now moving on to questions to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and members of the government from the national MPs. Please register with the national deputies for a question. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Zdebski Jury Viktorovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u37	I'd like to give Galina Mikhailuk a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u38	Galina Mikhailuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u39	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister. I have a question for you. By 2015, the network of state medical facilities at Ukrzalznice had been maintained at the expense of the state budget and the cost of working groups of railways. After the inclusion of the clinics in the Public Shareholder Association in 2015 with the status of structural units in the branch of the Health Centre, state funding stopped and the hospital collapsed, they lost legal status. The goal of the Health Center is to sell hospitals as non-profile assets. And all of this is done in quarantine. Mr. Prime Minister, we need to hand over the railway hospitals to cover, give them legal status and get them out of the Urzalznice, transfer them to the Ministry of Health and create university clinics or emergency clinics on their base. Mr. Prime Minister, when will this be done? Because we have a social state under the Constitution, and everything needs to be developed primarily for citizens, residents of this territory or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. I will ask the Minister of Infrastructure to provide a comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u41	Good afternoon. There really is such a question. We work with the Ministry of Health. As far as I know, however, most hospitals and clinics have already been transferred to district authorities and local authorities. Eight major hospitals remain in Ukraine’s largest cities, and we will define their fate with the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u42	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Guzu Igor Volodimirovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u43	Good afternoon, Denise Anatolyovich. See, you were assigned on March 4, 2020. We've got four majors from Volina. You've never been to one of us before. I suggest you go to the region a little bit more often. If the Prime Minister has been working for 1.5 years and has never come to the region, that is, in my view, negative. One second. I represent the mining city of Novovolinsk, where there is actually the only mine that is being built -- 10 mines, and two other mines. There's a lot of problems. I'd like your personal intervention. I know there's a project approved -- the transformation of coal regions, that's good. But let's try to get inside the Prime Minister's level by explaining to the main figures (these are city leaders, mine managers, trade unions) what the future of coal regions is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u44	Thank you. I will gladly respond to Volin. I haven't really been there on a work visit yet. As far as mine issues are concerned, let's start with the profile ministry, study every problem in each mine, and I'm totally ready to join. And I will also ask the minister to answer this question more deeply.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. In fact, daily communication with the director of the mine, respectively, and Volina, is the same, so. So we're open to any kind of discussion of any issues that are in business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u46	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Zuba Valery Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u47	Good afternoon. Please pass the word to Prostuce Edward.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u48	Edward Prostzek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u49	Edward Proschtuk, 85th constituency, Attitude. I have a question for Mr. Laska, Minister of Health. To date, there has been a critical situation in the region of Ivano-Frankiv to provide patients with transplanted organs with treatments due to the absence of centralized supplies at the expense of the state budget under the programme “Providing health care for individual government programs and complex programming measures” in the area of drug and medical supplies for patients. Especially in the region of Ivano-Frankow 33 communities, there are 75 patients with transplanted organs who need appropriate drugs. The estimated cost requirement for September-December this year is 6 million dollars, which local communities are unable to predict on demand. We all know that at this point there is no possibility in the community. Then I have a question. Why is the centralized supply of these drugs discontinued? I also ask for comprehensive measures to be taken to address this issue, including the proposal to provide for a targeted grant from the State budget at the time of the State supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u50	Good afternoon. Thank you for asking. This summer, the Ukrainian government raised the rates for transplants, including double the rates for kidney, liver and bone marrow transplants, plus adding 130 million bracelets to buy drugs that should be used by people who have undergone organ transplants. As for the situation in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, I will consider your address to be a parliamentary statement, and we will consider it within a week. All patients who need drugs will be provided by means of redistribution from other regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u51	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy Boris Viktorovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u53	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u54	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have a question for Mr. Galuchenko's Energy Minister. So far, there are legal problems in fiscal enterprises: there are no mechanisms to move to the last hope provider. These are businesses that work in cities. The price of gas has tripled. Budgets just can't handle that kind of pressure. What is Minenergo planning to do in this direction? And in the context of that question, the second question. Is a subsidy planned to compensate the difference in tariffs for local budgets? And the third question. What Should I Do With Cities? 60 cities – we have practically thermal utility companies blocked, blocked accounts because the law that regulated these relationships was signed too late. What is the Ministry of Energy planning to do in this direction? Answer these three questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. In fact, in that case, yes, the last-hop provider will be Naftogaz. And as far as security is concerned, all consumers will be provided with the necessary volume of gas. Regarding the difference in subsidy. The question is now being discussed, we are working with Naftogaz and with the National Regulatory Commission (NCREKP) on how. and along with other ministries, how it is possible to cover the difference and at the expense of what. In particular, as one of the elements is the possibility of processing a certain service to be provided by Naftogaz regarding the necessary measures to implement Espo’s treaties. Another direction, one of which is now being worked, is that Naftogaz can provide the same amount of supply. And in this respect, we don't see any risks, all consumers will be adequately provided with gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u56	The word is given to national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u57	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to ask the Prime Minister, because I know exactly what the Association of Ukrainian Cities and the leaders of the united territorial communities of satellite cities have sent you a letter asking you to close the gap in tariffs, which is very large in terms of the abnormal state tariff policy. And it's been going on for years. I'm the city's head of former exclamation points. Now speaking to the mayors of cities, and at which point it measures not only small cities, the districts that were formed there, but also district cities, which clearly say that public policies to compensate for the differences in government tariffs are very bad. So I'm asking you, what mechanisms are envisaged to cover this difference in tariffs? And in satellite cities, cancel this reverse grant that you're taking away local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u58	Thank you for your question, distinguished national MP. I was just talking about it from the rostrum today. You probably didn't hear it. The government is planning to fully implement the terms of the memorandum signed last winter with all the city mayors, where there is a corresponding heat utility and where there is a difference in tariffs that was created in previous periods, to our government, really when inefficient policy was. This is planned to allocate over 30 billion dollars, this year will be allocated, and this debt will be closed. It is the government's contribution to improving the situation in the heat utility industry, allowing them to conduct their activities, obtain credits, increase efficiency, and increase the efficiency of the heat utility managers to be more effective. That's why this job is done. The memorandum is being implemented and will be implemented with the local authorities and the Association of Ukrainian Cities. And according to the heating season, we're going to go according to plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u59	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Germany, Vasil Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u60	Please pass the word to Vladi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Frost. Turn on the freezer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u62	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to listen very carefully to me, because I am writing letters to the Minister of Energy, to the Minister of Reintegration, and I am not being heard. Listen, please, carefully. In the front cities: in Marjanc, Krasnovec, Gornik, Novogrodovitsa there is no central heating at all, i.e. from the word "at all". These people are burning in a rosette, you know, 1 bracelet is 68. People will come into the cold and die from shells and our utility. Let's draw up some pieces of legislation for these cities. Please listen to me: there's a collapse, there's a war, there's a COVID, and there's 68 bracelets of electricity. They're all shutting down.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u63	Dear National Deputy, we accept your appeal as a deputy, and the Department of Defense will be tasked with handling what you have just heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u64	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Bakumov, Alexander Sergiyyovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u65	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to give the floor to the national MP, Maxim Dirdin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u66	Maxim Dirdin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u67	Thank you. I want to point out the positive trends in Kabmin and the National Regulatory Service of Ukraine, which in two months was reviewed by 3,000, 594, acts of local self-government -- it's good for business and entrepreneurs and it's good for business. And there's about a minus, minus the next. You are well aware that, since September 1, this year, the Court of Appeal has revoked the Cabinet’s Order of 13 May 2020 on the release of Przegorjelov from the post of head of the State Reserve, and the Court has by its decision obliged Kabmin to reinstate Przegorjelov as head of the Reserve. Today, September 24th, and I remind you that according to the current legislation, the decision of the Court of Appeal is legally binding from the moment it is declared. Questions to you. Will you, as head of the government, carry out the decision of the court to reinstate the post of head of the Jaroslav Pogorjelov State? And if so, when? If not, why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. The State Reserve is in the Department of Economics, so I will ask the First Deputy Minister of Economic Affairs to give an exhaustive answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u69	Dear Mr. Maxime, the decision of the court of the Ministry of Economics will be carried out. Since the Court’s decision is universally binding in Ukraine under the Constitution, the Ministry will be obliged to carry out the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u70	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of the Fungi of Victoria, Alexandrovni, a nonfractional one. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the situation today in the energy sector is critical. And unfortunately, when we saw the budget presented by the government, there's more than 7 billion dollars missing. In order for us to go through the heating season and other seasons in the future, we need to add that 7 billion today. For our part, we're going to add these 7 billion, and I very much ask all the national MPs to support and vote. But today we cannot treat the coal sector that way. We can see with you what gas prices are today. If we don't support the coal sector today, we don't have any energy at all. We're not going to be an independent state. Because we understand that there is always a political element behind the economy. Please support these extras.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u72	I'll ask the Minister of Energy to comment on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. In fact, the budget that is presented is accepted and duly approved in such an editorial. For our part, we will do our utmost to ensure that the coal industry and the passage through, the peaceful passage of the heating season, work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u74	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u75	Kitzak Bogdan, "Serve of the People", Berdichiv district of Žitomirsk district. Denis Anatoliyovich, I have a few questions for different ministers. First. To the Minister of Education regarding the food programme that is now in existence and is being implemented in various Ukrainian communities. Your decision was to compensate for the cost of food for the categories of benefits, and this sum is entirely on the budgets of the communities. The question is, how will you solve this problem? The other one. To the Secretary of Defense. There is a program and a huge problem of housing for the military. And the question is, what is the level of absorption? And how many have been built, reconstructed, renovated barracks in Ukraine, military units, and dining rooms? And to the Minister of Internal Affairs. What's the situation with Sergei the Chief and the attack on him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u76	I'll ask Mrs. Horn's Deputy Minister of Health to answer the first part of the question, Minister Taran to answer the second part of the question and the Minister of Internal Affairs to the third part of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u77	Thank you for asking. Eating. The 1-4 classes we're dealing with are really still there, and all the other categories are funded from the local budget. We are now doing a very big job on this very issue. And the answer, of course, is to all departments, because we're gathering all the information that's going on on September 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u78	Is anyone else going to answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u79	Yeah. We have the reply of Minister Taran and the reply of the Minister of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u80	Thank you for asking. Today, we have 600 million to build. The legal commitments for the present time amount to 332,6 million dollars, of which 106,444, 000 million have been funded, allowing the construction of housing units to be completed, from which two housing units are planned to be brought to nearly 20 million dollars. The building of a barracks in Odessa is reconstructed at 16.7 million dollars. The construction of six dormitories at 156 million dollars is completed. Construction of 3-5-floor housing units is under way for 120 apartments in the village of Klugino-Baschirovka. Transferred to the balance sheet of the residential and maintenance department of Volodymyr-Wallinsky's 44th apartment building. Military personnel and their families have been paid for a sum of 201 million dollars for housing. In 2021, under a contract made last year under the conditions of the Ministry of Defense's rations, 250 apartments have already been paid for, at 210 million dollars. In connection with the restructuring of the building and the formation of three territorial offices, the cost of 436 million dollars is proposed to be redistributed to the military and their families for adequate housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u81	Thank you. Let me put it this way, I'd like to ask one minister, not three. And I'd like to ask the camera to make sure that two minutes is given in full, not every minister in response. The word is given to National Deputy Kachuri Alexandr Anatolyyevich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People" and that is where we end up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u82	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the honorable government! You know, I'm going to have a very difficult, but at the same time a simple question. The draft budget submitted by your government to Parliament provides that the subsistence minimum will be 2,000 393 dollars and the pension will be 1,000 934 dollars. In order for a pensioner to go to a pharmacy, he needs to leave 2,000 pennies at least right now, not to mention eating, not to mention paying for a "communal" and living for something to wear. So my question is, how do people live? That's the first question. The second question. My colleagues and I worked on Bill 3515, which changes the methodology of the very issue of subsistence minimum. And that should be 40 percent of the average wage and plus one percent every year. So if now, for example, a living minimum of this, if we adopt a bill, it's going to be over 5,000 dollars. Will you support our bill by government or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u83	I'm going to ask you in more detail to answer the question of Social Policy Minister Marina Lazebna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u84	Thank you for asking. Dear National MP, you know, and we've been discussing for a long time what has matured and in time reformed the subsistence minimum. There are several bills. And we are ready to unite with you and the bill adopted at first reading 3515, and we support and want to work on it. Without this reform, we will not be able to move along with you if all that is possible is tied to the subsistence minimum. Now it's about the minimum retirement age. Yes, we do have an increase of 8.2 percent in the budget. But the government is making a coherent programme to raise minimum pensions for people and only during the period we work has the average pension increased from 3,000 dollars to 3,000 dollars. And you see our constant programs, our targeted programs to support people, people who are not working and pensioners. So we're going to keep moving like this, but the minimum of living reform has really matured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. Let us thank the Government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today is given to you. A proposal was made here. But before we go over these issues, I have three applications for intermission breaks. I invite Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna to speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Aah! You're going to be on the 12th, aren't you? Okay. Then I invite Polack Anton Eduardoovich. Polakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u86	Dear Ukrainians! In 2019, in the parliamentary elections, there were still candidates from the "Slut of the People" party who signed this memorandum, which required them to be present at all plenary meetings. They also committed themselves voluntarily to deputizing in the event of a violation of the memorandum. I mean, people who weren't present yesterday at an extra session, they have to put together their parliamentary powers. This is the 173 "ministers of the people," I'll read you their names: Aleksiychuk, Ananchenko, Aristov, Babak, Beleneuk, Bogicka, Bondar, Borzova, Bragar, Bunin, Vasilevska-Smagluk, Vasilev, Vereshtuk, Galusko, Gerasimenko, Herus, Gorbenko, Gorobec, Greenchuk, Grishenko, Guzenko, Gurin, Didenko, Dmituk, Dubnov, Zablochlocko, Zablocko, Zablun, Bogdan, Bodenko, Buhlach, Bulah, Vagnjez, Vasilov, Kasilkovsky, K. Leonov was. Lichman, Lashenko, Mandji, Marusak, Miseghin, Movchan, Motovilovac, Nagaevsky, Naletov, Negulewski, Nesterenko, Novikov, Odarchenko, Pavlish, Pashkovski, Petrunjak. There was no substratum, which led the FNL for the support of the FOPs. Poturiev, Prostuk, Puškarenko, Raducki, Ryabucha, Saladuha, Salichuk, Kinsburg, Kovalkov, Kovalczuk, Koleboshin, Car, Koravchenkov, Kravčuk, Krovoshev, Kubbit, Kuzminy, Kunaev, Laba, Lis. And two more sheets of these traitors. Ukrainians need to know these names. I won't be able to read it all. I'm going to publish this list on my telegram, on my Facebook, so that the next time you come to the next parliamentary or local elections, when you see these families, you know you can't vote for them in any way. They betrayed 2 million Ukrainian entrepreneurs. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u87	Another break with a replacement for the performance. "The opposition platform is for life." Who's speaking? Vasil Ivanovich, right? Please, Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u88	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm almost okay with yesterday's sequel. I have given the presiding decision of the Constitutional Court on the irregularity of opening an extraordinary session, the illegality and unconstitutionality of the Chairman's actions, which has begun the work of Parliament, the legislative body in an unconstitutional manner and in violation of the Constitution's rules. I want to give you article 91 of the Constitution, but you know it. I'm going to read the Constitutional Court's ruling on this issue so that we don't have to be loud and all interpretations don't arise. The Supreme Council is able to enact laws and implement them when their constitutional powers are available – 300 persons are. And secondly, the decision-making power of the Supreme Council can only be exercised by the presence, presence and support of the law of 226 votes in the voting room. Dear colleagues, this is the decision of the Constitutional Court, it lives and cannot be removed or erased, all the more so. I want to pass this decision on specifically to the presiding officer. [[Unheard]] Please, while I was teaching, I'll leave this time. Dear colleagues, we've come across what? What eight drafts were put in place for consideration, six of which were buried yesterday, resulting from the improper conduct of the session. This is called legislative cannibalism. We ourselves, the legislative body, the subject of the legislative initiative into the unconstitutional instrument, are putting it into the hall to be cut down, burying the very bills that people under the Supreme Council were waiting for. It was these bills that predicted a simplification of their actions. It's these bills that protect the people you made pilgrims who wander around the world, who sleep under benches to make a living. And so we go in and we make a decree to vote, change our minds, and get out of why we stopped the session yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I have another break. But we agreed that after we consider the next bill, we would give the floor to the representatives of the EU. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't understand. This has already been the case for all who have applied, and there have already been two appearances. May I ask? Can Vasil Ivanovich, for one second as a constitutional authority expert, come up for one second, so I can ask you who you were taking a break with? Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the law. Dear colleagues, we are now going to consider a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the recognition of Ukrainian citizens deported, who were forcibly relocated from the territory of the Polish People's Republic in 1944-1951 (registration number 2038). Before we go to his consideration, I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified way. It takes 150 votes to make a decision. Please support and vote. [[11:21:30.]] For-187 Decision taken. Let's go. I give the floor to the reporter, Ukrainian national deputy Rublova Vejacheslav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u90	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The bill we have here, in the walls of the Supreme Council, was similar to that of the last cadence. Sadly, he was unable to be examined. I believe that in this box today we will be able to accept it at least in the first reading. Since September 19th, he's been in Parliament's walls, passing two committees. And I can honestly tell you that from 44 to 51, the deportation of Ukrainians who were in the territory of the Republic of Poland is a tragedy that we have to admit. And when this bill was in Parliament's walls, we've seen many times that public organizations are turning, descendants are turning, those who are still being resettled accordingly. This concerns every Ukrainian. And I believe that the bill will be adopted today. I ask you all to support him. Maybe there's a note, we can fix it for the second reading if there's no other proposal. But I'll tell you, this is a bill where deputies of different factions are signed. I would like to thank both Father Taras Ivanovich and Irina Miroslavni, who initiated these bills and in the past of the cadence, Dmitri Lubintz, who passed this bill through his committee. I believe that by remembering the past, we as Ukrainians have a future. I believe that a decision will be made today and that the deportation of the Ukrainian people will be recognized for the first time. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u91	Thank you, Vyachelav Volodymyrovich. The word is given to the co-reporter, the head of the Committee on Human Rights, the Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Inoccupied Areas in Donetsk, the Luhansk Region, and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol, the national minorities and the international relations of Dmitr Valeriovich Lubinci. Please, Dmitri Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u92	Good day, Your Honor, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Indeed, this bill, which we are considering today, aims to restore social justice by recognizing the forced displacement of Ukrainians in 1944-1951 from their permanent residence in the territory of the People's Republic of Poland by deportation and by making reparations for moral and material damage, by establishing social benefits for people affected by such deportation. Dear colleagues, we even have the Supreme Council Order, which was adopted on November 8, 2018, where we honor the Day of Remembrance of Ukrainian Victims of Forced Migration from these very territories. On May 6, 20th, our committee reviewed the bill. We decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of the first reading. Also, honourable colleagues, in the conclusion of the GNEU, there are indeed observations, many of them. But we think that before the second reading, we can take them all into account, draft the bill and vote and adopt it in the session room. For us, it's a question of establishing historical justice, social justice. So the MP's Party for the Future, our committee, we unanimously decided to vote in favour, to support the legislative initiative. So I urge the entire session room to unite, to vote, and to show that we are not forgetting the tragic pages of our Ukrainian history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u93	Thank you, Dmitri Valeriovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to Bragar Eugen Volodymyrovich, "Serve of the people," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u94	Good afternoon. I'm Eugene Vadimovich, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u95	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u96	As for the deportation of Ukrainians from the territory of Poland, from the so - called Zakersonne. It's a pretty important event, and we have a lot of determination to condemn any deportations carried out by the Stalin regime, including the Ukrainians, including the Crimean Tatars, including other peoples of the Soviet Union. As a descendant of those displaced from the territory of the People's Republic of Poland, I must say that Ukrainians lost their homes, lost their property and lost their roots, and were forced to move to other territories and start their lives again. And we should be determined to condemn and remember them, and remember their Fatherland, the Ukrainian Zacherson. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u97	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Andriy Andriyovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u98	Please pass it on to Password Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u99	Roman Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u100	Roman Lozinski, “Justice. ” When we talk about deported people, we need to understand what we're talking about in real lives, people's fates, the fates of families and large families. In my great-grandfather's 39th year, he was sent to Siberia, where he didn't come back. In the 40th year, my grandmother was sent to Kazakhstan, evicted, she returned, but unfortunately not to her home. These two stories are not now related to the history of funnels, but they relate to the history of humans. Thousands of funnel families, tens of thousands of displaced families, need justice. For years there were bills in this room, and for years this hall had not considered them. And it's very good and very right that we're now going back to that question. We need to restore justice. We need to make up for at least a fraction of the grief that families in the 20th century have experienced, sadly, in their real days, in their families, and in their lives. Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to support this bill, but along with dozens of organizations deported, along with dozens of organizations that unite the people concerned. I urge and urge us to do a second reading of it, to make sure that people get as much fair compensation as possible and how they can count these compensations as possible, so that they don't just be the sums they give to these people, but that they're consistent with what property they've lost. And it is vital to extend the law to heirs in order to restore justice to the funnels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u101	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Gerasim Arthur Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u102	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u103	Sophia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u104	Honorable colleagues may find it difficult to find a person who is more dependent on this bill being adopted. And I'll start by thanking you for taking him to the session room today. On behalf of the World Federation of Ukrainian Lemkova Associations, which I have had the privilege of leading, on behalf of hundreds of thousands of funnels, I must stress that today is indeed a time-consuming task for Parliament to begin the formal process of recognizing the deportation of the Ukrainians of Zakersonj 1944-1951 as a crime against the Ukrainian people. We have to remember that today we are talking about the fates of more than 700,000 Lemkowščina, Nadsenja, Holmščina, Lubavščina, South Podlišća, Western Boykovščina, whose Communist regimes have been deported only by one sign -- they were Ukrainians. But I also have to point out that while European Solidarity fully supports this bill for the second reading, we have a list of issues that need to be reconciled, in particular, with the Law on Rehabilitation of Victims of Repression, with the historical documents, with the Civil Code, with the Law on Rehabilitation of Victims of Repression, once again, the Bill on Foreign Ukrainians. I must also point out that the Social Policy Committee has just passed Bill 4480, which, as a result of the replacement of three words, provides State support to the victims of deportation. And that's why I'm going to the Parliament, and I'm going to the leadership as soon as possible next plenary week, and I'm going to put Bill 4480 to the vote in the session room. And I very much ask everyone to settle down now so that the crime of the deportation of the Zakersonne Ukrainians is finally condemned at the state level.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u105	The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Mikhail Mikhailovich Cimbaluk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u106	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honourable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, Honourable National Deputies, Highly Decent Representatives of the Ukrainian People of Lemka! Indeed, it is a very relevant and painful subject, because tens of thousands of Ukrainians have been torn from the lands where they have lived for centuries and displaced, and tens of years the funnels have walked and begged the authorities to recognize their rights — the rights to exist and to support the state. The bill is not timely, but too late. But the task is to adopt it in the first reading, and to make it balanced and whole, to take into account what the colleague said when he spoke to me. Next thing. We should remember clearly that this bill does not in any way affect the current leadership of the friendly Polish People’s Republic, bearing in mind that it is a strategic partner and lawyer of Ukraine in the world. With this bill, we establish justice and support those people who, unfortunately, are getting smaller and smaller. The "Paternity" team will vote in favour on the first reading, but as always, we will work on the second one to become the bill expected by Ukrainians, immigrants from Poland, Slovakia and other lands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u107	Thank you. Anyone else want it? Taras Ivanovich Batenko. Is anyone else going to ask for words? If not, after that. And I see, Sergey Volodymyrovich Shahov. And then we go to the vote. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u108	Lemkovščina, Nadsenje, Holmščina, South Podlišča, Lubavščina, Western Boykovščina. Some 700,000 Ukrainians, ethnic Ukrainians, who have been subjected to repression, have been forced from their homes. For 30 years these people have waited for this law and many have not waited. For five years we have stormed the conciliatory councils, for factions and halls, and this is the second Parliament that I am storming with my colleagues, thanks to Vejacheslav Rublov, and we have not voted in favour of this law. Do you think we're talking about historical justice? So show us this historical justice right now. Let us vote with solidarity so that people will remember that we can in any way compensate those who are alive, for the celebration of historical justice must be. And we need to keep in mind that we need to keep in mind the history and worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u109	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. And then we go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u110	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, we will support the bill of our colleagues and historical justice must take place. But we are living in today’s world and see what is happening in the eastern part of the country. With living people who are still, praise be to God, live and bereaved of homeless people throughout the country. See what is being done in a gray area where troops are being taken away, where shots are being fired today, and people are not being resettled today. Look what the soldiers who have already won have been demolished, but they have been given no housing, nothing. Look what they're doing to the displaced -- 1 million 700,000 displaced people came to a peaceful Ukraine, they believed the government would be okay, they'd be helped. Today, there are 400 dollars in the family. Is it possible to survive for 400 dollars of taxes from authorities that do not think of Ukrainians today? Is it possible to survive without a kindergarten or a school for a child today? Think.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill has been finalized. Please take up your jobs. I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the recognition of Ukrainian citizens deported, who were forcibly relocated from the territory of the Polish People's Republic in 1944-1951 (project registration number 2038). Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:37:23]] For 294 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I was approached by factions’ leaders and was asked to bring the matter up for discussion so that today, as we sometimes do on Friday, we could change our plan a little. Short cut, yeah. That's us. Do you want a short cut? There is a proposal then, we have not yet come out of this question, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, to vote on the proposal to cut down half the sentences and amendments and prepare for the second reading a bill (registration number 2038) amending some Ukrainian legislation on the recognition of Ukrainian citizens deported who were forcibly displaced from the territory of the Polish People's Republic in 1944-1951. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:38:32]] For 297 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, back to that offer. The suggestion was to cancel the break from 12 to 12:30. We're working without a break until 12:30, at 12:30, we start reading queries. We'll vote the President's questions first, then we'll read the questions. And then cancel "Vazne" and finish the job at 1:00. Is such an offer accepted? Let's vote then. Please support and vote. [[11:39:13]] For 280 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Then we'll work in the voted format. I'm moving on. The next question (project registration number 5767) is the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:39:51]] For 232 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of the First Deputy Minister of Culture and Information Policy, Karandiev Rostislav Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u112	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! For the purpose of establishing the State Award for Music Art, the State Prize for the Name of Miroslav Skorik, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the President of Ukraine, is a draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes. The establishment of the State Music Award will logically complement the list of cultural badges and create powerful motivational factors for the development of Ukrainian music in all possible forms of creative activity – the composer, the performer, the music scientist. The President of Ukraine decided to award the prizes of the name Miroslav Skorik, the national legend of Ukraine, the Hero of Ukraine, one of the leading representatives of the Ukrainian composer school, teacher, conductor, pianist, musician, winner of numerous national and international awards and prizes, the author of outstanding musical works that have been duly incorporated into the world's artistic heritage. The establishment of the State Prize for the Name of Miroslav Skorak will promote widespread popularization of Ukrainian music, draw the attention of society and authors to the works of modern music that form a national cultural environment and present Ukrainian culture in a decent way in the world’s cultural process as an integral part of it. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to adopt as a basis the draft Law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on National Awards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u113	Thank you. I invite you to take the floor as co-rapporteur with the Head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and the construction of Klock Andrija Andriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u114	Good afternoon, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People's Deputies! At its meeting on September 8, 2021, by President Volodymyr of Ukraine, the Green Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on State Prizes for State Prizes in Music Arts, the State Prize for the Name of Miroslav Skork, was considered by the Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development. The National Academy of Arts of Ukraine supports this bill, noting that the creative work of Miroslav Skorik has become a powerful acquisition of Ukrainian culture and has gained wide world recognition. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, generally supporting the bill, points out that the implementation of the proposed novels will have an impact on the spending of the state budget. Following a comprehensive discussion of the bill at the meeting of the Committee, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with paragraph 1 of Part One and Part Two of Article 114 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending Article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes (Registration No. 5767), on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted on the basis and in general with the subsequent commission of the Committee in preparing the corresponding text to be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in conjunction with the Chief Legal Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please support this proposal, it is important, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? It is, isn't it? Is it gone or is it? Yes. They say there is, Taras Ivanovich. Please sign in: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy Kucher Mikoli Ivanovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u116	The word is given to Bilozer Larissa.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u117	Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, Larissa Bilozer, Deputy Group "Trust", Winnitzkin. I remember four years ago when we had Miroslav Skorik in Tulchin at the Operafest Tulchin. This is a great composer, a Ukrainian actor, who was directing us to the Operafest Tulkin at the time, and he wrote the opera, the first opera in the world of "The Rusalchin Easter" by Mikoli Leontovich. So I think it's a very significant event that we're legally accepting the very idea of establishing the State Prize for the Name of Miroslav Skorik, which will promote Ukrainian music art, will help. Because it's also financial support, a financial bonus, not just a reward for our young musicians, which is actually. I think it will encourage them to continue to contribute to the development and promotion of Ukrainian music. So I think his contribution is simply invaluable to Ukrainian art, and his acquisitions are equally invaluable. I'm doing the tune myself, it's just a masterpiece, Scorch. And I think it's a very iconic bill, and I'm sure the Trust Group will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u119	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy, Urban Anatoly Igorovich, the MP's Party for the Future. Anatoly Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u120	Please pass the word to Taras Ivanovich Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u121	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, our parliamentary group "For the Future" certainly supports the draft law. We think that the figure of Miroslav Skorak is an unprecedented figure important to Ukrainian culture. But in this case we're not just talking about the contribution of Miroslav Skorak by his creativity to the development of Ukrainian culture, he's also presenting European culture. And his melody also sounds at the world level, and his contribution to the world heritage is equally tangible. Remember, last year, when he said good - bye to Miroslav Skorak, his melody was heard in this room instead of a minute of silence. That's why I think we should support this country's national music award in the development of Ukraine's music art and the introduction of new practices in the compositional and performing music activities, and condemn it to those people who will be worthy to continue the legacy of the great maestro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u123	Thank you. The word is given to national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u124	Eutushka, Fatherland. Please pass the word to Constantine Bondarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u125	Constantine Bondarev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I address the people of Ukraine, I address all of you. Indeed, we need to observe the leading citizens. And the reward is a very important motive for doing better things around us. "Paternal" will support this. But for the second reading, we will make a very important revision. We'd like there to be such a reward, the reward is "the shame of Ukraine." And we'll also celebrate sometimes Ukrainian citizens, for example, famous railways like Lechchenka. And now there's a new nominee, Kubrakov, who handed it back to the Supervisory Board of Ukrazalznice yesterday. Yesterday there was a meeting of the interim commission of inquiry, which had already begun with a new leadership. Ask yourself: Do you have a reform plan? They said that they had only four months because they were temporarily performing their duties. The railway has been given complete responsibility – zero; the level of corruption reaches the peaks of Everest today. Unfortunately, there is no response from management. And what the new Minister of Cuba is doing, we see that it will not change the situation. That's why we insist on such a mark as "the disgrace of Ukraine." And we're going to hand over Kubrakov and all those who have led the Crucifixion for the past five years. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u127	The word is given by Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyevich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u128	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to point out that our faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" supports this bill to clarify and supplement Ukraine's new state prizes with the new State Prize for the name of Miroslav Skorik. We have noted that the subject of the legislative initiative is the president of Ukraine, Zelensky. And frankly, I'm very surprised. And I'll explain to you why President Greensky is so unacceptable to me and I don't accept him. Because instead of implementing the issue of peace in Ukraine, implementing the Minsk Accords, the Steinmeier formula. We have nothing to do with the President inside the country? We have a conflict in the areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. We don't have freed persons, we have a number of other questions that need immediate solutions. I'm not saying that the question of elections in Donbas, which is going to take place both in uncontrollable areas and in sub-control areas, respectively, in the implementation of the Steinmayer formula, we don't have that. Why does President Zelensky pursue public rewards rather than directly fulfilling his direct responsibilities? I still understand if you were to tell me that the President is not involved in the economy, even though he's sticking his nose in it. He's pushing his nose around. But what I want to say is that as a representative of the President, please tell him that the President of Ukraine must first address the issue of peace in Ukraine -- question number one, which should be settled. Freed persons. There should be laws on the special order of local self - government in certain areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. Election issues also follow Ukrainian laws, in Ukrainian parties, but in uncontrollable territories. This will also move the issue of peace forward, and we need to settle this issue. As he once said, "We didn't start it, but we have to finish it." And I ask that the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u129	Thank you. The word is given to Mikola Knieżicki, "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u130	"European Solidarity" supports this mark of the name of the great maestro. We are pleased that, with the publication "A-BA-BA GA-LA-MA-HA" and Ivan Malkovich, we have joined in contributing to the writing of the latest work of the maestro "Symphony Christmas", the last exits to his remote control in the Upper East, in Lviv, Kiev and the "Symphony Christmas". That's why we're both on the ground and in general. What is more, the position on this prize duplicates the position of assigning the names of the national artists of Soviet Atavim. So let's think about cancelling the Soviets, and setting up premiums like this for prominent cultural actors. Thank you. We vote in favour and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one else wants to speak? She does. Please, Roman Lozinski, Voice, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Roman Lozinski, “Justice. ” First of all, if this was presented and included in the melody of the genius Miroslav Skorik, I think everyone in this room would mention it, because it's an extremely popular, brilliant work. And it is clear that today, when we have 8 years of war in Ukraine, when Russian aggression continues in our country, when there is an information hybrid war in our country, it is still very important for us to speak up and defend the Ukrainian pantheon. The Ukrainian pantheon of heroes, the Ukrainian pantheon of geniuses in the sphere of culture, in the sphere of art, and in other, apparently spheres. But yes, by the way, Mr. Chairman, many factions and groups were speaking, I heard about the Skorkzalznica, about President Zelenski, about Miroslav Skorik, unfortunately, not everyone said. But again and again, I emphasize that it is not only important to remember the culture in this room but also to remember it very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. The committee offered to take the basis and generally with the necessary technical and legal rights. I'll put it in line, first on the basis, and then, if there's no objection, immediately and in general. I think that's the right thing to do. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes (project registration number 5767). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:54:51]] For 305 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I can bet. Okay. I propose to the committee to adopt a draft law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on National Peoples of Ukraine (registration number 5767) as a whole. Please support and vote. [[11:55:26]] For 306 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. The next bill we have is draft law (No. 5867) amending the Ukrainian Act "On State Service" on the organization of the work of the Crimea Platform. But we must now vote on the inclusion of this issue in the agenda, which requires a total of 226 votes. Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[11:56:12]] For 272 Decision taken. Then we should vote ad hoc on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session, and we also need 226 votes. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support and vote. [[11:56:38]] For 287 Decision taken. And one more vote, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner, you need 150 votes to make the decision. Please support and vote. [[11:57:02]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Okay. Then I invite the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Construction of Klocz Andrija Andriyovich and the authors, and from the Committee for 4 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u134	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on State-Organization, Regional Development and Urban Development discussed at its meeting on 14 September a bill amending the National Service Act on Organizational Issues of the Crimea Platform (registration number 5867). Sharing the need to support the Crimea Platform service, which is now a key foreign policy instrument for the consolidation of international efforts aimed at depopulation and the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity. The Committee decided to recommend to the Ukrainian Parliament, in accordance with part one of the first and part two of article 114 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the result of the first reading of the adoption of the bill (registration number 5867) as a basis and as a whole. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill on the basis and, in general, not to waste time discussing it. And we all understand the urgent need for the bill today. Thank you all. And I would like you to support it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues! That's how I understand the need to talk, so please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Urban Anatoly Igorovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u136	Please pass the word to Dmitri Valeriusz Lubinz.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u137	Dmitry Valeriovich Lubinets, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u138	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! This is certainly an important bill, and the MPs will vote for the future. And it urges a colleague in the session room to vote and support the authors of this legislative initiative. The main thing is that the bill proposes to refer to the first level in the scheme of public service salaries of the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The purpose of the bill is to activate and support the Crimea Platform. As the head of the profile group who deals with colleagues in occupied areas, including the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol, we keep in touch with the President's Representation at WRC-Krim with Anton Korinevich, with all the equipment. And we think we need to vote, adopt this law, bring their service support, their social protection to a new level. This will give them additional powers that they deal with every day: people who live in temporarily occupied Crimea, and the preparation of contact papers and international institutions. And in general, I want to thank the President's Representation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, they're doing the most professionally, and personally Anton Korinevich and his entire team for raising the issue of ARK Crimea every day, and they're doing it so that the Russian agenda doesn't make use of it. Because it really feels like Donbas is the question, and the question of Crimea seems to have been solved. Yes, and the President's Representation shows that this is not the case: Crime is, is and will be Ukrainian. And we in the session room, including our vote, should show and support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u139	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rostislav Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u140	Thank you. Please pass the word to Ahtem Chigoza.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u141	Ahtem Chigoz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, surely our faction supports this bill. Everything that has to do with Crimea, with its bribery, with the state in which our citizens are in Crimea, that is, under constant pressure, repression, terror on the part of a criminal, the Russian Federation's terrorist state needs to unite us. Now there are so-called courts, they are every day, there in our territory in Crimea, over our citizens. I think we need, I mean, the authorities, to take special control of the case of Nariman Jelalov and other political prisoners, to organize the cooperation of all lawyers to protect and help families. We have a great example -- in 2018, the so-called business of sailors, when the Russian Federation captured them. And that includes financial commitments. It is essential to coordinate and pressure Russia. And this synergy, which we're talking about a lot, we need to work on this to make this pressure of our partners and our state work faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u143	Thank you. The word is given to Mother Grigori Mikolaiovich, Ukrainian National Deputy, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u144	Please pass the word to Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u145	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u146	Thank you. Your Majesty, my lord, the distinguished national MPs! I'd like you all to listen to me carefully, because if I hadn't seen this bill, I would have believed what our colleagues were saying. Listen to what's going on in the bill. Amendments to the Ukrainian State Service Act will be made. And where are they coming from? In article 51. Article 51 is a scheme of civil servants’ salaries. And that's where the President is, and so on, just an additional representation of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is being submitted. And I'd like to ask my colleagues, "What, we've got nothing left? There are law enforcement agencies, there are other official institutions. We finally have, under our Constitution, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. So what I'm stressing is that those statements that come out of this rostrum and that low-intellectual content that comes out in the form of such bills have nothing to do with the stated purpose. The second is about the Crimea Platform. What you're doing as a great victory is actually a great isolation of Ukraine. Because since the Great Twentieth, I emphasize, no foreign minister has come here except for Turkish. I am not saying that no country leader has come from the Great Twenties. This is called the completely political ignorer of Green and our country because of its position. You look at his foreign political failures where he went: in France, what's the attitude that we agreed on with Germany, in the United States, what are the questions we have in the east. It's completely foreign political isolation. That is why such a poor policy needs to be rectified. But it is necessary to correct, not the same weak laws, but an effective external political change in course, an external economic change in course in order for Ukraine to be respected in the outer arena. Our faction will not support such a low intellectual content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u147	The word is given to the national deputy of Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "Golos". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! I have the honor of being co-author of this law, it's really important. Let me just explain what this law is about. We have the Crimean Platform Office. These are 40 people in the country who work day and night to keep us constantly asking questions about the occupation of Crimea in high order of the day. You've all seen it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm from Donbas alone, don't worry. And that's what they're asking. Follow the news carefully. That's it. And these people are now getting a salary of 5,000 500 dollars. I just got off the phone with Tamil Tasheva, a representative of the Crimean Platform Office, and she asked for the opportunity to give them a normal salary. An army of Russian propagandists is working against them, and an army of Russian lawyers is working against them. All the structures of the country that occupied our Ukrainian Crimea are constantly working against them. That is why this law is solely about giving people who are engaged in the Crimean platform a decent salary. This is done through the President's representation in Crimea, which is normal and is in line with the law. I very much ask you to support this law both on the basis and, if possible, on the whole. We're early in the year. At the beginning of the summer, important bills were supported, initiated by the Voice faction, to abolish the free economic zone of Crimea. We supported the Native Nation Bill, we voted here on August 23rd. Our appeal to the Crimea Platform is another step to ensure that the Crimea issue does not go away in the international arena as well as in other occupied areas. All occupied territories of Ukraine must return. Thank you. And I ask you to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I invite you to John Ivanovich Krulk's word, "The Fatherland." After this, Kachura, Shahov, and then we go to the vote. So I'd like to ask the people's deputies to return to the hall. Please, John Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u150	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Our faction will support this bill. It is essential that the issue of the return of Ukrainian Crimea to Ukraine and, most importantly, the liberation from the occupation of Ukrainian citizens who are there temporarily. This is a matter of extreme national importance. And when we raise the Crimea issue at the highest level -- at Parliament level, at the international level of any of the highest sites -- it burns the most in the Kremlin. There can be no compromise: forget about the Crimea in order to get Donbas back. Ukraine must restore both Donbas and Crimea and restore full territorial integrity. And this bill is an act of solidarity with our colleagues who are in Parliament and are representatives of the Crimean Tatar people. Because each nation can feel free only in an independent Ukraine, including Crimean.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u151	The word is given to the national MP, Kachuri Alexandre, please. After that, Shahov. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u152	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. I think our political faction will be sure to support President Greensky's initiative. Because the Crimean Platform is really an effective mechanism for returning our territories. And these ten people, led by Korinevich, are doing everything they can to bring millions of Ukrainians back to Ukraine. And I'm sure the mistake that our respectable colleagues made in the last few years should be corrected. I will ask for support on the basis of this bill as a whole, because Crimea is Ukraine, because we must do everything we can to be the only one again. And our international partners are very supportive of that. I ask now that every MP show his or her position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u153	Thank you. Yes, the final performance is Chess's Sergey Volodymyrovich, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u154	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". We will certainly support this bill. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention not only to the Crimean platform, but also to Donbas, in which officials are to work in a state of emergency since the 14th year, but unfortunately, the cabinets are empty by 5:00 p.m. And they get a salary, not like the regular governor, but like the head of the military-civil administration, and they get more with the extras -- 200 thousand dollars, most of all. Secondly, I would like to address our colleagues, as Jaroslav Železniak said, because they did free Crimea from the free economic zone. He's dying somewhere. He's supposed to be here somewhere. There's a bill of 2070 that was developed by our colleagues from "Our Land" and put on top. Please either give it to you, vote or today consider the 2070 - Bill on the Free Economic Zone of Donbas. Allow yourself to develop a small, medium and large business. Come on, even if one penny goes into the normal investment in Lugansk and..
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. Please take your seats. I'm voting on the committee's proposal, there on the ground and in general, but we're putting it in order. First, I would like to propose the adoption of the draft Act amending the National Service Act on Organizational Issues of the Crimea Platform (project No. 5867). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:12:13]] For 295 Decision taken. Next, I propose to the committee to adopt, in general, the necessary technical and legal regulations, a draft law amending the Ukrainian State Service Act on organizational issues of the Crimea Platform (registration number 5867). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:12:48]] For 295 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we still have a second reading of one also important bill (registration number 4046). I invite the rapporteur to the rostrum, head of the Committee on Agriculture and Land Policy, Oleg Sergiyovich Tarasov. Please tell me, will someone insist on repairs? Will anyone insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u156	I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u157	Who's it gonna be? Vadim Evgenovich, right? What an amendment, please tell me. We're all going, aren't we? Now I'm looking. 18 Amendment Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u158	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Chairman, thank you. But, look, I have a 2 amendment, it's partially accounted for. I, by the way, thank the committee that they counted most of my licenses, but I wanted all my rights to be taken fully into account. So I have the right to declare all the amendments today so that the bill is comprehensive. So please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u159	2 amendment then. Please, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u160	2 of the amendment, yes. And after every correction, I want to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u161	Please. Give me a time, please. Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u162	I asked for my amendment to be taken fully into account. Correction number.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u163	All right, I get it. I get it, yeah. So amendment number two, it's part of the committee. The author insists on taking full account. So please identify and vote. [[12:14:58]] For 118 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains partially taken into account in the Committee’s drafting. Your next amendment is 18. Vadim Eugeneovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u164	Next is my number six amendment. My colleagues, I would like to say that the bill is fairly balanced today, and it is necessary. First of all, we need to determine what a farmer is and what land he cultivates. That's why we've been clarifying the use issues. So these are all the lands that today: (a) are in constant use, directly in the permanent inheritance that are leased. So it's going to be called a farmer. And in the bill, we give incentives, incentives to those who just start farming in the countryside, that is, newly created farms. In this context, we're also clarifying in the Maintenance Act, we're clarifying these very incentives. I've had enough. I wanted to thank the chairman for making such a comprehensive bill, which should be supported by a constitutional majority. Thank you. And this amendment is to be taken fully into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u165	Thank you, Vadim Eugeneovich. I'm making the author's proposal, amendment number six. It's taken into account by the committee in part. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. Please identify and vote. [[12:16:41]] For-123 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains partially taken into account in the Committee’s drafting. Your next amendment is 14, if I'm not mistaken. Right, Vadim Evgenovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u166	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. The 14th amendment, look here, says what I'm saying is that the Budget Code provides support to farmers. And the committee says it can be useful. Here we understand clearly what can and will be given -- these are different categories. So I wanted farmers, especially those to whom we were going to give incentives under this law, to receive state support, including funds from the Ukrainian Farm Support Fund. This is where I wanted my colleagues to support us. And this is really going to be clear support, not one that can go to the Cabinet of Ministers or any minister. So the request to support this amendment is to "get on with it" and not "may" as the committee defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u167	Thank you. I bet amendment 14. It's taken into account by the committee in part. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. So please identify and vote. [[12:18:18]] For 122 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. Next amendment 18. Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill applies to incentives for family farming. In order to combat the shadow market, the work of the earth or the shadow work of the earth is actually done. Those who have come into this shadow today need to be motivated. We talked about this on many round tables and on many, let's say, strategic visions, how we can get the same person to the family farmers and give them the opportunity to get the status of the manufacturer, give them the opportunity to get government support, cheap loans and so on. In this amendment, I have separately proposed that State support as an incentive not only compensates, as we have in the past called for a decision to compensate the only social contribution to the Pension Fund, but also direct support to the family farms themselves. So this is going to be an incentive for those who are going to move to legal. And become a legal producer. It's going to be one of the incentives of transition i.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u169	Thank you. Amendment 18, by Yvchenko Vadim Evgenovich. She's been rejected by the committee. The author insists on taking her into account. So please identify and vote. [[12:19:59]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Vadim Evgenovich, yours, number 22, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u170	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, you know, so we're not going to make an incentive so we don't have to have a shadow treatment of the land. So we can't get to those who are actually in the dark processing of the land today, so that they can become producers, that they can become family farmers, that they can get all the incentives and preferences that we can offer them with you. If you do not support incentives for family farmers today, please tell the chairman. What, though, is proposed in addition to the taxes that you have introduced per hectare of 5,000 600 for family farmers such as incentives to register directly and become producers? You don't have to tax them, but you have to give them incentives to create rural employment -- that's my opinion. Please tell me yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u171	Amendment No. 22 of the Ivchenka People's Deputy. She's been rejected by the committee. The author suggests that we take it into account, so please identify and vote. [[12:21:36]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 28. It's partially accounted for. Will you insist, Vadim Evgenovich? Please, 28th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u172	Colleagues, here is the 28th amendment, which speaks of the obligation to provide family farms or farms up to 35 years of age, where there is in fact the age of the person who created this farm, direct budget support. These are normal positions that are being maintained around the world today when we support young people who can move from town to village and create jobs. And most of all, when they were young, let's say, at their age, they chose agriculture. So, colleagues, I'd like this to be fully supported, and we clearly understood that the incentives to young farmers who are going to create family farms or farms were and directly were provided from the state budget. We suggested that, but somehow the committee suggested that I be part of it. Requesting full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u173	Thank you. This is about 28 amendments. The committee counted it in part. The author insists on taking this amendment fully into account, so please identify and vote. [[12:23:16]] For 105 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains partially taken into account in the Committee's drafting. Vadim Eugeneovich, and you're still here for a long time because we have seven minutes left? Just so we know whether we're voting today or not. Please, what's your next amendment, will you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u174	38th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u175	38th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u176	Colleagues, I'd like you and I to support this exercise, which speaks of primacy. What is priority? When a government budget is distributed, funds are actually distributed into different programs, and we say that there should be priority. The first priority is when you and I define the program and we repay the only social contribution to family farmers. This is a normal practice for small businesses to develop directly in rural areas. First of all, when you and I say that the cost goes first to support young farmers under the age of 35 who start their business directly in rural areas. I'm in charge. Let us give them the right to receive support first.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u177	Thank you, Vadim Evgenovich. This is the 38th amendment of the national MP Yvchenka. It's part of the committee. After all, the author insists on taking full account. Please identify and vote. [[12:25:11]] For-99 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains in the form of a partial committee. Vadim Evgenovich, can we vote, do you have another amendment? Please, another one, please, which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u178	My colleagues, I have many more rights, but this is the key. And if we support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u179	Number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u180	I'll take the other ones off.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u181	Number, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u182	41st. My colleagues, in fact, I do propose that we support this law, the farmers are waiting for it, the Ministry is waiting for it, because it will be distributed for the next year, directly, budget support. There are nuances about giving priority rights or perhaps giving them away. But it seems to me that if agrarian policy is going to move in the matter of creating and supporting small ones, and medium-sized businesses, I think we're going to have big benefits. After all, Ukraine has its perks. The advantages are our agrarian sector and our black lands. And let's please support this bill even if this amendment is not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u183	Thank you. I'm putting 41 amendments to the People's Deputy Ivchenka. It was counted by the committee, but in part. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. So please identify and vote. [[12:26:56]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. The amendment remains the same as the part taken into account was the committee. Vadim Evgenovich, thank you for your position, for your introduction. We can go to voting for the law as a whole, right? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of farm activities (project registration number 4046). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:27:45]] For 291 Decision taken. Welcome to the adoption of this bill. One second we're still on for three minutes, and then we're moving on, your honors, to the polls. There will be 11 requests to the President of Ukraine. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u184	Dear Ukrainians, "European Solidarity" refers to the State Bureau of Investigation and to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, where we submit allegations of a crime in the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 23, 21. The Constitution of Ukraine very clearly defines the legislative right of the Ukrainian national deputy to legislative initiative. Yesterday, Mr. Zelensky's legislative initiative was implemented, but for the first time in this room, the right of deputies to legislative initiative was violated. First. Now there's going to be a lot of names, and we ask that both the D.B.I. and the D.A. put them down, and they'll be in our statement. First of all, Mr. Zawidnevich, the head of the committee of profile, he blocked essentially the possibility of the people's deputies of Ukraine coming and protecting their amendments, thereby expressing our will to improve the bill, we were not invited to this meeting in time. Then, the chairman of the meeting, Mr. Stefanchuk, who exceeded the service authority, usurped the authority, obstructing the activities of the Ukrainian national deputy along with Mr. Venislavski and also with the government, (which is 250 national deputies from a majority and two oligarchic groups) voted in favour of violating the right of Ukrainian national deputies to legal activity. We appreciate these crimes according to the articles: obstructing the public action, hindering the activities of the Ukrainian national deputy, exceeding official authority, and usurping power. And it is behind these articles that criminal cases are to be broken and all those who conducted this a·neʹa yesterday, and who presided here yesterday, and conducted all of this. You know, our families, "European solidarity," we're all threatened, threatened every day, but we're not afraid. We will certainly defend the right of our constituents to have a vote here. And it's very embarrassing yesterday for one fragment of an opposition faction that didn't even support our demand yesterday, along with part of the Voice and the Fatherland, to remove the person who violates the constitutional right of the people's deputies to defend the rights of our constituents here, and not support the removal from the headship of Mr. Stefanchuk. As for the oligarchic MPs. I am very sorry that the national MPs who were already involved before January 16, 2014, and then, with their hands, feet, hooves, voted in favour of breaking the Rules, repeated it yesterday, giving a vote to the Green Break of the Constitution. For Greens, the usurpation of power will end badly. We can't have Belarus built here in the country. And today, when you stressed the contradictions in these articles, by allowing both the PNZB and the NAZK to announce at the same time who the oligarch is, and trying to get it through your sweaty, non-professional committee, we stopped it. This is to be considered in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u185	In accordance with article 25 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we turn to the declaration of requests. Please, Olena Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u186	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Thus, the honourable colleagues, during the plenary week, received 118 parliamentary inquiries. Of these to the President of Ukraine, 11 parliamentary requests, 3 parliamentary requests to the Supreme Council, 49 to the Cabinet of Ministers, 50 to the heads of other public authorities and local self-government bodies, 50 to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, regardless of their subordination and forms of ownership, 5. So we're going with you to ask the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there is an open roll vote in support of Yuri Boyke's request to the President of Ukraine for immediate action, that. to the President of Ukraine on urgent measures to halt the illegal actions of officials of the State authorities and local self - government that are being carried out in relation to the territories and inhabitants of the Kamyanotok People’s United Territorial Society. Please vote. [[12:32:51]] For 112 The decision is not taken. There is an open-ended roll-call vote supporting the request of a group of national deputies (Klimpush-Cincadze, Frez, Ionova) to the President of Ukraine for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who are at the height of the situation in Afghanistan. Please vote. [[12:33:29]] For-179 Decision taken. It is up to the vote to decide to send a preliminary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:33:54]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is an open-ended roll-call vote supporting the request of a group of national deputies (Climpus-Cincadze, Friz and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the involvement of parliament in the implementation of the Ukrainian Transformation Plan. Please vote. [[12:34:29]] For 133 The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote to support Maxim Berezin's request to the President of Ukraine for the functioning of the strategic state-owned enterprise Ukraine. Please, let's be clear, let's vote. [[12:35:02]] For 285 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:35:27]] For 285 Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Bobrowski, Klimenko, Gritchuk) to the President of Ukraine regarding the granting of the status of the National Museum of Ukraine to the Museum of History of Kiev. Please vote. [[12:35:59]] For 283 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:36:22]] For 284 Decision taken. Supports Alexia Kovalova’s request to the President of Ukraine for the improper conduct of pretrial investigations in criminal proceedings against officials of the Bechter United District Society for the local budget while repairing the roof of the music school in the village of Bechteri and the heating system of the Bechter and Alexievsky Institutes of complete general secondary education. These are your questions, I'll just read them. Please vote. [[12:37:12]] For 158. Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:37:38]] For-183 The decision is not taken. It's about an open-ended vote in support of Geo Leros' request to the President of Ukraine for concern at the American Academy of Film for the award of the Oscar Award to Volodymyr Zelenski for a better scenario and special effects in the film "The Attempts That Didn't Happen to See Everyone." Please vote. [[12:38:15]] For-35 The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by Geo Leros's request to the President of Ukraine for personal control of Vladimir Zelensky's submission to NAZC of a report on substantial property changes due to the cost of 2,000,300 custom-made materials in cable channels and the media, from September 13 to 20, 20, 2021, for the purpose of discrediting the Ukrainian national deputy Geo Leros. Please vote. [[12:39:05]] For-30 The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by a request from a group of national deputies (Kwalchuk, Aliksiyczuk, and others). Only 5 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the assignment of the title Hero of Ukraine to the chief physician of the Community non-commercial enterprise "Central City Hospital" of the city council of Kucheruk Eugenia Filimonovich. Please vote. [[12:39:48]] For 270. Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:40:11]] For-286 Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Kingdom, Solod, and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine reiterating the rights of citizens in the area of social protection. Please vote. [[12:40:47]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. There is an open-ended vote in support of the request by Rostislav Tistik to the President of Ukraine for the inclusion of a project for the construction of a highly specialized multi-profile hospital in the KNP area of the Lviv Hospital of Emergency Medical Care in the Grand Building program. Please vote. [[12:41:27]] For 279 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. [[12:41:51]] For 287 Decision taken. These are all requests to the President, Your Honor. We still have to read out requests to other authorities. So it's the questions of the national MPs. Sergia Soboljeva to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for an unsatisfactory assessment of the Ukrainian Pension Fund’s response to a parliamentary request for action to enforce the court’s decision and the renewal of the rights of a citizen, Kozenko J.K. Sergei Nagorniak to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the possible illegal impact on procurement carried out by the Ukrzaliznica Association and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Jurya Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the urgent measures taken to halt the illegal actions of officials of the State authorities and local self-government in relation to the territories and inhabitants of the Kamyanotok People's United Territorial Society. Boris Prijdjka to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the payment of medical personnel involved in medical examinations of candidates for military service to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the use of effective measures to protect the rights of workers and to organize the proper business activity of the state enterprise. Alexander Tkachenka to the Attorney General’s Office on the use of effective measures to properly investigate criminal conduct. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the need for a comprehensive review of Sergey Yashin's appeal to ensure that he realizes his constitutional right to housing. People’s Deputies ( Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Office of the Attorney General regarding the use of effective measures to restore land to municipal property. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Kyiv City Public Administration on the use of effective measures for the proper provision of housing and utility services. Groups of National Deputies (Slavicki, Tkachenka, Shinkarenka) to the Kyiv City Public Administration, the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection on improper housing and utility services. Irina Borzowa to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, for the renovation and restoration of the cultural heritage of the National Museum of Plants of Pyrogov. Dmitry Kisilevski to the Attorney General's Office, National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, State Bureau of Investigation for the conduct of a review of the activities of officials of the Dnipropetrov District Attorney's Office. Irina Herashchenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General, for the conduct of an objective, comprehensive, prompt, and impartial investigation into the death of Andrija Lesaov in Cherkasa on September 5, 2021. Irina Herashchenko to the Head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency on the results of the National Agency's analysis of anti-corruption reports by the National People's Party on property, income, expenditure and financial liabilities for the third and fourth quarters of 20th quarters in part of the organization's expenditure and the so-called national survey that took place during the local elections in Ukraine on 25 October 2020. Irina Heraszczenko to the Chief of Office of the President of Ukraine for a copy of the Ukrainian Transformation Plan. Irina Heratchenko and Maria Ionov to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for providing information on the state of execution of the 21st year's defence order. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Rudik, and others) A total of 5 deputies) headed by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Strategic Industry of Ukraine, on the provision of official information on the status of implementation of the State Defence Order for the 21st year, as well as the use of urgent measures to pay off the debt due to military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Alexia Ustenko to the temporary duty of Head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography and cadastre to verify the decisions of the General Administration of the Dergeokadastr in the Kyiv Region and the General Administration of the Dergeokadastr in the Chernigiv region concerning the granting of a permit for the development of a project to the land structure regarding the removal of land for the conversion of the citizen of the Savechenko Hope. Rostislava Pavlenko and Maria Ionova to the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, regarding the provision of official information regarding the author of the American Journalist Investigation of the CNN, Matthew Chance, on the operation of detention of members of the VAC "Vagner". Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Uzhgorodské měsznogo, head of the Zacarpathian district administration on general cost and sources of funding for the construction of the flagstone in Uzhgrad on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's independence. Irina Konstankevic to the executive responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the restoration of the diesel-powered Covel-Sarne Covel. Valeria Kolucha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion of the repair of the road to the general use of the national value of R-04 Kyiv-Fastov-Bila Church-Tarras - Zvenigradka in the 2022 program of President Vladimir Zelenski of Ukraine. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, Head of the Lvivgaz Association of Shareholders on the unscrupulous actions of the GM operator in the Lviv region of Lvivgaz. Michael Bondar, acting as head of the Ukrainian Railway Association's Government, in violation of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a state language, the leaders of the Kiev-Livov train and their contempt for the participants in the ATO. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney-General on the use of measures to ensure the proper representation of the interests of the State before the court in case No. 280/906/21, which is being examined by the Third Court of Appeal on appeal by the District Attorney's Office. Oksana Savechuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the approval of the order for the calculation of the share of excise tax from the manufactured and imported fuel to the general fund of the corresponding local self-government budgets in the second half of 2021. Sergey Ljowczyn to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfying pace of economic growth. Paul Halimon to the executive officer of the Specialized Anti - Corruption Prosecutor’s Office, Director of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, on the use of measures related to the illegal acquisition of property of a state enterprise. Alexia Ustenka to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Utilities for the violation of the rights of Galina Solomko, a member of the Harkovgaz Shareholder Society, which has resulted in an irregular sum of more than 16,000 dollars in natural gas. Victor Myalik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the financing of construction and the operation of the general secondary education facility of the village of Balakhovich of the Vara district of Ravenna. Julius Yatzik is responsible for the responsibility of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation to provide the documents and information necessary to carry out the parliamentary duties. Olga Vasilevsky-Smagluk to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine, the National Atomic Energy Company Energoate to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Management of Decommissioned Nuclear Fuel in the Location, Design and Construction of Centrally Spent Nuclear Fuel Reactors of Domestic Nuclear Power Plants. Groups of National Deputies (Vasilev-Smagluk, Kinsburg and others, only 33 deputies) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the non-compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Management of Decommissioned Nuclear Fuels on the Location, Design and Construction of Centrally Spent Nuclear Fuel Reactors of Domestic Nuclear Power Plants. Jury Zdebski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the provision of information on the automated system of operational (combat) administration. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the right to free nutrition of children in educational institutions, payment of financial compensation to children affected by the Chernobyl disaster. July Yatzik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to Appendix 4 of Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 681 of 23 June 2021 and the possibility of automatic replacement of qualified certificates of architects and designer engineers. Mr. Lubinz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing further increases in municipal tariffs. Dmitry Lubinz to the minister of environmental protection and natural resources of Ukraine for the exclusion of the Azov area from the Azov region of the Azov region, located in the Nikolai region of the Donetsk region, from the Investment Atlas of drug use. Maxima Berezin to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the operation of the strategic state-owned enterprise Ukraine. Alexander Kunickýk to the director of the State Bureau of Investigation’s duties as to the need for a proper response to restrictions on citizens’ right to receive administrative services within the public authority. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of free nutrition to Ukrainian education institutions at the expense of government and local budgets. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to raise the wages of employees of boarding and senior citizens and disabled persons. Alexander Kachura to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the possibility of carrying out state budgeted expenditure for the maintenance of education and health facilities in the Suma region. Michael Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the readiness of Ukraine's medical facilities for the next wave of disease on acute respiratory disease SOVID-19. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the debt of payment to medical personnel in the city of Slovenia’s Donetsk Region. Anatolia Kostucha to the head of the Zacarpathian District Council, head of the Zacarpathian District Administration for the District Program against TB for 2017-2021. Anatolya Kostuha to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine on the coal accumulation situation. Groups of the People’s Deputies (Melnika, Kasaiah, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Attorney General, the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Head of State Inspectorate for Architecture and Urban Development of Ukraine, acting as Head of the National Tax Service of Ukraine, the Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Head of the Specialised Environmental Prosecutor's Office, temporarily acting as Head of the National Labour Service of Ukraine, the Head of the State District Public Administration, on the implementation of effective measures for the illegal construction of the coastal zone of Primorsk Zaporez. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the registration of the residence of citizens. Taras Batenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the veterinary clinic of the Lviv National University of Veterinary Medicine and the biotechnology of the name S.Z. Glick's. Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, for the transparency and proper work of the State Architecture Inspectorate and the construction of Ukraine in the area of construction. Anastasia Lashenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to make changes to housing subsidies due to the rise in housing and utility tariffs. Anastasia Lashenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to establish an economically sound and socially equitable fixed price of natural gas for budgetary institutions and organizations. Igor Goose to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to anticipate funds in the State Budget in 2022 for the construction of mine No. 10 "Novolinska". Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of National Security and Defence of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive solution to the problem of strengthening the West Bug river banks on the border with the Republic of Poland in order to avoid further loss of Ukrainian border areas. Igor Goose to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the need to address the problem of correct measurement of gas counters and tariff problems and the use of gas for the population, in the context of the activities of the Volingaz Association (TOV Volingaz Zbut). Igor Guza to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for an immediate review of the draft legislation relating to the increase in the proportion of VAT in the budgets of the communities to 63 per cent. Alexander Lukasheva to the director of the State Enterprise Hall of Official Delegations for information on the activities of the State Enterprise Hall of Official Delegations from 2015 to 2021. Natalia Pippa to the director of the Lviv district council of the Lviv geriatric boarding house, the Lviv city head to secure the boundaries of the Lviv district hall of the Lviv district council of the Lviv geriatric boarding house. Groups of people’s deputies (Kwalchuka, Getmanceva, and others) A total of 24 deputies) to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the increase in expenditures from the State budget of Ukraine for 2022 for the State Customs Service of Ukraine. Romana Lozinski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing the duration of the exam to the level of national language. Marina Bardinau to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inventory of the health facilities of the Ukrzalznica Stock Exchange. Yulia Ovovnikova to the Attorney General, temporarily acting as Head of the State Agency for the Management of the Aliens Zone, Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine for the violation of environmental legislation by the state-specialized North Desert enterprise. Yulia Ovovnikova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the mandate of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine. July Ovočinkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of Ukrainian Law No. 1684-IX of July 15, 2021. Julius Ovchinnikov to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General for the mass destruction of birds, including those in the Red Book of Ukraine, in the territory of the Biosphere Reserve of Ascania-Nova and surrounding areas in the Herson region. Igora Krivosheyev to the head of the Hungarian Village Council of the County of Zacarpathia for the observance of the principles of publicity and legality in the work of the Mizgir Village Council. The Gennady of Watzak to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Wynnick district government administration for the inclusion of the municipal non-commercial enterprise "Cryzopol district hospital of intensive treatment" in the list of health support institutions and the provision of appropriate funding. Anatolya Kostucha to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the centre of hearing and speech problems "SAWAG". And the last MP's request is for Andrija Sharaskin to head of the Accounting Chamber to conduct an audit of the efficiency of using the local budget by the Hostomel Village Council. That's all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-24-m0.u187	Thank you, Helen Constantine. We've got a few more minutes. Thank you, Oleni Constantineni. So I'm going to read some more announcements. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part two of article 55 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, declare the need to correct the amendments made in the transcript of the seventh plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the section of the bill under registration number 5599. So yesterday, during the review of the draft law for registration number 5599, the words "tier" were omitted when rereaded after the report from the committee of amendment numbers that were proposed for rejection, given the situation in the hall. The amendments are 39-42, 162-166 and 168-213, 218-221, 223-235, 237-263, 264-270, 272-299, 301-303, 305-328, 329-343, 345-356, 358-364, 366-372, 374-390, 391-394. [[Unheard]] -597 and 601-615. Also wrongly marked were the number of rights that were proposed for deviation. Instead of the number 14 wrongly marked 4 and instead of the number 825 wrongly marked 725. At the same time, I stress that in all cases the committee’s proposals were put to the vote. In this regard, I ask the committee to take the above into account in the form. the text of the law adopted by Parliament and its preparation for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would also like to inform you that at the September 22nd plenary meeting, during the consideration of draft decrees on the appointment of out-of-court local elections, namely, when voting on the draft Decision on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Dobropelian City Head of the Donetsk Region, I have discussed and called this ruling with another issue. Her registration number 5806. Please take this information to heart, as well as the fact that in all the decisions on the appointment of the out-of-order local elections that we voted on, the date of the date of the election proposed by the committee is Sunday, March 27, 2022. There were also reports of button failure. It's to count the pro vote on Law 4046 in the second reading and in general, from the Zavetnavich. From Lichman, the information is that when voting for amendments to the State Service Act (5867), the pros button did not work. And to count the "yes" vote in favour of Bill 2038 – by the national deputy of Bakunz Pavel Andryovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that next week the national MPs are working with the electorate. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, October 5, at 10 a.m. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
