ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for registration. The registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left, and using the sensor button. Are you ready to register? Ready? Please register. [[10:02:47]] There are 172 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, we have two colleagues' birthdays today. This is Elizabeth Petrovna Bogicka and Zujev Maksim Sergiyovich. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Hello! I want both from myself and from my colleagues of success and health. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by the Ukrainian national deputies with announcements, proposals and messages. Please sign up for the presentations by the Ukrainian national deputies. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens! Regrettably, yesterday’s plenary day of the Supreme Council can be a liability: the empty agenda of both the ordinary session and the successive sessions, the bills that were considered, is far from the real needs of people, their demands. And failure by the Supreme Council of decrees, which regulate nothing, but at least determine the political position of the Supreme Council on tariff policy, has, unfortunately, demonstrated the insincerity of power in relation to people in terms of reducing the tariff burden on each family. At the same time, there were two events yesterday that I would like to stop in my speech. First. This is the information delivered by the Temporary Investigation Commission on the protection of children's rights in conditions of decentralization and problems related to the deinstitutionalization of institutions in which children are raised, and the law, which was approved in the second non-recurrent session on the correction of gross error during the adoption of the Education Act in part of the liquidation of sanatoriums and special schools this year. I have to say that only two months of the work of the interim commission of inquiry, which has just begun to examine the work and the ministries, and the situation in each region in terms of what happens when they close, the institutions for children are being eliminated, we have already discovered many violations of the rights of the child in the process of deinstitutionalization, when the closure of the internal institutions takes place without a detailed assessment of the needs of each child, without studying and deciding on each child where it is going, without a detailed understanding of what will continue with this institution from the point of view of its further service in the interests of the children. Unfortunately, we've seen that the Ministry of Social Policy, the President-in-Office of Children's Rights, has actually withdrawn from monitoring compliance with the so-called national deinstitutionalization strategy. And in fact, those who were to become the main advocates of children’s interests under conditions of decentralization and deinstitutionalization have become the main violators when, unfortunately, reports are often cited as successes. That is why I refer to the district councillors from this rostrum: do not rush into carrying out non-professional liquidation orders, analyze the fate of each child first, and only.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u3	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Bilozoz Larissa Mikolayovni, the MP's "Trust". Larissa Santa Claus is in the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u4	Please give the word to Vadim Ivchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u5	Vadim Ivchenko, please, Fatherland. Vadim Eugeneovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u6	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, please tell the Supreme Council, they are still representatives of the Ukrainian people and Ukrainians. What could be the representatives of the Ukrainian people if they failed tariff regulations yesterday, failed tariffs? Is it possible for Ukrainians today to pay such colossal fees for tariffs? We failed today to allow the Ukrainian to reduce the cost of our tariffs. Colleagues, as representatives of the Ukrainian people, we should think about what there are people, millions of people today who are actually receiving State aid in the form of subsidies, and the government is depriving them of the benefits of electricity. Why did we fail the decision to return the household tax? Is that what the Ukrainians do? Is that what the representatives of the Ukrainian people do? Colleagues, why can't we put in a bill of the Fatherland that the gas of our own production should go directly to Ukrainian citizens for a year? We have to change the formula, we have to not count the Ukrainians by the habama, but we have to do that so that the gas of our own production, which is much cheaper, is going to go to the Ukrainian citizens, to the individuals, and this is going to reduce the cost of these payments to the Ukrainians today. What do we do with the earth, fellow workers? To date, Zelensky’s program also tells us that you should apply or initiate an appeal, a survey with Ukrainian citizens, or they agree to sell Ukrainian land. This law, which is being considered today by the Supreme Council, a colleague, does not give or give the right to survive to a farmer, a family farmer. This law will not allow those who today have an organic business to survive, to those economies that have invested millions directly in their organic production, without the cost of ten thousand dollars to buy what they have created. And now there are people who are offering tens of thousands of dollars per hectare in those farms. Let's think about national interest. Let us consider a Ukrainian who today wants to live a decent life first of all, receiving his wages. These are the reduced tariffs that you have failed and the Law on the Market of the Earth, which is to suit national interests. And the buyers are supposed to be farmers, farmers, farmers, especially colleagues, Ukrainians, and people who are going to do the right thing in agriculture, not speculatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u7	Thank you. It's written down by Bakumov, but it gives the word to a colleague. Please, Andrew Viktorovich Zupánin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u8	Good morning, dear fellows! We have a new day and new energy problems in Ukraine. Today we will talk to you about the abuse of power in Ukraine's energy markets by energy monopolies in Ukraine. Still fresh in the memory of February of this year, when a large energy - generated company launched ten - cloud repairs into so - called emergency repairs, only miraculously managed to save the energy system from the collapse and from the multibillion - dollar debt. In fact, by analyzing the company’s actions, the regulator, i.e. the NCREKP, found it guilty of an offence and imposed the maximum possible fine under Ukraine’s legislation of 1.7 million dollars. However, in commenting on this decision, the head of the regulator noted that the risks that this company has exposed to the Ukrainian energy system are clearly disproportionate to this punishment. What would have happened if such actions had taken place in the markets of the European Union? First of all, that would give the company a fine, maybe a thousand times more than the fine she got in Ukraine. The point is that since 2011, the European Union has been implementing the Regulation on Transparency in Optical Energy Markets and Prevention of Abuse, called REMIT. Ukraine has an obligation to implement the requirements of this Regulation in national legislation, and this deadline expired in 2019, today March 2021, these changes have not been introduced into Ukraine's legislation. In fact, the energy monopolies are the apriors against such changes and have even taken such a step. Instead of actively resisting, they decided to lead the process, draft a bill, and even register it in the walls of the Supreme Council. What's interesting is that even this bill has been manipulated, because from 55 pages of this bill, 50 are dedicated to changing it to profile energy laws. Sadly, however, it was not known to the Energy Committee. However, we did not sit around for two and a half months with our colleagues and worked out a comprehensive bill that best reflects the requirements of the REMIT Regulation of the European Union and has already received positive conclusions from the USAID Energy Security Project. And in his conclusion, the Energy Community Secretariat generally noted that of all the bills that have been registered, it is the only bill that maximizes the adaptation of REMIT requirements to national legislation rather than mimics, underlining the word, simulates how this is done in a competing bill. I hope that in the near future we will present our bill 5322 in the hall before the first reading. And I hope, along with my colleagues, for your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u9	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zarski Maksim Valentinovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Dirdin Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u11	Maxim Dirdin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u12	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Yesterday, the Supreme Council failed the draft Decree 4587 on the question of a 30km zone to Kabmin. The author is Julia Yatzik. So again from this rostrum, I'm raising the question of the recovery of the electricity consumption premium for the population that lives in the 30-mile zone of the AES. In Ukraine, four nuclear power stations are currently operating: Zaporizka, Ravenska, Hmelnicka and South-Ukraine. There are hundreds of thousands of people living in and around 30 kilometers of AES. By the end of the 20th year, Kabmin had approved fixed electricity prices for domestic consumers, not taking into account the right of the population living in a 30-mile zone of nuclear power plants for the benefits they had all the time since nuclear stations were operating. Even in the most difficult times for Ukraine, the benefits were not taken from the people. This increase in tariffs has had a significant impact on population capacity, especially on socially vulnerable levels. And it's not surprising that this has led to protests, rallies and roadblocks on the part of citizens, including in my district, particularly the Migiyov OTG of the Mikolai district. In order to restore people's rights, I joined my colleagues in registering Decree 5320 on the application of the Supreme Council to the Kabmin, requiring the establishment of a population within a 30-kilometre zone of nuclear power stations of 30 per cent of the operating tariff per month. This proposal was made by the Ministry of Energy of Ukraine at the beginning of March of this year. Unfortunately, we did not receive a feedback. From this rostrum, I appeal to the Supreme Council’s profile committee to consider this decision on my committee as soon as possible. I speak to Kabmin separately. I'm not waiting for the decision of the Supreme Council on this issue to take steps to restore electricity to the population that lives in the 30-mile zone of the AES. I think that this draft decree is a compromise decision between the government and the Supreme Council and the population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u13	Thank you. He's supposed to be Kasai. He's giving the word to Kisilev. Please, Dmitri Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u14	Dmitry Kisilevski, Dnipro. April 12 was 60 years old from the first man’s flight into space. And we're proud that in the origins of the cosmic age of mankind was Ukrainian engineer Sergey Kraljev. And for Dniper, Kharkiv, Kiev and other cities, it's a celebration of tens of thousands of families of space-based workers. I'm glad that these days we've talked about the Ukrainian satellite January-2-30, the remote sensing apparatus of the Earth, the development of the South Side. Once launched, Ukraine will return to orbit with its own spacecraft for the first time in 10 years. Since the beginning of the cadence, we've passed several laws concerning the space sector: the private space that was allowed to operate by private companies, and the repayment of the debt on the salary of the Southern, which allowed people to get paid in 10 months. But we have the most important decision on space ahead. The first is the space program. Ukraine has been living for 5 years without a document that sets the priorities of the state in the space sphere, lists projects, funding and tasks for scientists. The space sphere cannot be managed by sudden decisions, for the development of these technologies is planned for 15-20 years in advance. The task of the government and the space agency is to prepare a document. And our job is to adopt it by law. The second is the transformation of space enterprises. Today's financial situation, the corporate legal model and the governance model of state space enterprises are unsatisfactory, and we need to create legislative grounds for change. And the third is budget funding. Colleagues, in all the world, space is being developed mainly for the money of governments. We're all discussing Space X Ilon Mask. Yeah, it's a private company, but it's doing NASA's bidding on state-owned American money. And Ukraine's South has 90 percent export share and South East 75 percent export share. So they actually exist at the expense of other governments. And the Ukrainian state doesn't order almost anything from them. So if we're going to work on the budget, we have to be consistent and predict the costs that we're going to set for ourselves in the space program. For a professional holiday, the best gift for workers in the industry should be to bring the state's attention to the developers of rocket and space technology, to provide businesses with purchases, and to pay regular wages. For many of them, it is, unfortunately, rare. We have to admit it, and we have to fix it. I believe that space exploration, the launch of Ukrainian missiles and satellites should become part of our Ukrainian national idea, and the adoption of relevant laws will allow the political forces of our Parliament to unite around this Ukrainian interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u15	Thank you. Next, please, instead of Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich – Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u16	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I was really impressed yesterday. I didn't think that we would vote in favour of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the return of benefits to our citizens on the tax terms of payment to those users who use up to 100 kilowatt-hours of electricity, as it was, by the way, last year, and also that there will be a one-year moratorium on further raising the value of utilities. By the way, it's already done by Romania, it's done by Hungary, everyone's taking these steps, protecting their citizens, not Ukraine. The result is 81 billion debt. Ukrainian gas, which actually costs about a thousand dollars, is now sold to Ukrainians for 7, 8, 9, 10 thousand dollars. Well, where's your conscience? The Constitution clearly states that Nadra belongs to the people of Ukraine. Thus, the Ukrainian people buy their own nadar ten times the cost of their production. Of course, on this background, we cannot overlook nearly 500 people who have died each day. Today, 467 people are also killed by COVID, and that's yesterday's data. How can it be that in Ukraine, which has passed one quarter of the budget, the minister of health is already yelling that he lacks enough money to buy a vaccine? Did we already buy 30 million and have to buy the next 10 million? We barely have 1 million, and we don't know what's going to happen next. We are totally not ready for the vaccination process, although the opposition in October required a plan of vaccination. What are they voting for in extracurricular sessions? I'm telling you, we won't compromise our principles, but we're ready to work at least until night. Only when we vote for things are people needed to help them, not to improve the ritual of burying our military personnel. They have to live, and we have to do everything we can to make them live, not to improve their burial ritual. Why are we ignoring today the 11 clusters proposed by France and Germany to implement the set of measures to resolve and implement the Minsk Treaties signed in September 2014? That is why we today demand responsibility in five ways: peace, the fight against COVID, utilities, pensions, and the income of our citizens, and, of course, the fight against corruption. But I realize that it is very difficult to deal with myself. And the last. What you're doing to the press isn't going to do Ukraine any good. You have to hear people, you have to hear journalists, that's the principle of democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u17	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Ion's Maria Mikolayovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Pottery Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u19	Honcharenko Alexiyyovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u20	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, on Friday the president of Ukraine, Zelensky, flies to Paris to meet with President Macron of France. I would like to remind Mr. Zelenski and to us all the words of Napoleon Bonaparte: "La vraie sagesse de la nation l'experience". Just seven years ago, on April 14, 2014, I personally saw Bezler take Gorlovka along with a crowd, along with Russian agents. My friend and I made a video that became the first evidence of how Russian military and Bezler was the Lieutenant Colonel of the Russian GRU Special Forces, taking part in events in Ukraine. And how they encouraged people, how they led the attack on Ukraine, and how all of this had been prepared for many years. Like Bezler, who moved to Gorlovka years earlier, who, by the way, never lived there, formed organizations of corporal soldiers, and then attacked Ukraine with these organizations, and then killed Ukrainians with weapons. Then the regular armies of Russia reached them, and war has been raging ever since. I want you all to remember this and not miss the 14th year lesson. These lessons are actually very simple, and here you can think of another term for Napoleon: one who doesn't want to feed his own army will feed another's. Look at what's happening: 2020, the U.S. state defense order is broken down, it's gone. 2021, April of the month -- we still haven't approved a state defense order. The purchase of fuel for our military has not taken place. That's amazing. We're talking to the whole world, we're saying that the echelons of Russian troops, the technology is going to our borders. How did you prepare your own army? For two years the salaries of our military personnel have not increased. There are hundreds of thousands of members of the Supervisory Boards to all the friends and pennies that are being used by the state, the money is not on their own military money. And this is a catastrophe, and this is the way to defeat. I'd like to remind you that last night was the call of Byden Putin. The whole world understands that the situation is very disturbing, and the whole world is trying to stop Russian aggression. I want to say to Zelenski: stop shooting Putin with your eyes and seek peace in his eyes! We need to keep the powder dry, prepare, and be ready to give it back. Major Non-NATO Status Ally of United States of America – a NATO-led ally of the United States of America. This can be required today. Let's not waste any minutes, because the threat is actually very serious. Let's do it, not talk!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u21	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kabachenko Volodymyr Viktorovich. Ivanovich Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u22	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, especially, dear Ukrainians, I wanted to begin today's speech with a situation that we have with the national stockholder NAK Naftogaz. In this, last year, this company has declared damages of 36.9 billion dollars, a group of Naftogaz, 36.9 billion dollars. Please tell me, at these dragon tariffs, when people last pay for residential services, at NAC Naftogazi there could be a 36 billion-dollar loss hole. And it's very simple. The situation is that there are two elements. The first ingredient is because of the thoughtless tariffs that failed to be reduced and reviewed at yesterday's meeting, there are no laws of the Fatherland faction that predict that tariffs can actually be reduced. We've had a catastrophic situation where 81 billion dollars is a residential debt, and these debts are only going to go up because people have nothing to pay for. The second ingredient is that no government can verify the activities of NAC Naftogazu. The State Audit Service carried out an audit. What's the reaction? No reaction. Where are criminal cases? No criminal case. The interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council, which was created almost a year ago in this Parliament, has been working for a year to allow the "ministers of the people" to verify the Naftogaz NAC. And we have something to say here to document the thefts that are taking place in this company. There's no way to check. What's more, I want to tell you as the head of the TSC, that the situation today with the state budget is not optimistic. Why? Because the VAT crisis continues, the smuggling situation continues, despite no sanctions. They're just redistributing directions, they're just redistributing flows, and now they're going to be "breaking" corruption on customs. The same is true in the tax system. And I think that as long as the law enforcement authorities don't do their job, no sanctions will help. There are 11 criminal acts that have been violated since the TSC investigation, and there is no criminal case in any of the courts. No tax collector is removed from office, no tax collector is held liable. If we go solely with sanctions, it's populism. The law enforcement system needs to work so that all those law enforcement agencies and courts can perform their functions and bring those responsible to justice. Then perhaps the state budget will be filled and we will not be in a situation where the budget gap this year is 300 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u23	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedina Sofia Romanovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u24	Please give the word to your colleague Volodymyr Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u25	Arjev Vladimir, please, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u26	Last night, there was almost a great tragedy in the Hmielnicki. The district infection hospital ran out of oxygen, it just wasn't taken away in time, and there were no reserves. I don't know how they got out of this situation, it's a miracle that almost 200 patients who were lying in this hospital in need of oxygen therapy almost choked. The same situation with oxygen in Theophilus, Shepeter, throughout the hops. On March 31st, I wrote to Prime Minister Schmigal an urgent appeal to immediately secure the hop area with oxygen, and he referred it to Stepanova. Stepanov sent me this answer. It turns out that in the Hmelnic region, on April 5, there are 2 million liters of oxygen, half a thousand oxygen balloons. It's all good. It's all good. It's all good. It's only in the Hubblehouse that people, when they call me tens a day, say they're suffocating. And they can't breathe numbers from the Ministry of Health. They need oxygen that the state didn't provide. Do you think there's a better situation in other areas? No, it's not. Plus negative is the same thing. Because a year ago, we had to think about what was going on in Italy and realize that we needed to buy new powers to ensure that Ukraine produced medical oxygen. But nothing was done. Nothing was done in the fall. And now, I'm sorry, they're sitting in the government "on the ass straight" and they're not doing anything by looking at what people are suffocating. Instead, what is going on? Flagstocks will measure the heads of the district governments in front of Greensky's Office, because by Independence Day, Ukraine was told to put in each area the highest and best flag for the state flag. It's very good for the state flag to make a good flag. But you can do that at the expense of the mecenati. And at the expense of the state, you don't have to measure with flags, you have to save people. Because, as the head of Gamaliya's Hmmelnite household said, we need to see the hop flag from Moscow. So perhaps it would be better to see the adequacy of power from Ukraine? Because there's no oxygen. As my colleague Honcharenko said, state defense orders cannot be accepted for the second year in a row. They see it in Moscow. And that's why we need to protect the country now, both from COVID and from external aggression. But what is happening is about blindness, indifference, and deafness of power. And we have to finally do something about it. Because this poses a threat to the lives and health of Ukrainians today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u27	The word is given to the national deputy Drabovsky Anatoly Grigorovich instead of Gritchcock Roman. Please, Anatoly Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, these April days of Ukraine, Ukraine, the whole world mentions the Chernobyl tragedy. The Chernobyl AES accident is the biggest disaster in its history of nuclear energy. The lives and health of millions of people have been threatened. The magnitude of the disaster could be much greater than the courage of the participants to eliminate the consequences of the accident. By risking their lives, they have protected people from harmful influences and further radiation distribution. How the State cares for the health, social protection, and pension of its heroes and victims as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. There was a very good law on the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. But at the time of his existence, this law marked 57 significant changes and additions exclusively to the worst. No other law in Ukraine has experienced anything like this. A climax to the abuse of the Chernobylites was the shameful Law passed by Supreme Council No. 76 of the Eighth Council, which almost definitively destroyed all social guarantees for the Chernobylites. This year it is 10 years old from the 23rd Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. 11.11, in which the modernisation of the salary for the payment of pensions to black people was paid in Ukraine in 2006, amounting to 928 dollars. All other Ukrainian pensioners have been paid 14, 15, 16 years, four times higher. What's with the respect? I want to draw your attention to the problem of evac from the epicenter of the disaster. They're completely deprived of any benefits. Think of the state’s spending as much as 75 dollars a year on a single person to be healed by the evacuees. Allowing their children to pay for their meals in their children’s institutions. The problem of the Chernobyls is the same as for Winniek, which is for Dniper, which is for Kiev. I'll give you an example of these problems, especially medical care. It is important to avoid the closure of health facilities that serve the Chernobyl family and to leave medical care free. Treatment term. For the time being, 5 days, recommended 12. Sanitary smoking should be available with the right to choose where to go, and not once every two years, but every year. Pension insurance, social security -- this list can be continued. And finally. On April 7, 2021, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine ruled on the protection of the Chernobylites from the saviour of officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u29	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've completed the plum part of our plenary meeting and we're moving on to a fascinating part of our work of law. I'll remind you, last time we ended up at Amendment 1518, so let's move on. Amendment 1519, national deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. You will? Nestor Ivanovich, are you planning, insisting or not? I don't see Nestor Ivanovich. All right, I see. Nestor Ivanovich. Perhaps I could see Nestor Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies. Nestor Ivanovich, 1519 your amendment. We're interested in your point of view and your rationale for this fundamental amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u30	Thank you. You know, I had a very fruitful discussion with Milonov yesterday about the land market. Indeed, it is one of the generators of the idea of speeding up the earth’s market in Ukraine. And he was a little surprised to learn that I was one of those people who, in fact, won our citizens the right to sell the land on October 25, 2001. But then at the same time, you imposed a moratorium on the very possibility of selling land, and I explained why. We compared the value of the land to Hungary, to Romania, to Poland, where it is! 6-12 times higher than in Ukraine. But so it happened that income, all social standards, per capita GDP is also 4-7 times higher than in Ukraine. So first let's create a stable Ukraine with the value of land and then sell it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u31	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. You insist on making this amendment. I am making an amendment to 1519, where national deputies Shufrich and Kiwa propose to exclude 45 points. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:38:20]] For-52 The decision is not taken, Nestor Ivanovich. Next amendment. Next amendment 1520, National Deputy Volosyn, please. It doesn't, does it? None. I'm sorry. Next 1523, Volosyn. None. 1529, Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. How has the article of the Codex earth been previously drafted? It was worded as follows: "Landowners and land users have no right to remove and transfer land without the special permission of the central executive authority." As we are now encouraged to write, "Landowners and land users have the right to remove and transfer land on the basis of a project land structure.".. That is to say, it is completely permissible to remove the top fertile layer of agricultural land, which is totally unacceptable in terms of State control over the quality of such land and the condition of such land in general. This once again shows that there is no completely state policy on agricultural land. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u33	Thank you. I bet on the vote amendment of 1529 People's Deputies Vlasenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:40:10]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1532, Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u34	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Regarding our amendment to the Opposition Platform for Life, I want to say the following. First, the right to own and dispose of land or land as property, which is what this is about, does not mean that the elimination of fertile soil or fertile layer is an exclusive right of the owner. Therefore, these suggestions allow the landowner to carry out his or her actions within the scope of, as it were, the property subject, passing the control bodies of the state authorities and the landowner. I want to say, look, by the will of the people, the state controls and governs land relations, and that's why we insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u35	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. I bet on the vote of amendment 1532 of the German and Shufric People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:41:52]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next 1533. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, now this is not just a matter of fertile soil, but it is a question of what the owner of the land can do, where there are objects of property that do not belong to them. Let us then see what this bill foresees. If there are objects of state or other form and other legal persons, objects of property, how can this be done without permission, without the permission of State control authorities, by the owner of this assignment? It's already, in fact, an issue relationship, and writing out as the exclusive right of the owner -- it's not an option. So we ask you to support our proposal and go back to editing the Earth Code now in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u37	Thank you. Please vote in favour of amendment 1533 of the German and Shufric People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:43:23]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1534, Shufrich, Kiwa Who's it gonna be? Nestor Ivanovich, are you Elijah Volodymyrovich? Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u38	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. With your permission, while I'm presenting our joint amendments, I'll make it easier for you to do your job, and I'll answer your question right away. Thank you. With regard to our correction. In fact, it prohibits it from being controlled by the very possibility of transporting the land cover regardless of who owns the land. And that's absolutely right. Unfortunately, there have been times when our blacks and our fertile land wanted to be exported abroad, and this has not always been the case, unfortunately, there are such sad pages of our history. Therefore, it would be desirable to leave this issue in its proper form. Sadly, this offer did not pass. So we're proposing a new version of this position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u39	Thank you. I am voting on amendment 1534 of the People’s Deputies of Shufrich and Kiwi. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:44:54]] For-58 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1539, Pauline, that's what I understand. Yeah? Lukashev. Oh, no? Please, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u40	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In fact, this amendment relates to part two of Article 168 of the Land Code, where I propose, inter alia, after the words "landowners and land users, have the right to remove and transfer land-based land-covering solely on the basis of the established work-based land-use structure" to add: "on the basis of decisions of the ARC Supreme Council, the ARC Council of Ministers of the relevant executive authority or the local self-government body." In our opinion, local executives and local self - government should know, control and answer when actual transfers of fertile soil into the territory in which they care are carried out. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u41	Thank you. I am voting on the amendment of 1,539 national deputies Lukshev and Pavlovka. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[10:46:27]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1541, Koltunović, Zagradni. Who's it gonna be? Yuri Ivanovich Zagradni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u42	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. You know, this morning, when I was on my way here to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on Andriev's eve, I saw this content: "The great fast is the time to forgive. And the Great fast is the time to do good things." And it seems to me that it would be a very good thing if the majority took courage and removed all antinational laws related to the earth. I think that, after such a step, the people of Ukraine would forgive the majority after these laws would be considered in an all-U.S. referendum, and only through the results of the U.S. referendum could a new package of land bills, bills that open the market for land, and only then, by implementing the articles of the Constitution 5, 13 and 14, could these bills be considered in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u43	I bet on the vote of amendment 1541. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[10:48:04]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 1546, Germany. [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't hear. What's that? 15. Look, we end up with confirmation, we agreed when we started looking at this project, at the very end we're putting everybody on confirmation. No, look, we made a deal. Just give it to everyone. Look, I have a request for this. Each faction will then give a list of the amendments that it will put on confirmation at the end. Okay, okay. Now, let's do it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, 1546. National deputy of Germany. Vasil Ivanovich, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u44	I'm sorry, so give me an answer, I'll tell you. I have a minute, please turn on the timer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u45	Please turn on the timer from the start. 1546. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, we are already in the territory’s territory’s jurisdiction. You see, the drafters of the bill are so excited that the land within the territory of the inhabited area is being transferred to the property of the territorial community. Please state the very fact that the registration of the territorial community as owner does not give the territorial community the right to rule as owner. Because ownership is defined in the law’s form. That's the first one. And the second. When we speak of the local community, we should then give them authority, as this is granted to local authorities. Then they're going to be equal to equal. Please leave a copy of the current Earth Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u47	I'll bet you a vote of 1546. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:50:54]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 1547, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u48	Germany, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, let's listen to the Constitution of Ukraine, and this position, where we point out, we refer to the territorial community, see how it's written, who's a "territorial community": this is a population point, look what it is, or the inhabitants of the population, or is it a Ukrainian citizen? Moreover, the question of "united territorial communities" has no specification at all, nor does it have any constitutional personality. So all that we write here is written by the wicked one. And the territorial communities will not be able to exercise their rights. And the last. This is regarding the right of territorial communities to land outside these territorial communities according to the relevant limits.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u49	I'll put it to a vote. Please identify and vote. [[10:52:29]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, 1550
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national MPs, in fact, our faction has consistently continued to defend the rights of Ukrainian citizens to own their land and to prevent the adoption of laws that actually allow the sale of land to foreigners and the deprivation of future Ukrainians. It is also designed to support and give sufficient authority to the united territorial communities so that they can control, monitor, and monitor everything that is going on in this so - called land reform. Unfortunately, we are now seeing a situation where many OTG powers are passed on from one side to the other with inadequate resources. Or rather, a number of public policies simply do not define the authority of the local authorities, and the central authorities attribute to themselves what is not provided for by law, which often leads to chaos in implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u51	1550, no check. Please identify and vote. [[10:54:03]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, 1551.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u52	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. We have already begun a discussion as to whether it is appropriate to peddle the issue of the sale of land right now. The price of land is low. So today, we are making a desperate attempt to stop you on this insolent unjust path that can motivate people from July 1st, taking into account the low standard of living, the inability to obtain income, instead of renting to sell their land. And within a year or two, it could provoke the insurgency of the people who will come with the pitchforks and take their land back. So today, as one of Ukraine’s national deputies, who fought with blood for the earth’s market on October 25, 2001, I appeal to you: Surprise, create a stable Ukraine, the cost of real land, and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u53	1551. Please identify and vote. [[10:55:48]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next amendment, Yvchenko, 1554.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u54	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I thank the chairpersons for having us fully covered by Bill 2194. And I wanted us not to violate the Rules and the Rights of People's Deputies, including the Law, because you can see that we're not abusing what we're putting in there, but the mega-corruption rights that today want to go through this room, through this law, believe me, colleagues, they stand to be directly put to the vote today when we get to them. That's the first one. And secondly, colleagues, once again, I want to say that there are many things in this law that don't suit the national interests of Ukraine, they don't match decentralization as such, they won't allow communities to manage the land, they won't be able to do it in decades, and they won't be able to fill their own budgets, because most of the contracts at a low interest rate are already concluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u55	1554 is not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:57:25]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1555.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u56	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again of the European experience and how farmers who are doing organic production today, those who are doing animal production, especially those who are actually doing animal production today, are talking about not being able to compete with money, to compete with those who are going to buy their land. We actually have a whole field of animal life at risk, just like the strategic sector for agrarian Ukraine. It's organic production, it's a megastrategic industry, colleagues. Today, the cost of 1 hectare of organic production is up to $10,000. Imagine how, in the Poltava area, agroecology, which processes organic farming for 6,000 hectares, will buy these pies. Colleagues, let's think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u57	I bet on the vote of amendment 1555 of the People's Deputy Ivchenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:58:59]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1557, Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u58	Germany, "The Opposition Platform for Life" and the struggle for the land of the people of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, look where you've gone. We already define what the meaning of the earth system is, and nowhere do we see a parcel of the word cadastra. Do you understand, the drafters of the bill, what is cadastral in general, and what information does it contain? Without cadastral filling, our state in power is moving to sell land that has not been cadastred. They are available or not, whether they are already wet or even taken. So I would like us to get out of what is being done today and done in the current Earth Codex.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u59	1557, Germany. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:00:36]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1558, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u60	I'm talking about the contents of the earth, going on. The earth’s structure provides for the satisfaction of man’s needs. Read who this person is. You and I, we don't write it, we don't even mention it. Not to be mentioned in the earthly codex and the question that the earth is the property of the Ukrainian people. Read, then, what our sacred duties are: to protect honor and dignity and the dignity of a person’s life, respected colleagues. And so when we talk about earth’s affairs, we need to see people there first and foremost. That these are regulators aimed at ensuring the interests of landowners, users, or administrators. That's what we need to get out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u61	1558, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:02:05]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1559, Schofrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u62	Thank you, Mr. Head. As we continue our discussion, I want to give you a few examples. The cost of land in the Republic of Hungary starts with $8,000. The minimum wage, however, is $545. So in Hungary, the minimum wage is higher than the average wage. And so the average wage -- $1,240, and per capita GDP is 15,000,373 against 3,000,425 in Ukraine. Under these conditions, they have restrictions and absolute control over the failure of foreigners to buy land. What are we doing? We have not created the property of the earth or the value of the earth. And today we're actually blocking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u63	1559. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:03:39]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Kovalov, 1562.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u64	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. With regard to this bill, 2194 is the most painful question I would like to raise, which is the overwhelming right to purchase agricultural land. If we see exactly the lines from which the land of natural persons will be implemented to other individuals, or after the restrictions on legal persons have been lifted, we will see that people will not be able to sell their land quickly if they want to sell. And it's going to be so settled that people are actually going to sell to their tenants, or vertically integrated agroholdings, that they can buy this land by 20, 30, or 50 percent cheaper than the market. Last year we opened up this very market. But we opened it for another, just so that people could manage their property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u65	1562, Kovalov. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:05:10]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 1564, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, when it comes to people, I want to say that the renter is also a person. Today, you will see what the legislator has put them in, what conditions. That he can arrange his own pie, his land by permission of his master, with the permission of the tenant. So tell me, what's behind this? Maybe we'll find in this bill the right to terminate the lease early, and we won't find it either, because it's not for the renter's sake. And it's all about letting this land be bought, not by the holding companies, but by the people who have grouped up and rented it for 49 years, or by what, or by 7.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u67	1564, I put it to a vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:06:43]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 1565, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u68	Continuation. I'm going to say that these terms, the terms on which the leases are made, for at least a year now, are running and continuing these terms. They're willing to be in their lease on the day they get the right to a bunch of these lands. What is inconceivable here and for whom it is not clear who is behind it and who is behind it. And that's why these positions, as set out in this bill, contradict the notion and legal definition of the owner of the land, which is the people, who are the people who are deprived of the right to end the lease relationship this year if the renter violates the right of the ration of the person concerned or of the person concerned, and that is why we can go back to the active one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u69	I'm betting on a vote of 1565, Germany. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:08:12]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, 1569.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u70	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Regrettably, our previous amendments to the article had not been taken into account and to leave the norm of the existing Earth Code, where, by the way, there was an opportunity to terminate the lease and thereby protect the rights of landowners. So today we are proposing a new edition of the corresponding article that reflects the interests of landowners rather than those who will rent land for the sole purpose of protecting the rights of those who are in need today, who are unable to live in peace and dignity today, and who are not to be robbed, and if unjust acts are to be done about them, so that they have the right to defend themselves. Therefore, I ask that the amendment be put to the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u71	I'll put 1569 to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:09:46]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 1579. Slavic Antonina Kerimovna. 1575, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u72	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues! A fairly simple amendment, it envisions leaving the preceding article, the title of article 186 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. You know, with the opportunity, I want to say that we often, when we say that we need to hold an all-U.S. referendum, are complained that President Zelensky's pre-election program had a point called "Forming a clear market for land." So I want to quote this point. The Ukrainian’s economic passport has to be introduced, each child will have the right to store part of the national natural resources — nadra, land, and so forth. After reaching adulthood, the child will receive these savings as his own starting capital. That these words have to do with this draft law, which actually simplifies the mechanisms for changing the target destination.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u73	I am betting on the amendment of 1575 national deputies of Volosin and Slavicki, and the committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:12:28]] For-58
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u74	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, we will continue to work, but I ask you to approach the rostrum of the leaders of the MP factions and groups for a moment. Volosin, Slavicka, 1576.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u75	This right suggests leaving the previous edition of article 186 of the Code of Land, according to which the territorial authorities of the central executive body, which implements public policy in the field of land relations, leave the authority for the harmonization and approval of land administration documentation. You know, dear colleagues, we understand perfectly and we see that there is no potential for taking into account one or the other rights, the proposals of the national MPs. At the same time, we hope that, during the consideration of the bill, you will find time to familiarize yourself with the conclusions of the legal administration, which clearly states that this bill is contrary to the Constitution and should be sent to the proposed drafting. And I'm asking you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u76	I bet on the vote of amendment 1576 of the People's Deputy Volosin, Slavicsky. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:14:00]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1579, Slavicka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u77	Yes, this right is proposed to add a paragraph to the first part of article 186 of the Earth Code, which provides for an additional agreement procedure for the development of a land structure scheme. We believe that the process of harmonization of land systems and technical and economic land-based land is necessary in terms of the logic of the bill, because it aims to create a transparent and simplified mechanism for land-relationship regulation. Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u78	I bet on the vote of amendment 1579. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:15:05]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1572, Royal, Pavlovenko Please, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u79	The honourable chairman, respected colleagues, actually, refers to the amendment to article 186 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. And I would like to add to this paragraph the following: "The systems of the land structure and the technical and economic justifications for the use and protection of the land of the territorial administrative units are subject to strategic environmental assessment." What is the point of this amendment? Regrettably, the proposed draft of the new 186 articles does not provide for a strategic environmental assessment of the land system and the technical and economic justification for the use and protection of the land of the territorial units. In our view, this creates a legal basis for lowering their level of protection and presents serious corruption risks. A general amendment, please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u80	I am voting on the principle of amendment 1582, the National Deputies of the Royal and the Pavlovenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:16:38]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1590, Vlasenko. Okay. Thank you. 1592, Pavlovenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u81	Your Honourable Chairman, Your Honor, I ask you to put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u82	I bet on the vote of 1592 national deputy Lukasheva and Pauline the amendment. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:17:28]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1598. Coltunovich, please. 1598. Who. Ah, Zagradi Yuri Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u83	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. You know, the political party program "The Opposition Platform for Life" clearly states that the land must remain the property of Ukrainian peasants, and the opening of the land market is based only on the U.S. referendum. If we take the pre-election program of Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelensky, it is also written: form a transparent market for the earth. And the clear market for the earth can only be formed on the basis of the U.S. referendum. So it turns out that today all the bills that are being considered in the Supreme Council on opening the market for land should be removed, all the questions should be put to the U.S. referendum, and the referendums should form a new package of these bills and consider them in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus the will of the Ukrainian people will be done, and the land of the Ukrainian people will be preserved. Thank you. I'm asking you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u84	Thank you. 1598 to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:19:11]] For-55 The decision is not made. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1599, Slavic Antonina Kerimovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, this right is proposed to leave the previous edition of part three of Article 189 of the Earth Code. To our conviction, the exclusion of this part is not logical, since there is a need to ensure self - control over the use and protection of land by rural, rural, urban, district and district councils. And once again, it is worth noting that the draft law prepared by the committee for the second reading is not in fact different from the previous draft of the bill by Parliament, but rather, by content, the provision of the Constitution for citizens to manage their land and to take part in the approach to the acquisition of land for agricultural purposes by foreigners. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u86	I'm betting on a vote of 1599, Slavicka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:35]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Pavlovenko, 1602.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u87	Dear Mr. Head, the honourable colleagues, in fact, under what conditions is this law being considered, may be approved and still be implemented? Regrettably, under a sufficiently weak institutional capacity of the Ukrainian State today as central and local authorities. Now, by analyzing reports, information coming from different spheres, from different departments, you know, resents when the amount of error is identified by individual ministries and called by reforms, and total lie in their reports, generalizing, passing and defining how reports of success in this implementation. Regrettably, this is also true of the area covered by the bill. So I am confident and supportive of those colleagues who have spoken in this room on many occasions. This law needs to be redrafted, but it must be considered only after an all - Ukrainian referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u88	I'll bet you 1602. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:22:00]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next line is 1603, Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u89	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Edit 1603 and Edit 1605 are identical. Sadly, they are rejected. So I'm asking you to put both these amendments to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u90	Thank you. Then I immediately amend 1603, the authors Coltunovich, Zagradni. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:22:45]] For-54 The decision is not taken. And I'll put it to a vote right away. The committee also rejected. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:05]] For-55
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u91	The decision is not taken. 1608, Pavelenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u92	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This is actually another amendment that I am trying to make, in any way, to bring the law into line with the Constitution, in accordance with the wishes and the stated purpose for which they have spoken, particularly the authors of this bill. Unfortunately, very often we see in laws that we approve, or in decisions of authority, when actual actions, daily work is replaced by slogans, replaced by goals or tasks that are never performed. And a strong enough state machine that is now at the central and local levels can make this law extremely dangerous and create additional problems for Ukrainian citizens. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u93	I'm betting on a vote of 1608, Pavlenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:39]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Garden, 1612.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u94	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. You know, there are several patterns of land market in the world. The most popular models are the Anglo-Saxon, American, Japanese, Latin American corporate and Latino-Latino-Fundist model of the land market. Experts believe that the most progressive is the Japanese market model of the land, but again, according to experts, in Ukraine, according to a bill that is passed, is being considered in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a Latin American corporate and Latino-Fundist model of the land market is being introduced that leads to the deforestation of peasants and the destruction of farmers. As a result of this and the evaluation of experts, our political power believes that these bills should be removed from the public mind at all as anti-nationals and put into a nationwide referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u95	1612. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:05]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1618, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u96	Dear Head, my fellow countrymen, the law is equally directed to protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian farmers, and to prevent the sale of land to foreigners. Again, we continue to force this bill to be put to the vote and Parliament's will to work or to be rejected in general, and we have returned to its consideration once Ukrainian citizens in the U.K. referendum have been able to express their position on opening up the agricultural market or not opening up, selling land or not selling it, that is the right of a Ukrainian citizen, not the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u97	Thank you. I'll bet you 1618. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:27]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1619, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u98	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. According to articles 13, 14 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Ukrainian people are the owner of the land, and a referendum is then necessary. The president promised, unfortunately, not to do anything. The "Patternal Party" has launched organizational arrangements to organise an all-U.S. referendum asking whether Ukrainian citizens support the sale of Ukrainian agricultural land. If that is the case in this referendum, the Ukrainian people need to draw up a law that will first provide the Ukrainian farmer with the opportunity to work and be the master of his agricultural land. Anyone who wants to sell the land must sell it to the State, the State must exercise control over the agricultural land of Ukraine. That is how the Law on the Opening of the Agricultural Land Market should be built, unfortunately not as it was built today. Therefore, I ask that my amendment 1619 be supported and the law not to vote for itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u99	I'll bet you 1619. Please identify and vote. [[11:28:57]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Pavlovenko, 1625.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u100	Dear Mr. Head, this bill concerns part of article 186 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, and in our view it is extremely important that this bill makes the bill minimal if it is adopted and implemented in violation of the rights of Ukrainian citizens. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u101	I'll put it to a vote of 1625. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:29:57]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 1626, Zagradni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u102	Thank you. Amendment 1626 tells us that paragraphs 2 and 3 of part 13 should be left in the correct order. This edition reads as follows: "In the event that, on the basis of inventory materials, land formation is carried out at the expense of state and municipal property, the determination of their status, as well as the assignment of such land to certain categories, the technical documentation with the land inventory system agrees with the order set out in Article 186-1 of this Code. The placement of particularly valuable lands defined by paragraphs "a" and "b" in the first part of article 150 of this Code is prohibited in other categories of inventory materials." Therefore, I ask you to put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u103	I'll put it to a vote of 1626. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:31:16]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Pavlenko, 1634.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u104	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In fact, the law also applies to 186 articles of the Code of Land. But that's the motivation of the many rights that we represent today. Now, starting today, at the beginning of the meeting of the Supreme Council, speaking from the rostrum, I was talking about the violent violations of the rights of the child in implementing the deinstitutionalization reform. It would seem to be the right goal, the right goals. But the inefficiency, inefficiency, unprofessional work of the central authorities has already led to numerous violations of children’s rights. It leads to action at a local or mechanical level, or it is generally contrary to decisions that have been adopted at the central level. And it's a huge wonder if you can do effective land reform if you can't do childish reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u105	I'll bet you 1634. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:56]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1635, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u106	Dear Mr. Head, thank you for being able to present the amendment. Continuing this subject, the same applies to 186 articles, but I would like to hear a room of motivation in which we can enforce this law. It would seem that the protection of a child’s rights could be even more responsible in terms of the work of an official than at the central and local levels. But even here there are numerous violations, there are failures, there is a deformity of politics, where the stated goal does not correspond to the actual outcome of a particular child when there is no service at the local level, but an internal institution is eliminated, and a large proportion of children are left without service at all. So we can't put the order in order in itself, it would seem, to be a responsible policy that should be for the Ukrainian state. You can only imagine the horror.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u107	1635. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:34:26]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 1636, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u108	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, as we continue this discussion of 186 articles and rights, I would like once again to take as an example the policy that is being pursued by the State today in the interests of family and children. What, what's wrong? The main thing that has not been done or done is that the basic lowest level of implementation of a policy to help protect a child or a family that is in difficult circumstances. People in rural areas suffer the most. In a rural area where children are deprived or deprived of many new educational, medical, social services decisions, being left alone with their problems, or with unscrupulous adults who abuse them. Add this land reform to it, and we can lose a whole generation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u109	1636. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:35:54]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 1637, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u110	I continue to insist on the need to amend this bill or to reject it as quickly as possible in order to move on to those laws that are actually awaiting Ukrainian citizens today. Why? Because to consider and enforce this law without asking people through the U.S. referendum, in my opinion, is wrong in relation to the citizen of our state. And once again, first of all, after the U.S. referendum, or to bring to it the system of government authorities from the Ministry to the local authorities, from those who provide policy, to those who control clearly defined differentiated powers, and only then to impose some new forms of work or reform, all the more so painful.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u111	1637. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:37:28]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 1638, Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u112	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. You know, a lot of the papers in this room point out that this bill is imperfect. Yes, indeed, he is imperfect because more than 3,000 amendments are made to him. Our political power, "The Opposition Platform for Life" has submitted almost 900 rights, but the majority have also submitted a huge number of rights to this bill, more than 1,200. We can see why the majority gave up their rights. These remedies stand for only a few political forces that stand in the principled position that the earth must remain the property of the Ukrainian people. But the very fact that there is a right to this bill says that this bill needs to be withdrawn immediately, sent for further processing and only then considered in the sessional room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. And I'm asking you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u113	1637, Garden Law. The committee is not supported, Yuri Ivanovich. So please identify and vote. [[11:39:02]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 1645, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u114	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, yes, we continue to insist on every direction and continue to insist that this bill should be sent for further work. But by motivating why voting for this right is important, I will also set an example, for example, in the policy on children that I have already had the opportunity to talk about. This would seem to be the Ministry of Social Policy, which should be the main protection of the rights of the child, but because of its non-professionalism, the misunderstanding that needs to be done, the failure to implement legislation has become a key violation of the rights of the child. Sadly, this is true of many ministries and departments. There is no single management system, such as child service, that leads to the deformity of policies in the 1,400 united communities today, where each one leads his or her own politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u115	1645. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:40:35]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1642. Kovalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving the floor. Regulation 1642. I would like to raise the issue in this bill on agricultural land donation agreements. You know that, as laid down in this particular bill 2194, the very donation of agricultural land, they violate the Constitution of Ukraine, specifically Article 14. In addition, there is a limited number of people who can be donated land. This is also a violation of the Civil Code of Ukraine. Therefore, I do not think that the Earth Code would be in conflict with the Civil Code, would be contrary to article 14 of the Constitution of Ukraine directly, which would give grounds for the accusation before the Constitutional Court of the bill in question. I think this rule is unacceptable in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u117	1642. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:07]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next issue, 1652, Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u118	Thank you. Regrettably, the presiding officer did not make any adjustments to settle the issue of the agreement of the land administration, which should be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. To be honest, I don't understand why it was so against this norm, but even order itself shouldn't have left the right of approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and all of this goes inexplicably. I understand it's a lot easier to do on the ground. So I'm going to insist that there's still an important edition of the Earth Code, which, once again, under very difficult conditions was adopted on October 25, 2001. And I ask you to show respect for our fellow MPs of the third vocation, who at that time, by introducing the land market, understood that people needed to be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u119	1652. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:43:43]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Pauline, line 1666.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u120	Please pass the word to Natalia Yuriovna Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u121	Natalia Juryovna Královska, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u122	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! The position of our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" remains unchanged. The essence of this bill and this amendment is to sell Ukraine for nothing. Our team will never do that, and we're going to the hall. Everyone is looking forward to a decision by the Constitutional Court. And we all understand that this bill is also contrary to the Constitution. The Act on the holding of the All-U.S. referendum has already been signed. And we're addressing the whole country's leadership. The first referendum that needs to be held right now is a referendum to ask people whether they agree to sell their land for nothing. Without a referendum decision, this law is impossible to pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u123	Thank you. I'll put it to a vote of 1666. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:45:37]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Germany, 1672.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, by supporting our proposal, I would like to remind you that we today have the Earth Code and the Constitution. These are the beacons that we should follow in our legislative activities. And when we talk about communities, about united communities, about human beings first and foremost, we need to verify through the Constitution and respect for their rights and freedoms. So tell me, please, what about here, where the rights, rights and freedoms of free tenure are owned by the renting people, the renters who hand over their land rations, their land shares, I'm sorry if they've given up and handed over to renters, but can't stop for the time being?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u125	I'm betting on a vote of 1672 Germans. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:47:18]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1670, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u126	Thank you, Mr. Head. In its conclusion of October 8, 2020, the Venice Commission called the legislative process in the Supreme Council of Ukraine imperfect and said that there is often a rapid vote, there is often a fragmented approach, there is often no proper assessment of the consequences of the legislative process, and sometimes, or often enough, insufficiently clear wording. All these characteristics can be fully applied to the bill that we're talking about. In addition, the control of the State, particularly the lands that are in the alienation zone, is being completely decommissioned. Any agreement with the land state of the alienation zone, which is complete and total absurdity, is completely deleted. In fact, this should not be the case, as evidenced by the absence of State policy. And under this law, we need to hold a referendum, which is organized by Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u127	I'll bet on the vote 1670 Vlasta. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:00]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. 1673, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u128	Germany, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, see how we have been united here, synthesized the law enforcement function of the executive bodies, not the law enforcement structures, but the executive bodies. What are you talking about? Is this about the NAB that was declared unconstitutional, or what? How could such a question be resolved? If this is a sector of law enforcement, please stick to it and resolve it precisely in terms of law enforcement rather than law enforcement, let it even be central. Enough of us to create quasi-scientific organs that take on inequity functions leads to rights violations. Please leave the law in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u129	1673. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:50:36]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Schofrich, 1674.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u130	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The relevant law applies to the standard under which State control over land use and protection is established by the central authority. I don't understand why this opposition is, why it doesn't satisfy the norm in the current Earth Code. Who should control land use and protection if not the State? So this desire to bring it all down and actually leave this process uncontrollable is unacceptable and disturbing our political power. That's why we're proposing to leave a valid editorial. And in this case, considering that this is no longer possible, we propose a new edition of this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u131	I'll bet you 1674. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:52:05]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 1682, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u132	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, is actually another important amendment that concerns our team's efforts to improve this bill in order to at least bring it into line with the Constitution and the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Although our position is unalterable, it must be put to work or cancelled as a result of a vote. And today we should not be talking about this law. But I'll remind you that we have a government working today without the proper program of action of the Cabinet of Ministers. We have a clear, clear country policy today. We should be talking about the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers, not the land reform that this powerless government will be carrying out. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u133	I'll bet you 1682. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:53:37]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1683, Lukashev. Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u134	And Pauline. Yuri Pavlenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Commenting on the bill, citing the need for its approval, the authors say that all this deliberate land reform will lead to a serious involvement of investments and, as a result, to the rise of the Ukrainian economy. But let's look at last year, at the beginning of this year. For the first time in many years, there was an outflow of foreign direct investment about $870 million last year. What is the investment attractiveness of Ukraine today and the possibility of investment from July 1st if Ukraine’s investment attraction as a state is demoralized and effectively undermined today. And this is the result of the unprofessional work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the first place, as well as the authorities in general, particularly here, in this room, the laws that we approve.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u135	I'll bet you 1673. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:55:17]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 1685, Lukashev, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u136	Dear Mr. Head, as I insist on voting for this amendment, I would like to reiterate the conditions under which this law may be enacted. There's a markedly serious impoverishment of Ukrainian citizens, which is confirmed by both low purchasing power and debt, which is now on pay and Ukrainian citizens for housing and utilities, unemployment, which has been growing and has become record-breaking in recent decades. And in these circumstances, do we want people to sell their land at the maximum cost? But no, they're going to sell for nothing because they have to survive somehow, and that's how they're going to concentrate the land in large landowners or transnational companies. And this law allows foreigners to buy land by depriving Ukrainian citizens of their rights in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u137	I bet on the vote of 1675, Pauline. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:46]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Germany, 1679.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, when it comes to the use or management of land relations, it is necessary to see more involved in this legislative process of public control, public associations, and central authorities taking on inequity functions, even before decisions are taken on specific matters. When we talk about central authority control functions, let's make it defined and done systematically, by the way, as it is today in the Earth Code. Who came up with that bike, the more three-wheeler you won't fall, the more behind it? And here's the clear question of selling the land. So please leave the paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u139	1689. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:18]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1690, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u140	As I go on, I want to say that by proposing this bill, the legislator has disengaged the powers of councils and the powers of rural councils, local governments. Dear colleagues, look at the council today, district councils. They've been cut short, they haven't been invented, there's no funding. And so when we talk about the Council's mandate, we have to make it clear that they're not even able to support primary health care for citizens today, because there's no subsidies, there's no funds, and there's no government funding for that. What language can we use to implement control functions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u141	I'm betting on the vote number 1690. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:59:50]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. There's a break until 1:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. Pavlenko, 1694. Can we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u143	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we continue to work on this bill. In fact, we will continue to insist on voting for every amendment made by the members of the Opposition Platform for Life, because this is how we want to bring this bill into line with the Constitution and so that it is in the interests of Ukrainian citizens, not those who want to buy Ukrainian land for no price. So please put my amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u144	I'll bet you a vote of 1,694. Please identify and vote. [[13:02:27]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Garden, 1695.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u145	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. My 1695 law reads as follows that self-governance of land use and protection is exercised by rural, rural, urban, district and district councils. But this correction is rejected. I realize that according to the new district division, the district councils have not yet been authorized, but the authority of rural, rural, urban, district councils is clear to all of us. I would like Mikola Tarasovich to explain why this amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u146	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Can we put it to a vote? Committee position. Please, Mikola Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u147	Committee position. This amendment is rejected because these standards are already regulated in this project by other standards and do not match the idea of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u148	I'm betting on the vote of 1695 of the City Jury Ivanovich. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:59]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, 1696.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u149	Thank you, Your Honor. We were all glad to finally hear Mikola Tarasovich’s voice. As for the amendment, I'd like to say that we're asking you to rule out innovation and leave the text of the current Earth Code. We believe that the authority of the local authorities has been regulated, has been regulated 20 years ago. Maybe Mikola Tarasovich doesn't know about this. But I would like to make some interesting points, including Mikola Tarasovich. For example, the minimum wage in Poland is $722 and the average wage is $1 thousand 404. So if "ministers of the people" made such wages and pensions, you could sell the land for 10,000 dollars per hectare, and while you want to steal it for nothing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u150	I'll put it to a vote of 1696. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:31]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. A hairline? Volosin, 1697. Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u151	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, I looked with interest at the Facebook page of one of my esteemed colleagues from the vast majority of the questions: do they believe the MPs from the opposition to the papers they're making? Of course, we don't just believe it, we can honestly believe that in today's and today's world markets cannot be launched in the same form, especially in which they are now trying to create it. I have a question about whether you believe you're voting yourself, whether you're getting a "recovery" from the Bank to just vote for everything you're offered, because otherwise you're very afraid to lose the favor of the presidential team. This is the main question that we know for sure and do not hide that all of our adjustments, such as those of our colleagues from Fatherland, are all about one thing: not letting the land market run in a poor country during a war that hasn't ended. That's it. This is a key goal that we don't hide and work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u152	I'm betting on a vote of 1697, Blondie. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:09]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next amendment, Schofrich, 1702. Don't insist. 1702, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u153	He's still alive, he's still alive, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u154	God bless you, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u155	Thank you. There's 1701, look, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, the question is what? That we, as legislators, are trying to bring public control into the body of the Earth Code in a synthesis of state control. What powers of public control? If you wanted and duplicated the national control that was in Soviet Ukraine, say so and say that we broke it for nothing, he was right to exist. And in this case, what do we suggest? If they do not have the authority to implement the imposition of the responsibility for the delicts.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u156	I'm betting on the vote in 1702. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:08:58]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Next issue, 1705, Schofrich. Don't insist. Pavlenko, 1708.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u157	Dear Mr. Head, your esteemed colleagues actually apply the law to article 190 of the Code of Land and propose some technical changes there. At the same time, I would like to continue with the topic that has been discussed from the point of view of investment. Will this so - called land reform give rise to an inflow of investment into the country? And as this law generally harmonizes, these joyful assurances that the sale of land will bring an investor with the sanctioning policy that the Ukrainian authorities today demonstrate when it is imposed in a non-judicial way on legal persons, on individuals, the television channels are closed. In my opinion, it undermines confidence in the country, and it destroys the country's investment attraction. As a result, we had the year 2020, its conclusion, I do not rule out that the sums of 2021 will be even worse for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u158	1708. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[1:10:42]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Pauline, 1710.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u159	Yes, Mr. Head, thank you for being able to present an amendment. Now, by continuing this policy of sanction, which undermines trust in a country that is virtually nullified by justice and capacity, the ability of a person, a citizen or a legal person, and even more of a Ukrainian citizen to defend his right in a court of law, in my opinion, is pushing people away from investing in money, developing and creating something new. That is why our rights are also aimed at ensuring that land reform is within the framework of the Constitution and that the land reform it is meant to be is determined, not by Parliament, but by the Ukrainian people through the Ukrainian referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u160	1710, Pawel. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:58]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Pauline, 1712.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u161	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished reporter, distinguished colleagues! It is by appreciating this bill that, in my opinion, weakens the ability and the ability to control and manage this policy to the central authorities of the executive branch and in general much of the deregulation that it will enable those people who will buy Ukrainian land at no cost to be abused. Thus, the right is aimed at strengthening the institutional capacity and capacity of the Ukrainian State to protect Ukrainian peasant, Ukrainian citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u162	I'm betting on a vote of 1712. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:13:13]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1713, Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u163	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I've already talked about it yesterday, and I'll tell you today. It's obvious to everyone that any conscious person in today's circumstances is primarily focused on the security situation that has taken place around Ukraine today. And it's not just dangerous, it's extremely dangerous. Thank God, yesterday two foreign politicians called each other, and Ukraine, and the world with them took a step away from the gap. Because the tactics that the authorities are proposing today in this situation are known to one of your colleagues from a monopoly: "the spores are falling out of this country." That's all you're suggesting, rather than allowing Parliament to really focus on finding ways to resolve the conflict peacefully in Donbas, by starting a discussion of the bills that are envisaged by the political component of the Minsk Accords. That would be our contribution. We don't have to rely on Moscow and Washington to make deals, and we're just going to sit here and see if there's gonna be a big war or not. And you're loud as long as you're stretching all the lobbying laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u164	I'm betting on a vote of 1713. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:14:45]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Royal Natalia Yuriovna, 1718 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, respected TV viewers, as to the substance of this bill and the bill, the position of our team is clear: Ukrainian land cannot be sold to foreigners. That's the first one. The other one. You cannot sell Ukrainian land without asking people today. And the third. We call upon this hall, we call upon the leadership of the country, today there are all legitimate grounds to hold an all-U.S. referendum to ask people whether they want their land to be sold at no cost today. That's why "The Opposition Platform for Life" asks you not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u166	I'll bet you 1718 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:19]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Germany, 1719.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u167	Germany, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Honorary colleagues proposed in the bill provide for the synthesis of control over the use and protection of functions by the State. Well, first of all, it needs to be disassembled as a minimum. And secondly, there is no way that people are not bound to social groups. We also know, starting with a volunteer and civil control, what it is and what it might be. How does it rely on standards of law? Absolutely cannot be given fiscal powers by public authorities. If possible, make it a law, not make it up. And secondly, how can we accept it in a consistent way?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u168	I'll bet you 1719 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:17:56]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. 1720, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u169	I'm fine with the sequel, dear colleagues. I would like to say that on the basis of the right definition of land use and what control of their protection, of these lands, of proper use, these are completely different concepts, they cannot be unified in the same norm. See how this is done in existing legislation. That's the first one. And the second. Again, what can be the functions of public control in relation to protection, in the performance of security functions? If we're talking about usage, we can talk about it. The public is watching and controlling to be used within the framework of the rules. What are protective measures, please tell me? So come back.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u170	I'll bet you 1720 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:19:30.]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Schufrich, 1721.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u171	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention. We love Poland very much, don't we? So in Poland, the minimum pension is $464 and in Ukraine it is 65. That's why it's worth selling land today because it's worth about $10,000 a hectare. And we want to raise the land to a maximum of 1,000, to a maximum of 1,000, to a maximum of 200 dollars. And it's time to pick up our landowners. Therefore, our political power, whose individual deputies voted in favour of the Code of Earth in force, is now insisting that this issue be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u172	You mean not to vote for this amendment, right, take the question off? Can we move on? And yet we're not filming this question? I'm betting on a vote of 1721. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:21:11]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 1724, Puzichuk. Don't insist. Burgundy Yuri Ivanovich, 1736
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u173	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. This room has already had the names of the developers of the Ukrainian Codex earth. I would also like to call another name of the expert on land relations in Ukraine, Paul Ivanovich Hadewick. Paul Ivanovich Hadewicki wrote a beautiful monograph called "The Truth About the Earth Market". By the way, Paul Ivanovich is the brightest proponent of the land market in Ukraine. So in his monograph "The Truth About the Earth Market" in Ukraine, he's running World Bank calculations on how the World Bank calculates the cost of 1 hectare of land in one country or another. And these calculations show that there is a direct attachment to GDP per capita. In Ukraine today, GDP per capita is the lowest in Europe, meaning that the price of land in Ukraine today is the lowest. And under such conditions that today, when the land is the cheapest, such a law cannot be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u174	I'm betting on the vote of 1736. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:22:57]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 1731. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u175	Kirilenko, Fatherland. The essence of the adjustment. By destroying the entire chapters, paragraphs, paragraphs and sub-items of the existing Earth Code, balancing the entire system of land relations in Ukraine, the obvious goal is pursued: to implement the land market in the country as quickly as possible and to encourage, listen, sell their pies to 6 million peasants, 90 percent of whom are elderly people, but they have about 25 million hectares of land. All over the world, there's a price of about 1,000 dollars per acre. It is said that a few years later, the price may grow slightly. People are clearly implied, sell now, for you may not live until then. Now, what's the beauty of the game? In Germany several hundred hectares of land were sold last year. In the North, in the Baltic region, sand is between 30,000 and 70,000 euros per hectare. Bavaria, the highlands, the coals — 110-170,000 euros per hectare. Clearly, local frauds will buy up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u176	I'm betting on a vote of 1731. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:24:28]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1732, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u177	Thank you, Mr. Head. Once again, I remind you that the Venice Commission, appreciating the legislative work of the Supreme Council, has clearly written that this is a bad piece of legislation and said, including that the Supreme Council does not calculate the consequences of its legislative action. In particular, we are offered the opportunity of the owner of the land to take down the top fertile soil, the fertile layer of soil, and do whatever it takes. And in fact, we're offered such a bizarre responsibility for the seemingly purposeless use or violation of the conditions of removal, preservation and use of fertile soil. That is to say, it is absolutely clear that this bill confirms that it does not have an understanding of how land reform really needs to be implemented, that is, everything is done to make it happen in chaos without consulting people. Fatherland consults with people and holds a referendum on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u178	I'm betting on a vote of 1732, Vlasenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:26:01]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Shufrich, 1741. Germany? Germany, 1741.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u179	Dear fellows, in football it's called the semifinal, we're now going quietly to the Transitions. And look what this is all about. There was a user who was entitled to a ransom with a ransom schedule. Honorable colleagues, it's not laughter and sin, it's bullying peasants, it's bullying farmers, it's giving them the right to make paper by law, to make the ransom work. You just read it, we're depriving him of the lease he was renting. Then tell me, how can he exercise his right? It's a disgraceful norm. Please leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u180	1741, Germany. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:41]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1742, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u181	And I'll say it over and over again. And look what the norm is and who made it up that if this citizen, this peasant who works there, is snarling on this land, and he asks, give me a schedule, but he can't pay it off, he'll take it away or the community will take it away. What's next? What about making money for this person? Who thought about protecting and guaranteeing the right level, but the earth. Here is the question of the ransom. To realize its right to use the earth as a natural source of existence. Why do we deprive him of it? Ladies and gentlemen, you are becoming a victim of a crime against your people. History already knows what is going on. Please leave the code in this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u182	1742 was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:12]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Kiva, 1743. Don't insist. Oh, there's still Shufrich, yeah. Nestor Ivanovich, Illy Volodymyrovich is gone, you are for him. Amendment 1743.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u183	No, I just want to continue our discussion. And I want you to understand what's hurting us today. There are several Ukrainian national deputies who have already come to me and said, well, we really, well, in the sense of that word, we have given blood for the Earth Code and for the right of our citizens to own and sell land. But not for nothing! You can't imagine it was October 25, 2021. I'm sorry, in 2001. Sadly, in 20 years, no authorities have succeeded in creating the real value of the earth. So what's your hurry? Green-young. But people will curse you. Then, with the pitchforks, they will return the land that you are about to cause them to sell for nothing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u184	1743, Schofrich. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:30:51]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Burgundy Yuri Ivanovich, 1758
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u185	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. You know, we're having such an interesting professional discussion. True, the chairman of the committee withdrew from the discussion and did not take part in the discussion of the bill. And sociology, starting in 2019, has been producing solid results that about 74 percent of Ukrainian citizens answer the question that Ukraine is moving in the wrong direction. On the other hand, the second year has gone by, as the Law 2178-10 was passed. And all sociological research from 68 to 74 percent shows that people have a negative appreciation for the bill. This suggests that Ukrainian citizens do not accept agrarian reform, the market for land that today offers a monopoly and a valid regime of power. And that's why we have to go to people's meetings and film this bill and send it out for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u186	I'm betting on the vote of 1758 Zagradni. Committee editing supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:43]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1759, Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u187	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, I think it's clear to everyone that in today's conditions, Ukrainian Blacklands are more important than even strategic resources than oil or gas or other useful fossils. Because, according to all estimates of international organizations, the food deficit itself will be a major problem. And replace food, of course, with nothing. That is, if a combined hydrogen or other type of fuel comes in soon to replace oil, you will not be able to do so with food. So today, under these conditions, by launching the earth’s market, we are consciously doing everything in order to. In fact, it turns out that in order for the land to be bought for nothing, while in a few years they will be bringing out gold dividends. It is all the same if Saudi Arabia were to sell its oil deposits at a time when there was a war in the country, poverty and everything else. Today, however, Saudi Arabia is in complete control, as is the case with most other countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u188	I'm betting on a vote of 1759 Hair. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:16]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1755, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u189	Kirilenko, Fatherland. I read the essence of the law, so that everyone understands: "The land areas that are given to farmers, farmers, to the founders of farms, to become effective under this Code for permanent use, forever inherited property for the creation or maintenance of farming, are transferred free of charge to these Ukrainian citizens." Guys, let's make one gesture in this room, hand over the land to those who've owned it for 30 years. Why force them to buy what is theirs? People are good, is there no common sense? These people own their land, and they guarantee food security. They'll never sell this land, they've owned it for 30 years. But let's do it for free, at least we'll do one good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u190	I'm betting on the vote in 1755. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:34]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Volosin, 1773.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u191	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. And I want to continue again to compare the situation with land, because it has been much more traditionally discussed with fossils like oil. Look, I was just working with an international energy corporation in my own time. Only in the poorest and weakest countries do transnational corporations directly own oil deposits, in all others they are forced to be partners of national companies. This is what happens in Qatar, it happens in Saudi Arabia, Russia, the United States, and so on. And it's only in Nigeria or something. The same is true of the earth. You should first form a powerful national capital or state as the chief land manager and invest in it. I want to remind you that in 2012 the Chinese were willing to invest colossal money in our agrarian sector under.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u192	I'm betting on a 1773 vote, Vlorosyn. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:12]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Pauline, 1779.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u193	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, the amendment is rather technical. At the same time, analyzing the legislative novels that are being proposed by the current government in the context of the so-called reform of the land, is causing, in a diplomatic language, deep concern that the implementation of this land reform will increase the already crude orientation of the Ukrainian economy, will not, or will pose a direct threat to the final destruction of livestock and prepared food, and Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian peasants, after a certain period of time, simply turn it into a fortification. So in turn, we insist that first the referendum, let's prepare the state for the implementation of land reform, the geocadastral.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u194	I'm betting on a vote of 1779, Pauline. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:38:43]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Shufrich, 803.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u195	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, you know, we've been having this discussion for more than a week, and we all understand that the land certainly needs a master and the right of Ukrainians, I stress, that the Ukrainians have to be provided for the sale of land. What is it? Hungary, where the price of a hectare of 10,000 euros per hectare, is a limited amount of sales per person and a strict ban on any form of land to foreigners. Why can't we create a similar system? I'll tell you why, because they have the GDP per capita, $15,000, because they have the GDP of 9.5 million people and their territory the same as we have now. So we emphasize again, we create cost, we stabilize the situation in the country, and then we give people the opportunity to sell land at a cost.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u196	I'm betting on the vote in 1803. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:40:32]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Germany, 1804.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we are already moving on to regulating the responsibility for land-rights violations. So I would like to tell you that the expansion of this area of activity must be related to the subject of application, which unfortunately is not done here, and to the execution of these decisions. It's just going to, you know, lead to a railing in relation to the succulentity of these standards of application. Therefore, we insist that such an editorial should not mean that all are, without exception, subject to sanctions and enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u198	I'll bet you 1804, Germany. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:42:10]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Pauline, 1812. [[B in m in s a l in]] 1805, Kiwa or Shufrich. But not Germany. Nestor Ivanovich, I see, does not insist. See? Next. Nestor Ivanovich, please look at 1805.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your particular attention to our proposals. In advance, I say that I will insist that we vote on it. And once again, I want to pay attention to why we're in such a hurry. Why is it in the interests of tenants, exploiters, and not those who own the land and not their children? What are we doing today? Today, we will actually encourage grandmas, grandparents to sell land that their grandchildren could use, and then these children will come and demand the land back. Because it would be fair to say that the land was taken from their parents through fraud and direct theft. Therefore, we ask that we stop, postpone this law and work on issues that are relevant to our country and to our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u200	You can hear the offer very much. I'll put her to the vote, 1805. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:09]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1807, yes, Pavelenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u201	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, a reporter! This amendment refers to amendments to paragraph 2 of the Code on Administrative Offences. And with this right, I propose that the paragraph should be replaced by the words "on legal persons," which is the purpose of the regulation, which is to make it possible to bring responsibility in the event of the commission of an offence and of legal persons in the person of its supervisor. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u202	I'm betting on a vote of 1807. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:45:14]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1809, Vlasenko. Two revisions, yes, that's what I understand: 1809, 1810. After that, we can vote, right? Please turn on Sergei Volodymyrovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u203	Two changes, but one by one, Mr. Head, one by one. 1809. In fact, we've already discussed the issue that for the first time, virtually all restrictions on land removal and land transfer are being lifted. Earlier, the Ministry had to grant permission to do so. Today, however, we are told that only enough land is needed for this project, and continue to do whatever you can with the ground cover of the land. It's totally wrong. This is a completely incomprehensible decision, the result of which we will be able to absorb as yet incomprehensible as it is. When the top layers of soil are taken off almost arbitrarily, almost uncontrollable, and the result is only one, two, three years from now. This is a strategic thing for the Ukrainian state. But even that would have to be asked about in Ukrainian citizens and a proper referendum, which would be done by Fatherland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u204	I'm betting on the vote in 1809. Please identify and vote. [[13:46:55]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 1810, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u205	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, these two amendments relate to one issue, namely, the restoration of state control over the decommissioning of land. To my profound conviction, to the conviction of the Fatherland Party and the Fatherland faction in the Supreme Council, this process must be strictly controlled and should be of a sufficiently exclusive nature. That is why the previous edition of the Earth Code provided for agreement with the central executive body responsible for land issues. Now all of these limits are off. Now with the ground cover of land, you can essentially do anything you want. This is totally wrong, unacceptable, and shows that there is no State policy in those who have prepared this bill. And "Paternity" is going to do its thing, and we're going to organize a referendum and ask people how they see it, including that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u206	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, this question is often mentioned: How is this proposed by this law? In fact, without permission, which we have 100 percent of the 100s are corrupt. By permission, according to the design of the land structure, after removal of the top layer of soil. When we, for example, are allowed to build land under construction, we are expected to replace what is possible. So once again, after agreeing to the project, after developing a land structure to remove the top layer of soil, why once again get a corrupt permit? With that logic you need permission to use shovels, to transport bricks and anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u208	I'm betting on a vote of 1810. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:27]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1819, Royal. 18th? 1818, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u209	No, 1812.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u210	Vlasenko will, 1818.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u211	Thank you, Mr. Head. You know, that's an interesting enough logic for a committee representative. He says granting permits is a corrupt nurse. And I have a simple question. Who appointed the minister to issue these permits? This is your minister. You're the one who appointed the corrupter. Instead of telling, instead of actually fighting corruption inside ministries, you assign corruption first, and then you say, well, it's a corruption story, let's change it by law. It's schizophrenic logic from the point of view of the functioning of any state. You're responsible for government, you're responsible for government corruption, you're responsible for not taking bribes. And to cover up what's bribery, we've assigned a bribe here, and now he's taking bribes, and so we're changing the law, it's wrong, it's completely wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u212	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u213	The position of the committee and mine is very simple. This story was with all of us, once again, I emphasize, in all governments, including all the political powers in their time involved in the appointment of ministers. And it's at this very government that we're giving up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u214	I'm betting on the vote of 1818. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. Don't scream, please. [[13:51:35]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. 1819, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u215	Dear Mr. Head, it's really 1812, and 1813 is my due diligence, which I thank you for. At the same time, during the discussion, the honourable reporter, why do you continue this shameful policy of predecessors? What are the names of those who take bribes and who take bribes in power now? Call these people, call them to account! And not because of any violators, you want to deprive Ukrainian citizens of their influence and turn them into hostages of your so-called land reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u216	I'm betting on the vote in 1819, Pawel. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:42]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Coltunovich, 1821.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u217	It's a suburban.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u218	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u219	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. My 1821 paper. This right is about the application of fines for violations of land laws, environmental legislation in the processing and use of land. But in the Committee's consideration, this amendment was rejected and I think this is extremely important, it's economically sound, it's economically justified, and I'm asking you to put this right to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u220	I'm betting on the vote of 1821. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:48]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1822, Schofrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u221	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Unfortunately, the previous amendment of my colleagues was not, my colleagues, I apologize, supported, so we have insisted and amended in general to cancel the proposed changes and to leave a valid edition of the Earth Code, expressing respect for the people's deputies of Ukraine's third vocation, which, in much less comfortable conditions, have denied our citizens the right to ownership of land, the right to sell it in conditions where the value of real land is being realized, and not to stimulate the process of actually robbing our citizens with all the consequences. We're today, more specifically, sorry, in this case, you are, today you're causing the theft of land into our children and grandchildren, and you're not going to get away with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u222	I'm betting on the vote number 1822 Schuffritch. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:21]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Puzichuk, 1824.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u223	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, the head of the committee of the Soleski Mikola Tarasovich of the rostrum, officially stated that there are corrupt acts of officials appointed by you, by the majority and by the "ministers of the people". To confirm his words, I will give you some examples from my hometown of Zitomirsk. In 2020 it was illegal for the community to take 400 hectares of land into private property, where former Soviet CSPs were restored. This was all done in the headship of Mr. Leschchenk, who headed the Dergeokadastr, and is now the Minister of Agriculture whom you have appointed. So please comment like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u224	I'm betting on a vote of 1824. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:54]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 1825, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, me. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, I have prepared a speech on behalf of the Attorney General regarding the illegal removal of 4.5 thousand lands in the Zitomir region of the Malian united territorial community. This is a statement in the name of the Attorney General. I'll send it to all the SEDO deputies, you'll be able to sign it. And once again, this was done in 2020, when the State Department headed Roman Leschenko, today's profile minister. Mikola Tarasovich, and please explain how many more of these corruption risks you put into bill 2194, and where is the protection of Ukrainian farmers going here to protect Ukrainian peasants? Explain, then, what reasons do you have for trying to legislate this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u226	1825. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:58:23]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1831, Schofrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u227	Thank you. Dmitri Aleksandrovich, a respected colleague, is fined for failure to comply with the regulations of the controlling authorities. You see, on the one hand, we are doing everything we can to make the Earth Code as perfect as possible. To be punished for actual violations. But once again, I appeal to your conscience. Please tell me, Mikolo Tarasovich, this is how you will look your children in the eye when other children come to them in 10-15 years and say, "Your father has spoiled the earth. So he was standing in the rostrum, silently watching as they prepared a platform for looting the lands of our parents and grandfathers." So let's shake it up. Let's create a stable developing state with the real value of the earth, not cause it to actually break up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u228	I'm betting on the vote number 1831. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:00:00]] For-52
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-14-m0.u229	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
