ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u1	Are you ready to register? As always, I remind you, registration takes place by pressing the green button on the first left. Please register. [[10:01:56]] There are 170 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council open. Today is the birthday of our colleague Sophia Romanovna Fedina. Congratulations! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, there's been an announcement to take a break with the replacement for the performance. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Well, you know, we talked to you yesterday about this from the rostrum, that today at 9:15 a.m. today there's a meeting at the head of Parliament, all the factions' leaders had to be present. Because, you know, today's fare for every family is number one. And all about tariffs is corruption number one in the country today. And the money that people pay for tariffs is being paid off by billions of dollars into private accounts. It's all covered up. At 9:15 today, I thank the leadership of the Supreme Council, all gathered for a meeting, the factions' leaders gathered for a meeting to talk about how to find a way out of the tariff situation. Two factions have not come from the "Serve of the People" and from "European Solidarity". I can't understand, don't you care about the tariff issue? Are you not in the mood to consider it or not? In summary, the meeting was broken today. And I can say that all the factions that were at the meeting today, along with the leadership of the Supreme Council, have spoken a whole range of questions about what we will do next. The first thing that will be done. It is we at the Conciliation Council at the next sessional week that we will ask to vote directly on the Conciliation Council on the issue of the inclusion of the bill of all that relate to the tariff issue in order to determine which day we devote exclusively to tariffs. If the Conciliation Board does not vote in favour of one day of the tariff sessions, we will collect 150 signatures and insist that we hold an extraordinary session on Thursday of the next session week. 150 votes in the Supreme Council to consider tariff issues, I'm sure there are. And more than that, I have this expectation that if Bill 4680, which allows for the restoration of the order of supply of natural gas, heat, hot water in order that existed in the country for 23 years, by 2014, this Law 4680 will find support in the hall, even if decisions are not taken by the factions as a whole. In other words, dear friends, or parliament, will become a parliament, not a service staff, or deputies will serve people or promote corruption. And we are convinced that the next meeting of the Supreme Council, which will be devoted to normalizing the tariff situation, will show who is who in this room. And finally we vote on what people need, not what big corruption needs. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to article 232 pr. The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations the Supreme Council of Ukraine examines the report and report of state authorities and officials. According to article 6 of the Ukrainian Procurator's Act, the Attorney-General personally reports on the activities of the prosecutor's offices before the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its plenary session. In accordance with the Rules, the following procedure is proposed: the Prosecutor-General's report, up to 20 minutes; the Attorney-General's reply to questions from the Ukrainian National Deputies, up to 20 minutes; the presentation by a representative of the Professional Committee, up to 10 minutes; statements by MPs and groups, as usual, 3 minutes from each faction, i.e. 21 minutes. The general time to consider this question is 1 hour 11 minutes. Let's move on to the question. The General Prosecutor of Ukraine, Irina Valentinovna Vendiktova, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, distinguished deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! Almost a year ago, as I stood behind this rostrum, I took on the responsibility of restoring a powerful state institution capable of building on better international standards, ensuring a high quality of constitutional functions and effective coordination of the activities of law enforcement agencies. I promised the Ukrainian people my duties in good faith, honesty, and integrity, and always guided by the principles of the rule of law. This year I have not betrayed any of my promises and will continue to do so. And today, when I report to you, honourable national MPs, and to society, about our achievements in the 20th year, I can say for sure that we are moving decisively on the path of systemic change. And that's because last year it was really unforgivable for the prosecutor's office. Because he was filled with various dynamic processes that in one way or another affected the intensity of our work. This is the implementation of the process of reforming the Public Prosecutor's Office, the beginning of the activities of the Attorney General's Office, the completion of staff appraisals, the creation of district prosecutors and the preparation of district startups. To a certain extent, the state’s quarantine restrictions, particularly regarding the functioning of the judicial system, have made adjustments to the pace of our activities. However, under such difficult conditions of turbulence, we were able not only to ensure effective implementation of constitutional functions, but also to significantly improve the results of activities compared to 2019. I will begin with my most important promise: to continue reforming the public prosecutor's offices without any distortions. For no one is the secret that reforming the entire public prosecutorial system was primarily caused by an extremely low level of public confidence in this institution. And by means of emergency measures, without the complete renewal of the entire system, we were unable to do anything. So you and I in Parliament almost a year and a half ago supported the Green Reform of the Prosecutor's Office initiated by President Volodymyr of Ukraine, which became a decisive step towards a completely new model for the prosecution. So despite the doubts of all skeptics regarding the continuation of reform with the change of the Attorney General, I am prepared to report that it is now actually complete. What do we have to do with the results? In general, two thirds of prosecutors successfully passed the test in the prosecutor’s office: 7 thousand 157 out of 11 thousand 166 persons, 64 percent. Since January 2, 20th, he has started the work of the Attorney General's Office and since September 11, 20th, the district attorney's office. In the near future, district prosecutors will begin their work. And on that we will finally complete the reform of the prosecution's organs. Indeed, the relatively long process of reform has demoralized some of the prosecution’s teams. But we've been working together to restore the command spirit, and right now the prosecutors of all the chains are demonstrating systematic and effective activities. A key element of increasing the level of confidence of society in the public prosecutor's offices is the creation of a positive image of prosecutors as virtuous and independent professionals with zero tolerance for corruption. So we pay special attention to the development of new standards for the professional behavior of prosecutors and the system for evaluating their work. Last year, a modern training centre for Ukrainian prosecutors was fully operational, where every prosecutor has the opportunity to train with Ukrainian and foreign teachers using better international practices. The next promise I made is to launch the process of global and institutional transformation. For the first time in the history of the Public Prosecutor's Office, my order approved the Strategy for the Development of Prosecutor's Offices for 2021-2023. This is our clear, progressive guide that reflects our goals that we want to achieve in the coming years. With the support of the Office of the Council of Europe in Ukraine, work is under way to develop a broad concept of the development of criminal justice and the rule of law in which a powerful prosecutor will be at the centre. We continue to take complex steps to develop and implement electronic criminal conduct. We pay considerable attention to the development of complex and systematic changes to criminal and criminal procedural legislation, as well as to improving the regulation of law enforcement. Of the urgent and relevant bills for us: bringing the role of the procurator's offices into compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the establishment of a security guard for the introduction into the GDR only information that indicates the commission of a criminal offence. Also, the introduction of legislative grounds for conducting a special investigative investigation into figures who are hiding from the investigation authorities in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine and outside our country. So we, the honourable people's deputies, count on your support on these very important issues. And I am very grateful for yesterday's vote in the first reading of the Special Trial Investigation Bill. As far as the state of crime is concerned. By fully reshaping the work of revenge and effectively coordinating the activities of all law enforcement agencies, we have generally been able to influence the criminogenic situation in the state. Last year, more than 100 coordination and joint meetings were held by district prosecutors, and I personally held six. First of all, the Office of the Attorney General discusses the issue of countering corruption, crime in customs and public security, and weapons. For the first time in the last 10 years, a meeting under my headship has defined, coordinated with law enforcement officials, measures to combat torture by law enforcement officials. As a result of the work, there has been a significant intensification of the investigation and a rapid increase in the number of criminal proceedings against the crimes of all the listed categories. Overall, the use of coordination measures has reduced the crime rate by 10,000: 86.4 versus 105.7 last year. There has been a marked decrease in the number of criminal offences that have been reported – 360 thousand against 444, including particularly severe – 13.2 thousand against 15.4 and severe – 125.2 thousand against 10.5. The number of criminal offences against property decreased by a quarter, mainly thefts from apartments to automobiles, robberies, robberies, frauds, and demands that every ordinary citizen’s attention is focused on, and each Ukrainian is in pain in the same way. The work of law enforcement officials in the detection of latent crimes has increased, especially the number of crimes found against the environment associated with the sale of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, as well as the acquisition and disposal of property through abuse of the service. Fully aware that society expects a reformed institution of real and effective results, I can assure you that we already have them. Every prosecutor daily, conscientiously carrying out his duties, promotes the rule of law, law, and order. And the result of this day - to - day work is our common achievements. Last year, nearly 2 million criminal prosecutions were investigated by law enforcement authorities under the prosecutor’s procedural direction. More than 119 thousand tours are sent to the court, five hundred each day. We have managed to properly coordinate and substantially activate the joint activities of all law enforcement agencies aimed at ensuring the principle of irreversibility of punishment. With the participation of prosecutors, 113.2 thousand criminal conducts have been considered by the courts — 4.5 hundred of them every day. In principle, more than 14,000 persons have been sentenced to actual deprivation or restriction of their will. Thus, prosecutors, together with judges, daily provide landings of more than half a hundred people. And I'll just give you one example. None of my predecessors in office have been able to put a dot and answer a social request to bring to justice the responsibility of all those involved in the insolent attack on public activist Catherine Gandzük. Despite the establishment and detention of five perpetrators of the crime, his clients and organizers managed to avoid responsibility for a long time. It was only in June of last year, as a result of the purposeful and accumulating work of prosecutors, that a decision was made to select a precautionary measure for the former head of the Herson District Council. On the basis of the evidence gathered in July, Manger and the assistant district councilman Levin charged with ordering and organizing the attack on Catherine Gandzük, and the indictment against them was brought to trial. In addition, on October 16, 20th, a former assistant national deputy to the Ukraine of Pavlovski was convicted of hiding this crime. Catherine Hanszük’s fight against illegal logging and the distribution of budget in Hersonland continued. In general, in the course of the investigation of the attack on those related to the crime, 18 persons were reported to be suspected, 9 criminal cases were referred to the court, 5 of which had already been tried by the courts. Manger and Levin are currently under trial, and we await a just verdict. A state of resistance to organized crime. The Office of the Attorney General has been responsible for the most significant detection of criminal groups in the last six years. That year alone, more than a quarter of the number of organized groups committed more than 3.5 thousand crimes were destroyed. In particular, work has been substantially activated and more than twice as many organized groups have used interregional and transnational connections. Thirty - three organized groups with corrupt connections were destroyed, half of them operating in authorities and administrations. What is significant is the achievements in the area of countering organized drug crime, detected by more than half the number of such crimes, eliminated by more than one and a half tons of drugs. The successful coordinated efforts of prosecutors that year have been blocked by the transit of record drug and psychotropic substances. Yes, four Turkish citizens were detained and reported to have been smuggled from Pakistan through the port of Rest to carry about 1 ton of heroin, worth more than 2.3 billion dollars in the black market. In line with the principled position of prosecutors, 234 members of criminal organizations have been convicted by the courts. A state of opposition by torture. In the democratic rule of law, there is definitely no place for law enforcement, so special attention has been given to prosecutors to respond to human rights violations. In 2020, there was a 13fold increase in the number of people suspected of exceeding power, as well as more than two times in the excess of the violent power. To overcome the problem of the impunity of torturers, a draft concept of public policy in this area has been developed. Resisting corruption. Under the current conditions, the opposition to corruption by criminal offences remains extremely relevant, and a year ago, the increased coordination role of prosecutors contributed to the increase in the number of criminal offences detected. Prosecutors are sent to the court daily for at least 11 cases of corruption offences, a total of 20 percent in a year and 3,000. At the same time, more than half of this is directed to the court for the acquisition and disposal of property through abuse of office — 2,000. Corruption has caused more than 2.7 billion dollars in damages and damages to nearly 90 percent of the damage. In principle, 620 corrupt people have been convicted by the courts. At the same time, the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office is the key to the State’s fight against corruption in the highest echelons of power, which is undoubtedly to be led by a truly independent and professional leader. I have high expectations that with the selection of the new SAP hostage, effective and effective resistance to top corruption will be ensured. In the budget area, there has been a fourfold increase in the amount of damage incurred: 3.1 billion dollars against 872 dollars in the past year, 430 million against 118, and 1.5 billion dollars against 348 million dollars in damages. Tax evasion schemes. As a result of the effective coordination of the Attorney General's Office, nearly 50 billion dollars last year has been increased from paying taxes to the budget -- 507 billion instead of the planned 458 billion. Due to the proper procedural direction of prosecutors, transit and conversion groups that formed a fictitious tax credit have been suspended. As a result, last year, 53 percent of GDP was increased by 40 billion dollars, 118 billion instead of the projected 78 billion dollars. All law enforcement agencies have been exposed to the formation of illegal tax credits for more than 3.5 billion dollars in shadow. And prosecutors, together with law enforcement officials, continue to fight daily effectively against illegal schemes of non-invention to the budget of the funds that our military personnel, doctors, teachers, pensioners now desperately need. We will continue our dedicated work on the effective investigation of crimes committed in connection with mass protests in 2013-2014, because the Maydan case is a matter of honour for us. The duty of law enforcement authorities and prosecutors to finally provide a comprehensive answer to society’s questions — who are involved in the tragic events of Maydan, killings, kidnappings, persecutions, abuses, and obstacles to peaceful protests. And we're working on it all the time. As a result, last year this work was substantially activated and the number of persons reported by the Attorney General’s Office tripled. Among them are 24 internal affairs officials, 3 prosecutors, 5 judges, and 10 civilians. The number of indictments filed against four dozen individuals has also increased threefold. Public charges in hundreds of Maydan trials have been filed for charges of some 200 persons. Among the prospects for this year is the completion of the trial in the first instance of the February 20, 2014, shootings of peaceful protestors on the Street of the Institute in the capital. I can also assure you that this year we will ensure the completion of investigations into major issues of Maidan so that everyone who has committed a crime will be punished justly. For the seventh year in a row, there has been an armed conflict in Ukraine. In order to protect Ukraine's interests against the actions of the aggressor country, prosecutors have taken a number of effective measures at both national and international level. In particular, direct communication has been established with the Office of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, which has received 15 reports of the involvement of representatives of the occupying administrations and armed forces of the Russian Federation of War Crimes. At the end of last year, we received the expected confirmation from the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, Fat Bensud, that there were actually war crimes in the occupied Crimea and Donbassy, and that was the jurisdiction of the Hague Tribunal, and that was what we had been waiting for for for more than five years. Last year, nearly 8 hundred criminal prosecutions were sent to the prosecution for crimes committed in situations of armed conflict. The courts have already sentenced 464 people. The Office of the Attorney General also focuses on the organization of the pretrial investigation of crimes of an inter-State nature. An example of an effective organization of this work is the world-wide case of a missile strike in a conflict zone over the occupied part of Ukraine's Malaysian Boeing MN17 and the death of 298 people. Since March 20th, the Hague court has held hearings regarding the four defendants involved in these tragic events. State representation in court. Prosecutors actively carried out the constitutional function of representing the interests of the state in court. Last year, nearly twice as many as 41.1 billion dollars were filed for protection. The courts are satisfied with lawsuits and willfully compensated by more than 23 billion dollars, nearly half the number. Exploitation of state and municipal property and property at prosecutors ’ request is warned for an additional 1.2 billion dollars. A 12 billion-dollar court decision has been implemented. Representative activities in the budget area and claims of 4.3 billion dollars, five times higher than in 2019, have been significantly intensified, with the result that 1 billion of them have been disrupted by the budget for the construction and repair of roads. In addition, with the aim of effectively defending the representation of the State's interests, the Attorney General's Office has made an entrance into two judicial disputes related to the Nationalization of Private Bank. So the Supreme Court overturned the decision of the courts of previous institutions to reimburse investors for the forced conversion of funds during the Nationalization of Private Bank totalling almost 30 billion dollars. The case is referred to the Court of First Instance, in which we will ensure that we do not allow the loss of state funds. In support of public charges in criminal proceedings and in the exercise of representative powers, prosecutors are now advocating the interests of the State in general for the sum of 167 billion dollars. Thanks to the concerted work of the Attorney General’s Office in international cooperation or foreign jurisdiction, a total of $519 million and 4 million have been arrested at the expense of former high-income workers and their environment. We are taking all possible steps to return the funds to Ukraine. So I can assure you that we do not stop at what has been accomplished and direct our daily activities to the self - sacrificing service of the Ukrainian people and Ukraine. Because our main task is to increase public confidence in the prosecutor's office. And I am grateful to everyone who rightly criticizes us, since, among other things, thanks to you, we are getting better. For my part, I promise that I will continue to take all possible measures to establish the rule of law, the rule of law and the rule of law, the protection of human rights and freedoms and the citizen, the interests of the state and society. Because it is up to each of us to be Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u5	Thank you, Irina Valentine's Day. Please sign up for questions from the Ukrainian national deputies. Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Dennis the Monastery.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u7	Denis Anatolyovich, will you ask me a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u8	I'll do the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u9	Žmerenecki Alexy Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u10	Dear Attorney General, thank you for the meaningful report. But I would like to clarify the secret to success. You've said some things about it, but it's not clear what's changed in the prosecutor's office. After all, most of the prosecutors stayed, meaning personal. Has the approach to managing these matters changed that the Attorney General does not block certain investigations or insists on certain investigations? Or perhaps some internal security mechanisms that force prosecutors to be more honest and unprofitable? Can you tell us exactly why the prosecutor's office started working harder than before?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u11	Thank you so much for asking. To answer that question, two minutes is not enough. Why did the prosecution work harder? There's 64 percent of prosecutors left, and for the DA's office it's a crazy redundancies, I want to tell you. Why such a sharp burst? Because everyone, including the Attorney General, wants to show that the law enforcement system can be effective and must be effective, it needs to work. So you see these things because we actually work 24 times 7. With regard to other questions of yours, I can actually speak in detail on a particular matter. There's no blocking. Suspects only arise when there are legitimate grounds. And then we can follow up every suspicion raised in the pretrial investigation and then in the trial. So, colleagues, let's stop being populists and stand in the positions of legality and the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u12	Please, National Deputy Ruššin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u13	Please give my word to Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u14	Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u15	That rare case where the Voice faction can commend the prosecution's work because they first announced a suspected MP for buttoning. And, Your Honor, Mrs. Henprocuror, I would like to inform you that on December 17th of last year, another criminal crime was committed in this room -- "the drug abuse" of the Minister of Education. And we know for certain that there was a fact of buttonsing, I recall, a criminal crime. And unfortunately, our request was not answered by the Department of State Security, which gave no evidence of the crime, and then they were erased 14 days later. I know you're already investigating the fact and attraction of the national MPs for this buttonage. I want you to add to the leadership of the Department of State Security, who have destroyed the evidence and actually become accomplices to this criminal case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u16	Thank you. I understand that this is not as much a question as my comment. Indeed, there are several statements of this fact. In fact, criminal conduct has been introduced into the Single Register of Investigative Investigations. In fact, there is a case-by-case investigation. When we get some results, you'll see that. You're once again, dear colleagues, you see that the trial process and then the trial in Ukraine is not fast. And that's because we have this kind of criminal trial code. You want our quick work, let's change the Criminal Procedural Code. And this is where we work. There'll be results, I'll report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u17	Please, National Deputy Honcharenko Alexiyyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u18	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Madam Attorney General, I have two more questions for you. First. When you finally execute the decision of the court of Shevchenkov and consider the question, and close the case against the direct channel? For a year and a half you can't do that, well, you're a year yourself. We've been to your place before, we've been talking, I've been to your place. You were told to study. It is time to close the case and put an end to the pressure on freedom of speech. By the way, today is the anniversary of the Maydan, when people died for freedom of speech and for democracy. And the second question. When will a man finally be released who sits next year? The second year is in Antonenko, a man who fought for Ukraine. And so far, it's not really being considered. The second year is in prison. When will you finally deal with the matter? When are you going to learn the Belarusian trail in this case? Because it's gone too far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u19	Thank you for such an emotional comment. Regarding the pressure on freedom of speech and the pressure on the channel, I want to tell you that I take it professionally. And taking into account all the pressure that's going on with the Attorney General and the factions coming to me loud before the start of yesterday's committee, and about, in fact, some political demands. Prosecutors are not politicians. And we make decisions when we think there's a reason. This is about your first question. About your second question about the Sheremet case. Yesterday there were actually representatives of the National Deputies, they came just as I was going to the committee, but they were given attention, and the head of the deputy spoke all these questions. When prosecutors refer the indictment to the court, they are determined in their position. The trial is now under way. Regarding the other episode you discussed, there is a trial. So now to make statements again that won't contain any logical procedural extension, I won't. I will make my statements only with my procedural documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u20	Please, National Deputy Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u21	Mrs. Irina, as to your answer to the direct channel, there was still a court decision that was important to execute. And my two questions. And that's what we had. We specifically asked when it would be done? And I have two questions. Did the fact that President Zelensky gave five Berkuts to the aggressor country two months before his sentence affect the investigation of the Maydan case? And this is Paul Abroskin, Oleg Janiewski, Sergey Zinchenko, and others who were accused of killing 48 Heroes of the Celestial 100, 80 people were injured. And what we know more is that the humanitarian process, unfortunately, didn't work, they weren't punished, and the hostage release process was blocked. And my second question. This is your position with Oleg Tatarov, deputy director of the President's Office, who is accused of corruption, and at least he wasn't even removed from office. I'm not saying that during Maidan he was a spokesman for the official IMF and all the power structures during the bloody events in Maidan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u22	Thank you for asking. I'll start with the third question, it will logically answer your first question, about your calls for a court decision. Tatar’s decision was taken by the court, which was the case, where the Attorney General’s Office was included in the appeal and in the case. The question of removing people who don't work at the Attorney General's Office is not a question for me. The issue of the execution of court decisions. I told you. The Berkut people's questions are a political issue. I don't give political evaluations. If you see something in criminal justice, criminal conduct, please, here's my area of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u23	Please, National Deputy Mamka Grigori Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u24	Please pass the word Rabbiovich Vadim Zinovovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u25	Rabbi Vadim Zinovovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u26	I have a brief question for the Attorney General, it concerns journalists, killed journalists, primarily Sheremet. The president said at a press conference that there's evidence that they're being investigated. When will the judgment take place? And I support, something has to be done with Busina's murder, because they intimidate right in court, intimidate both lawyers and radicals, intimidate people. How does the Attorney General react?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. I was expecting something like this before tomorrow's session, but thank you for coming back to the press. These are really two different examples, in principle, that happen in society. As far as the Sheremet case is concerned, she's in court. Prosecutors perform their constitutional functions, and they do so in such a way that they appear, they represent their position, they do not abuse their procedural rights in any way. This thing is in control. The Buzana case is the same thing as the control case, so is the court's case. You know you've chosen new jurors. You know that court hearings are moving because there was COVID and the trial participants were sick. But do prosecutors ensure their participation in the process? They're providing. So how do we react? Adequate performance of its constitutional functions. The rest is not dependent on the prosecution, there are still courts, there are still lawyers, and there is still a civil society that wants to influence this situation, and so is this situation. It's a normal Ukrainian environment and I think that's how we develop, in principle. Each should perform his or her functions effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u28	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Burmich Anatoly Petrovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u29	Please tell me, Your Honor, the Attorney General, that's the seventh anniversary we've been marking on Maidan. Please tell me, is there hope in society and that the Mayan murders will be investigated? Especially with regard to the first murders: Nigoyan, Ziznevsky? Because by signs, they were sacral victims. Do we have the hope that it will be true, and we will learn how it was and who killed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. It's not just hope. I've been working on this for a year, 20. I took up the duties of the D.B.I., and just about everything that involved Maydan's investigation, when the General's Office was handing over cases and the investigation was formed, that's what I was doing at the D.B.I. Now I've been doing this for a year at the Attorney General's Office. And we can report that three of us have raised the number of suspects, three times the number of people who have been transferred with the indictments to the court, the conduct, I'm sorry about 40 people. So it is not just hope, it is daily work. And we aim for ourselves: by the end of the 21st year, to complete the investigation into the main issues of Maidan. We're moving very actively here and that's our pride actually. In doing so, we go objectively. We're not taking sides with any certain, you know, influences on this side. Both the D.B.I. and the Office’s prosecutors do their work conscientiously and objectively here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u31	Please, National Deputy Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich, faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u32	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Madam Attorney-General, I would like to ask you, really, in agreement with you, that we should minimize the political component of the prosecution's activities, the simple questions about the penal rules and the act of public audit regarding the verification of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. I got to know very carefully, and I want to ask a simple question. What other facts, in addition to those cited in this Act, are needed to resolve once and for all the issues with leadership, with the criminal activity of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. 75 billion unpaid sums of 225 billion dollars of budgetary discipline have been lost by two reward courts, which he is obliged to pay (unlawfully received) the manipulation of buffer gas, the manipulation of financial reserves for billions of dollars. Ms. Attorney General, let's order the NAC National Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. I can't put order in a variety of companies. I can deal with criminal justice and law enforcement coordination. Regarding this company that you mentioned, including the act that you were talking about, we have several tours. The investigation is ongoing, these things are not unknown to us, they are also heard once every two weeks. Because once we get the concrete results, there'll be information on this on the Attorney General's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u34	Please, National Deputy Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u35	Mrs. Irina, good afternoon! First of all, I'd like to ask you about the freed prosecutors. I'll remind you, when this hall voted in favour of Ryabosapka's reforms a year and a half ago, we warned that there was a huge risk of mass prosecution in prosecution courts, and they're law specialists. Can you please tell me how many have been repeated? And how many updates do you expect, and what will you do with it? And the second question. Why don't you sign the "Privacy" issue, but you're assigning expertise that, as far as I know, neither the NABA nor the SAP agree with? Why is this being done? Maybe it's just better to go with suspicion and it'll be faster and more effective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u36	I am so grateful for these two questions. I'll start with the second because it's the key. What about the Privat case? I'm in the Privat case as a prosecutor on January 11, 2021. There is no subject in this process, no special subject of mine, I cannot block. The group was the previous of those prosecutors. By the new year, I had three joint meetings with NABU detectives and the SAP prosecutors, and we had a complete understanding of these matters. After the new year, when I left my vacation, the information from the NABU management was about blocking matters before I even got into these cases as a prosecutor. The investigation was activated, and instructions were given that ended February 12. On February 15, we had a joint meeting on Monday, and there is a complete understanding in this case. Expertise cannot be avoided. Because expertise is the same document that sets up the damage. Here, I'm sorry, there must still be a pattern of crime, so we're only moving by law. And I want to remind you that I did it directly, and even after that, the Supreme Court judges wrote me a complaint to the Supreme Council of Justice to save the state more than 28 billion dollars, and it's up to 30 dollars. And that was my direct victory in the spring of 2020. That's why I can't block the "Privacy" thing. As for the second question, yes, there's a problem, we're fighting it, we need the help of the Supreme Council Hall, because we need to set up the test filters, there's over 1.5 thousand lawsuits. The committee has our bill, which is how we can really destroy this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u37	Please, National Deputy Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich, Political faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u38	Please give me the word of Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u39	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u40	Thank you. Your Honour, Madam Attorney General! I have a question for you about what's the status on the Rotterdam Plus? We've seen, now it's happening, in my opinion, a disgraceful situation, it's closing down, it's reopening, it's closing again, and in fact, the citizens of Ukraine are still paying, and they're being put on the tariff for transporting coal from Rotterdam, which is mined at Donbassa, that's the first. And the second moment. Some of the previous colleagues have already spoken about it, but another scheme is "Düsseldorf Plus." Will criminal conduct on this fact be revealed? Because the gas from Poltava region is sold at a price plus transportation from Germany’s gas hub Dusseldorf. And it's also absurd to do that for foreign gas companies. Interested in the first and second conduct, what will be the situation, and when will this be completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. My colleagues, in fact, I am very grateful for these sharp questions that I can answer here in the Supreme Council Hall. With regard to the Rotterdam Plus case, the case is being investigated by NABU detectives. Director of Public Prosecutors of SAP. So I have a lot of respect for anti-corruption infrastructure, and I really respect their independence. And when there are terms of pretrial investigation either completed or one day left, sorry, colleagues, I think that this should be done directly by the new head of the SAP prosecutor's office, who can review the materials, review the procedural decisions of everyone and understand how to act properly and how to form the group correctly. Because the VACS court has twice answered the question of how much a group can or cannot be changed, and the WACS has determined that. So I don't want to influence in any way, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I want to be responsible for the sentences that the court can take in this case. It's only about anti-corruption infrastructure. I think so. As for your second question, I don't have any information at this time, if you think you need to open up a lead, I'm waiting for you to report a crime, we're opening it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u42	Krzemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u43	Dear Mrs. Irina, good afternoon! I can't agree with you that the "historic" reform of the Attorney General's Office took place in 2019, you can call it Ryabosapka or your last name, I don't agree with that. Why? Because the main reform and the main historical of the Attorney General’s Office took place here in the walls of this hall on October 14. And this bill has been approved by all of Europe and given us the opportunity to do so. I have two questions. First. With your reform, you eliminated the prosecutor’s self - control. Will it be reinstated, or will the Constitutional Commission work with discipline or not? That's the first question. And the second question. This question concerns the Council of Prosecutors. Please tell me when's the last time. You talked about six meetings, I know I used to work there, too, and six meetings I held in the south. So when was the last time the Board of Prosecutors sat down? If you don't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. That's very convenient, too. As far as the meeting you're talking about is concerned, it's a coordination meeting. What coordination work is in the law enforcement system, I'm sorry, for many and many years, prosecutors have generally forgotten what it is. And the coordination councils have a document that is then carried out by every law enforcement body -- Nacpol, BSB, DBD, etc., taking into account what the coordination board was referring to. So do not confuse the counsel every day. This is a serious preparation for the meeting and a concrete implementation of this meeting, from 3 months to a year. So, colleagues, that's quite different. What about self - government? I am equally grateful for your questions. Let's go back. And once again, there's a bill on the committee. Since September 1st, we've had the work of the Transitions that have been blocked. And it's very important for us that the self-government agencies of the D.A. begin to work properly. This also applies to the U.S. Attorneys' Conference, which refers to the formation of the Prosecutors' Council, which applies to our Qualifcomy. Because without a normal efficient, fast job, we're not going to be able to fill up, we're going to have a 30 percent shortage of personnel right now, we're not going to be able to actively engage prosecutors who were unethical, unprofessional, and so on. Look closely at the report, it's in you and SEDO, we've sent it, it's clearly indicated the activity of the General Inspectorate, and it's clearly indicated all the steps involved in attracting prosecutors to disciplinary responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u45	At least I'm sorry, time's up. The time for the show is up. Please sit down, Irina Valentinovna. [[Applause]] The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Affairs, Denis Anatoliyovich Monastirski, is invited to attend. Rules up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u46	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday, February 17, the Committee on Law Enforcement reviewed the report of the Attorney General at its meeting. I can say that this is thanks to our decision with you to increase parliamentary control today we also see the Attorney General's personal report. That is why we can testify to the effectiveness of parliamentary control, which has clearly increased in the last year. I want to remind you that this personal report of the Attorney General last year was in 2017. This is due, including, to the fact that the previous prosecutors were unable to report at that time and failed halfway. So, colleagues, our decision is coming true, and it's nice to talk. The next report, and the Attorney General here gives an example to other law enforcement agencies, who also have to report to the Supreme Council, next, I think the representative of the State Bureau of Investigation is going to be the first and for the state of crime today, and on the issue of reform is personally responsible to the Attorney General. I would like to remind you that almost a year ago, on March 17th, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, the Attorney General became the woman Irina Vendiktova. It began its course in this high office at an extremely difficult time -- the time of the pandemic, the bowdown and, of course, the difficult ongoing reform that had begun six months earlier. This reform is ongoing now. I'm glad that we can talk today about the completion of one of the reform stages, namely, the staffing of the prosecutor's office, which has involved more than 11,000 prosecutors, who have successfully passed and remain in office for more than 7,000 prosecutors today. Today, the Attorney General’s Office, the district attorney’s office, is updated, and we expect district attorneys to start their work within the next month. And here, of course, I'd like to pay attention to both the Attorney General and the colleagues at the hall, and all the law enforcement agencies, so that there's clear agreement between the new departments of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, the court and other law enforcement agencies, according to a new map of the administrative areas that we've approved last year. It's very important for citizens to feel the opportunity and the availability and the investigation and the knowledge and, in fact, the prosecution and the court, which is very important. What can be said about the prosecutor’s work in the past year, since this is a report. First. Of course, it is gratifying to note that active work against corruption, I hope that the number of indictments that have been brought to trial will coincide with the number of convictions. Because this is a test not only for the law enforcement system but also for the judicial system, which, unfortunately, is not better today. And I agree with you, Mrs. Attorney General, that the great hope in this matter is for the new head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, which must be chosen and clear and independent of any influence. We have also noted the important role of the prosecutor’s office in resisting fiscal delinquency. According to your report, in the past year, taxes to the budget have increased by almost 50 billion dollars, and this is due to proper resistance to key tax avoidance schemes. But we all realize that this is just the beginning and basic schemes and their overcoming are the responsibility of law enforcement agencies. Everything that is required of the relevant professional committees, such as taxes, customs, is done or is being done at the moment. My colleagues, I also want to celebrate the important role and start work to protect the investments that are coming to Ukraine. A special unit was created at the Attorney General's Office. I also think that this is just the beginning, but it should definitely help improve the business climate in Ukraine and help invest in Ukraine. And in this context, I also want to point out the effective work of the special commission that we have with you in protecting investors. It is also obvious that action has been taken to create an objective view in society of the activities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office and to increase the level of confidence in the institution. Because, of course, trust is the basis on which we are with you, society can trust more powers of any law enforcement authority. Only first is to increase trust and further increase the power of attorney. At the same time, there is much to say to improve the work of the prosecutor’s office. First of all, I want to say that as a result, and today this has been mentioned, reforms are more than 1.5 thousand counts of illegal release. And so far, there are about 300 court decisions for work renewal. Of course, this is also the problem with Law 113 of the so-called Law, which you and I have approved in this room, and the practice of implementing the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office, including. I would like to point out that especially in these days, the days of the memorable anniversary of the Maydan shooting have to be repeated. Yes, it is good that they began to investigate more intensively. But we demand, like all societies, the completion of a trial on Midan’s affairs. Whatever it takes, the Supreme Council will or will do in the near future. And here I'm talking about a special trial procedure that we supported in the first reading literally yesterday. It should be a priority for prosecutors to combat crimes committed by organized criminal groups. Of course, this is the biggest problem that affects the entire criminogenic situation in the country. Crimes committed and crimes committed in the military, defence, environmental protection that affect the entire population of the country, the fight against cybercrime, and domestic violence are important. These are the key topics that citizens are addressing most today. My point is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has doubled its number of appeals, particularly to our committee with complaints about the actions of law enforcement agencies, including prosecutors. And so I ask you to pay particular attention to working with citizens, to communicating with them, and to working with them clearly within the limits defined by law and criminal law. I would like to point out that we have high expectations and expectations for the Attorney General. First of all, what my colleague, Andry Kožemiakin, said, is what we hope and expect this year to reinstate the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office: it is important. We expect that the personnel reboot that has taken place will enable prosecutors to work effectively, and that the new personnel will be updated only on a professional basis, as well as on the principle of integrity. Finally, we look forward to all the conduct related to the crimes committed during the Dignity Revolution. We expect a further reduction in the level of crime in the state, especially with regard to serious and particularly serious crimes, as well as petty so-called crimes, to which the law enforcement authorities may be paying less attention, but they get the most out of people's eyes. That's what their city, their house, their streets. Special attention should be paid, especially to the number of latent crimes in this area. We endorse and expect the concept of the development of the rule of law as the organs of justice that must be developed and approved, and we must continue to reform the organs of justice. And also, I've already mentioned this and once again, I want to say what needs to be agreed upon and reform and create new departments for the prosecution, the court and the police so that the citizens and the whole mechanism can work, and the citizens feel that this system really works effectively. Thank you for your attention. The Committee took a decision, according to the Rules, which recommended that the Supreme Council take a report from the Attorney-General to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u47	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, we are now under the Rules of Discussion by factions and groups, so please sign up for three minutes from each faction and group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u48	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u49	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u50	The railroad? Dear colleagues, will no one be speaking from Voice? Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u51	Good afternoon! May I have the word of the Lord from the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u52	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u53	Good afternoon, colleagues! Good afternoon, Attorney General! Sergey the Great, Lugansk. I want to say it's painful because of the work of the Interim Investigation Commission on the facts of the Lugansk fires. It has already become known to everyone, because of the inaction of officials of the military and civilian administration, these fires have occurred twice and people have died. Sadly, however, law enforcement authorities do not move to test these circumstances. Madam Attorney General, please provide support to the District Attorney's Office, which is the only State Bureau of Investigation that has the capacity to work in this direction. Secondly, the issue of inaction with regard to the investigation of the crime against four Ukrainian national deputies, namely the obstruction in Lugansk of parliamentary activity. This crime has been under investigation for almost a year. The decision is not taken. Thirdly, as regards the repeated appeals by Luganskya Shahova, Sukhova, Lukasheva, Tkachenka, Gorbenko on the facts of corruption, official abuse, theft by officials of the military and civilian administration in Luhansk. Is it necessary to create a temporary commission of inquiry to verify the abuses of the Great Building? Is it possible to investigate these abuses and these crimes at last? According to the National MPs, more than a hundred criminal conducts have been violated, which have not been investigated at this time. What's important is the murder of Sergey Samarski. For four years this conduct has not been investigated. How long from the rostrum does Sergio Shahov need to remind himself of the uninvestigated crimes committed by Governor Hayday? I ask you, Madam Attorney General, to take over the investigation of all the relevant facts. Thank you. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u54	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u55	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear Irina Valentino, thank you for your report. I would ask you that our communication with Parliament be permanent, not just when we have such meetings as are provided for by law. In fact, remember when we appointed you, I told you that this was not the Attorney General’s chair, which is actually an electric chair. That's what happened. We realize that it is very difficult that a system that has been shaped for decades is very difficult to reform and change. We see positive steps, clearly, we see positive changes, they're still points. We understand that you have a lot to do in manual mode. But we would like all of us as Ukrainian citizens, of course, all the deputies and you, to have those who have stolen the last years who have actually done the destruction of our statehood be held accountable. And the fact that spring will come after all. The spring will come, I'm sure. And let's work together to do everything we can. Because if you're missing something, if you need to adopt some kind of law to investigate the Midan case, so that we can stop raiding, to investigate the absolute majority of cases, let's create a working group that will be joined by all deputies from all political factions, and in a public position, we'll get out and adopt the necessary laws if you're in trouble. Most importantly, it's a social request, after peace, it's justice. That's why I wanted this justice to happen, because I have all the time, for example (I ask you to write it down, write it down), a society with limited responsibility, "New Perspectives," that's in the Plains region. Since 2014, they've been fighting to get their property back, which they took illegally, just to get rid of by the raiders. And when we go to the Attorney General's Office, the Attorney General sends this to the Attorney General's Office and she writes a letter saying, "All right, we're investigating." Since 2014. Because that and justice are the equality and speed of the solution. So clearly, we're continuing to work, we're continuing to reform with you in the prosecution's office. We're counting on your quick response to all our MPs. And we're counting on all Ukrainian citizens to feel that there is justice in Ukraine, and it's not just words that are written in the Constitution about what the rule of law is, and it really is. And let's make this happen, and let's be shameless for our work and for the Attorney General we're assigning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u56	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u57	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u58	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor, the Attorney General! In fact, a year’s work report was heard today. This is the first such presentation of work in history. But after all, I think you have it in mind, and I'm going to try to make it sound and say thank you, national deputies, for adopting the amendments to the Procurator's Act. But with these changes to the Procurator's Act, which was called reform, you stopped selecting and filling vacancies in the Attorney General's Office. I don't understand how it was possible to write and vote in the law, it was up to you, that a person could file documents when he was two years of legal experience, and which, where he was working, it was unknown, was not specified in the law, but that would block the number of co-workers in the prosecution's office. The stress that occurs each year does not diminish. In some places registration rates are declining, in some cases in terms of the severity of the crimes, in some cases incurring damages, some have been caught up in the conduct, but the physical number of employees should be 100 percent. Why am I conceptually and in principle taking a stand with the Attorney General's Office? According to the law, it is said that the investigator, the prosecutor, is independent. But in my opinion, the self-independence of the investigator, it just doesn't exist, it's defined in two ways. The first aspect is to make your own decisions. For the time being, the law makes a decision by consenting with the prosecutor or prosecutor. That's the law. Why I'm saying that the prosecutor himself, his very procedural function of procedural leadership, is fundamental. At present, it is about 40 percent of the totality of the prosecutor’s office. Members need to be told about things that need to be changed in law and allow young people to file documents and participate in a job competition. And when there's 100 percent of the staff of the Attorney General's Office, of the local prosecutors, and of those who have a function under the law -- procedural guidance -- then you can give real indicators and results for them. In my opinion, there is a need to make more changes to legislation in order to get the Attorney General's office fully operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u60	Thank you. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u61	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs, the presidency, the Honourable Attorney General! The "For the Future" MP group generally celebrates the positive. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time, we have the Attorney-General showing a positive example when he reports to the Parliament that appointed him in his year of work. To be honest, I listened very carefully to your report. I would like all the national MPs to listen as carefully as they do in the hall. Because we've seen the Attorney General's respect for Parliament, he's reporting, and the respect for Parliament, excuse me, let's also show examples. The Deputies' Group "For the Future" consists solely of majors, we all note the positive changes that are taking place and, in fact, the level of communication of prosecutors has become better and higher. And it's not just the national MPs, it's our voters, it's all been said that it's gotten a lot easier to go to the district attorney's office, the district attorney's office. And we think that's also a positive example. In addition, there is much greater confidence in the community of prosecutors, and we want this practice to go on. Also, as the head of the profile committee, Mrs. Irina, who is responsible for the temporarily occupied territories, for the A.R. Crimea, I would like to thank separately for the prosecutors involved in Crimea, who are engaged in the occupied territory of Donetsk and Lugansk. At the same time, there are problems, and we want your Office to have legislative changes that will help you investigate, as soon as possible, the crimes that have taken place in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and in the occupied area of Donetské, Lugansk. We also receive numerous petitions from citizens who have either been punished, or from the occupation of Donetské, Luhansk district, where legal proceedings have begun regarding their guilt. Regrettably, all the materials remained in occupied territory and, in fact, for 7 years, people were in status, in procedural status, or accused, and did not understand how these investigations could be completed. There's also one problem for the Donetsk and Lugansk region: it's not a court-expert facility for the Donetsk and Lugansk region, and it's taking time to investigate, which also has a negative impact. In general, the "Trust" MP group, the "For the Future" MP group, has a positive and trusted group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u62	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u63	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, we've heard the Attorney General's report, but we haven't heard from him yet, but where are the high-ranking crews who sat for this year, where are the billions returned from the "great theft" or from customs, or from other corrupt nuns today? That's what we wanted to hear from you, because that's the real report. You know, we asked you this question, I'd like to take your attention again. You are a defender of the law in Ukraine, and we demand that you comply with the ruling of the court and stop persecuting freedom of speech in the form of persecution of the "Primary" TV channel. We're asking you, at last, to kill tens of Ukrainians at least seven years ago, on this frosty morning, on the same freezing morning, to take responsibility for it. And when you release the Berkuts two months before the sentence, it means that justice will not come, and those who are to be punished will not be punished. And we're all looking forward to it: both society and the whole country and the whole state. You know, you call yourself an eye of the state. I want to tell you that this is an interesting comparison. As a matter of fact, Femida, a goddess, must be blindfolded. But, you know, if you want to be "an eye of the state," I want to remind you that you don't see a log in the eyes of the government, when you see a piece in the eye of the opposition -- that's a big problem, you know. When there are huge logs like Mr. Tatarov, Mr. Jermak, and you don't see them, that's a big problem. And then the question is, what's going on with the eye? And I think you should look here. I want to tell you, today we have February 18th, until spring 10 days left. And I want to and I ask you to become the real Attorney General of Ukraine, the real advocate of the law and the rule of law. And if so, then there will be no such thing as a member of the People's Service sitting in the session room right now, as Zelensky said in September that he would be sitting in prison, and he's sitting here in the hall, and he's meeting with the prosecutor not in the courtroom, but he's meeting while listening to your report. I want to tell you that if spring really comes, the Greens environment needs to be prepared: Jermak, Tatarov, all the other deputies from the People's Servants who are here today engaged in corruption are preparing to land. And then society will say, "You're the real Attorney General!" We're waiting for that, and I hope that your next report will begin with these words: "We're fighting corruption here and now, and we're not telling you any stories." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u64	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Krzemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u65	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear Mrs. Irina, I want to repeat once again what I said when I asked the question. I think you'll agree with me that the reform is historic, once again without quotes, it did not change the Procurator's Act in 2019, and to whom it was convenient -- it was still unknown, but on October 10, 2014. By the way, for five years we've been working in this Parliament with international experts, and including your training facility at the time, you've also helped us work on this reform for the prosecution. We have received the approval of the Venice Commission, the European Union. And what we've undertaken since 1996, in the 14th year, in the end, although it was very difficult, believe me, even with the post-majance power that was in the 14th year, to do so. What has now taken place in the wake of the so - called changes of 2019. Once again, I'm very sorry that this prosecution's self-governance, a dispossessed disciplinary commission, is almost destroyed today, which should be involved in the selection of personnel that should be subject to disciplinary advice by some, if you'll excuse me, or by some other prosecutor. That's the first one. The other one. Today we have, unfortunately, a return to all that we did in 2014 in the duties of the Attorney General, which Europe has been very much warning and unwilling to accept, to return to the same functions. Today, these changes are meant to be true. Today, the Attorney General, unfortunately, he's setting up a human resources commission, he's disposing of them himself, he's ordering himself, he's taking, he's taking, he's taking, he's doing everything himself. So what we didn't want and we were told is wrong, it came back again. So I think that the return, as you said today, we're going to expect it to happen. I mean, we wanted to hear it in your report, and unfortunately we didn't hear it. First. Yes, the crime rate is dropping and that's good. But earlier, when we saw the performances in this room, it wasn't the first report, they were still in this room. We haven't seen the information in the regions, it's not there. I mean, it's not at all, and in the regions, it's not. And unfortunately, we haven't heard, not to mention the pressure on prosecutors, investigators -- what Mr. Mamka said and all that. But what I'd like to say is that today, well, not yours was in the 19th year there, let's say, the guilt of these changes. But the fact that you're not on the TV show today and you're not talking about things that aren't already in place is a good thing, it's a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for the speech is over, the time for the Attorney General's report is as good as the Attorney General's Office's report. I would like to thank you, Irina Valentine's Day, for today's report in Parliament and for your work. Thank you. Good luck! Dear colleagues, there's been a statement about a real break. But there's an offer. Look, we're gonna have a real break without a ten-twelve. There's an offer to start and a break that should start at 12, a little earlier, and get back to work at 12:20. Is there no objection? None. A break is being announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, back to our work. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 85, 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, are appointed to serve as a third of the composition of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. On 3 June 2020, the Committee on Legal Policy, on the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, on the basis of a competition launched in January 2020, recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide by way of a vote on the appointment of a Constitutional Court judge on the four candidates submitted by the MPs. In accordance with the requirements of Article 208, pr. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, recommendations of the Committee, information on the results of the special examination and other documents submitted by candidates for the post of Constitutional Court judge, were given to you. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provide for the next order of action. The report from the profile committee is up to 3 minutes. The candidate for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, if he so wishes, has the right to speak within 2 minutes and 6 minutes to answer the questions of Ukrainian national deputies, 1 minute to ask, 2 minutes to answer, that is, 32 minutes. Talks from MPs and groups for up to 21 minutes, three minutes for each faction and group, and statements from Ukrainian national deputies for up to 6 minutes. The general time of this question is 1 hour 5 minutes, and then the decision is taken. I suggest we move on to this issue. The deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Legal Policy of Christmas is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! According to article 85, paragraph 26, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to appoint a third of the composition of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Today, one position of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is vacant, for which the Supreme Council of Ukraine is appointed. According to the provisions of the second part of the first part of article 12 of the Constitutional Court Act, the preparation of the question of the examination of candidates for the post of a Constitutional Court judge in the Supreme Council is carried out by a committee, the subject of which is the question of the legal status of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In the order established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, taking into account the provisions of this article, the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy (since 15 January 2020) decided to announce the launch of a competition for the selection of candidates for vacant office of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and the initiation of proposals for parliamentary factions and groups for candidates for the seat of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The committee was provided with material on Kichun Viktor Ivanovich (the submitting party's "Slut of the People's Party"), Pavelanska Jurija Alexiyovich (the submitting party's faction "The Opposition Platform for Life"), Bodnar-Petrovska Olga Borisivna (the submitting party's political faction "The Fathers Association"), Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich (the submitting party's political faction "The Voice"). In accordance with the decision of the Committee on Legal Policy of 3 March 2020, it is recognized that they meet the requirements established by the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of Kichuna, Pavlenko, Bodnar-Petrovski, Sidorovich, and submitted to the Supreme Council the documents of the persons designated for the organization of special examinations. In accordance with article 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 12 of the Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, part six of article 208 with the symbol 4 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Law of the Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting on 3 June 2020, on the basis of the examination of documents and information submitted by candidates for the office of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and their co-examination, decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be decided by way of a vote on the appointment of Mr. Viktor Ivanovich, Ms. Jury Aleksijovich, Mr. Bodnar-Petrovski Olga Borisivna, Mr. Sidorovič Ruslan Mihajlovich as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. By adding recommendations, test results, and other documents, please consider. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u69	Thank you, Valery Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Kichunu Viktor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u70	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Honorable National Deputies, Your Honorable Attending! I'll tell you a little bit about myself. Kichuan Viktor Ivanovich, I have been working on constitutional law for the 27th year: first an assistant, then an assistant, now a professor of constitutional law at the Ukrainian National Law University of Ukraine, Jaroslav Wise. From the very beginning, I would like to thank the factions of the "Serial of the People" for having entrusted me with the opportunity to claim the office of Judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much. Regardless of the outcome of today's vote, I thank you for giving me this chance. A few words about why I would like to embrace this position. I would like to embrace this position in order to uphold the constitutional values contained in the Constitution that unite us all, the entire Ukrainian people. These are the values of parliamentaryism, democracy, the peoples of government, the rule of law, a fair impartial court, a change of power. At the same time, I want to point out that I am a supporter of liberal democracy. According to the history of development, it was the countries where liberal democracy existed that ensured social progress. And for today, I can say that virtually all the prosperous countries have a liberal democratic regime. At the same time, I understand what a difficult situation the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is today. Because at the very least, if you choose me, and of course trust me, you will have one proponent of deterring the Constitutional Court. I think we've created an over-court superinstitution that actually dominates our country today, and can actually cross anything out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u71	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, as we have discussed with you about the Rules, now, if necessary, the national MPs can ask questions to the candidate. It takes up to six minutes, so I'm asking you to sign up for a question. The word is given to the National Deputy Veliczovich Mikoli Romanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u72	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u73	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u74	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! I have a very simple question. We have repeatedly been told by the faction that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is an institution that should really be on the watch for the rule of law in Ukraine by the authorities of the state. And as you know, we have passed a separate bill that deals with competitions and improvements in the recruitment system for the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And it's the involvement of international experts, just like it was done in the VACS. Please tell me, do you support this idea of involving international experts in organizing the competition? And do you consider this to be true during the election of judges to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u75	Thank you for asking. I fully agree with that offer. But I want to say, honourable national MPs, you've all had time, including European Solidarity, in order to initiate this bill, so that we don't speak for the bill, but for the law. But it was time to make this competition with the participation of international experts. By the way, I support your offer. But today the Supreme Council of Ukraine judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is being elected in accordance with the procedures provided for by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, which is why I do not see a violation of the current legislation of Ukraine. And you can hear the offer, to my deep conviction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u76	The word is given to the national deputy of Burmitch Anatoly Petrovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u77	Your Honor, you said recently that we created the Constitutional Court with powers. You can see that there are great powers, even though everyone understands, and we know that the Constitutional Court is created and must work to determine compliance with the Constitution of Ukrainian laws or presidential decrees and so forth. In what specific way do you see overriding and abuse in today’s Constitutional Court? Please specify.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u78	Thank you for asking. Look, from the point of view of abuse, I wasn't talking about it, and for abuse, I don't have the information to get you to know it. With regard to my deep subjective conviction, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine today is a superinstitution. In fact, all decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine are final and binding. And actually the acceptance of the wrong one. All judges are people, they have the right to make mistakes. The corresponding error of any decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine may be too costly for the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian state. Because when we speak even for the ideal restraint and the opposite, the system must be deterrence and adversarial. In the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, I don't see a system of restraint and opposition. I see a system of deterrence and opposition with regard to the legislative authority, with regard to the executive, with regard to the judiciary. But the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, why I called it an institution, because it's over all institutions. Because of this, I have expressed my position and my point of view with regard to the powers of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u79	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni. Please, Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u80	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u81	Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u82	Mr. candidate, the first questionable decision of today's Constitutional Court was the decision by Greensky to dissolve the previous parliament, based on the seemingly low rating and popularity of the previous parliament. I would like to remind you that just now the ratings of today's Parliament and of President Greene have fallen below the plentou. Does this mean that today’s Supreme Council needs to be dissolved? And if such an application is made, will you support it? The second question. The resolution of the European Parliament made it very clear that the Constitutional Court should be updated on new grounds for forming a special commission with international experts that would take account of the integrity of judges. So why are you running for office without taking into account the position of our European partners? And the third. I want to remind you that the judges, and especially the Constitutional Court, these are the political positions, they're going to be out of politics. So your answer to our colleagues ’ previous question is unacceptable because it was subjective to your attitude.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u83	Thank you for asking. As to my attitude towards President Zelensky's decree regarding the dissolution of Parliament. I think that a legal evaluation of this decree has already been carried out by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and accordingly I cannot review this decision. At the same time, I do not have full information on the validity or unjustification of this position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Next. As to whether there are grounds for the dissolution of Parliament today? The grounds for the dissolution of Parliament are provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. Lowering or increasing confidence in a political party, including a parliamentary party, cannot be the basis for the announcement of the early elections of the Ukrainian Parliament, first. Secondly, I'd like to be more objective than you, I understand your objectivity. But for today, I wouldn't say that if we said, "Serves of the People," that he's a lower plentuse, then other political parties, they're even lower plentuses, lower "Serves of the People." Because I wouldn't be saying that right now, I wouldn't be evaluating whether it's lower or higher. The Ukrainian people give an assessment of the activities of the political parties. Regarding the recommendations of European institutions. I have already expressed my position on this when I pointed out that I do not mind having relevant international experts in the selection of the judges of the Constitutional Court. And I'm willing to do these tests. I have nothing to fear from such tests. But at the same time, I have already talked about the fact that I am now choosing what is in force in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u84	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. We're done. Please take your place. Ladies and gentlemen, the word is given to the candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Yuri Alexiyovich Pavlenko. Also, after you've spoken to me for up to six minutes, I'll ask you a question. Please, Yuri Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u85	Honourable Chairman, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! The recent history of Ukraine clearly shows us that the policy of disrespect for the Constitution of Ukraine, the restriction and violation of human rights and freedoms, the policy of violence, coercion, suppression and violation of the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the violation of freedom of speech and thought does not solve, but rather deepens social, social problems. Refusal of dialogue, intolerance, and hatred can turn the country into a ruin. The Constitutional Court is undoubtedly the most important body in the system of state authority, based on the rule of law, which is why it stands both over the court and over the executive, and over the legislature. The most fundamental part of his work is the protection of human rights and freedoms. My previous experience of work, acquired skills and knowledge will enable me to make my own tangible contribution to building confidence in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to improve the practice of the court by bringing it closer to the position of the European Court of Human Rights, to ensuring the effectiveness of human rights protection in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people of Ukraine, for me, the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court is more than mere personal ambitions. This is about affirming in Ukraine a triad of European values: democracy, human rights, the rule of law. Regardless of the outcome of today’s vote, I will continue to respect the Basic Law, upholding and securing human and civil rights as the primary duty of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u86	Please sign up for the interview. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u87	Mr. Chairman, please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u88	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear Mr. Yuri, you know, I think I'll repeat the last question. In fact, the previous Parliament was disbanded according to President Zelenski's archaeological decree, not referring to the constitutional rules on the absence of the majority and the absence of 30 days of parliamentary work, but only because of Zelenski's lack of love for the previous Parliament and low rating. Today’s Parliament is even less popular in society. So if the Constitutional Court comes up with such an order, will you vote for your discharge? And just like the previous speaker, he allowed himself, you know, such political evaluations to parties, to MPs from the opposition that question him, although the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Judges should be as apolitical as possible. Do you think that people who have such sympathy for one political power or another can give up their politics and their ideology, that is also true of you, and demonstrate apoliticalism?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Irina, for your question. In my opinion, every body of state authority, including the Constitutional Court and the judges of the Constitutional Court, must act within and in the manner defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. And in this case, I don't want to present my subjective opinion right now, because I'm still Ukraine's national deputy. With your support for my candidacy for the Constitutional Court, I, along with the composition and judges of the Constitutional Court, will, after a comprehensive study of the relevant decree, issue a decision in accordance with the Constitutional Court Act. The law, in particular, does not provide for publication, for the decision of the Constitutional Court, for its own personal opinion. I hope that my experience as in power and opposition in various positions of law-enforcement will allow me to be as far away from all political forces as possible and to adopt decisions in accordance with the Constitution in the interests of Ukrainian citizens, regardless of their particular political affiliation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u91	Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u92	Dear Chairman, please give the word of Natalia to the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u93	Not sensitive, to whom? Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u94	Dear Yuri Alexiovich! All your conscious life, you protect your children. And today almost every foster family knows how much you have done in our country to ensure that every child who finds himself in difficult family circumstances knows that there is a person who always remembers and always does everything in your power to help. But unfortunately, you and I also know that most of the children who are now children of the 21st century who live in Donbassa still feel vulnerable. Although your active position has led to the adoption of the law and the adoption of a decision, it does not provide reliable constitutional protection for children. Please tell me, will you really stand up, I believe, for their rights and in the Constitutional Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u95	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna, for your question. In fact, I had the opportunity and privilege to serve as a minister of the family, young people, and sports, the Authorized Child’s Rights. And along with the team I led, we were able to reform the care and care system in a country that was recognized by international experts as one of the best reforms in post-socialist countries, in terms of child rights, child orphans, a child without parental care for the family. And we were able to make a radical change in the situation in the country when mass childlessness and, in fact, every child was given a chance to be brought up in the family. Sadly, many of those beginnings have been suspended today. And I hope that in the framework, and the next issue of the agenda is the creation of an appropriate interim commission of inquiry on the examination of deinstitutionalization and the State's actions to protect orphans, children deprived of parental care, we can verify all actions and restore the child's right to parental care, and restore the child's right to have a father and a mother. And as for my position as a possible judge of the Constitutional Court. I believe that the element of human rights protection should become the most fundamental, most important in the work of the Constitutional Court, especially in the framework of the constitutional reform of 16th year, a new form of work has emerged as a constitutional complaint that opens up very serious possibilities for the Constitutional Court as a human rights protection body in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u96	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Jurczyn Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u98	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u99	Mr. Yuri, please answer three questions. First question. Please tell me, how did you get over 15 years of vocational training when in the 14th year, if I'm not mistaken, or maybe in the 13th year, you just graduated from law school? The other one. How can you, as a member of the Supreme Council and coauthor of many petitions to the Constitutional Court, display political non-involvement? And the third. How do you understand the rule of law? Because it is not the constitutionality of the article on lying in a declaration, especially your coauthorship on liquidation, that refers to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u100	Thank you, Your Honor, for your question. As far as the job is concerned, my papers and my application, and the corresponding work in accordance with the law, are in line with the requirements of the competition, and this has been verified. In fact, I had already received a legal education in the 14th year, along with legislation predicting that I could do professional work both as a national deputy and as a minister, and as an authorized child with no legal obligation to have a legal education. Therefore, there was a separate discussion on the profile committee, and the committee, in accordance with the law, adopted the decision and recommended my candidacy for consideration. As for my impartiality. I can be as open-minded as possible, including those constitutional submissions that I have signed as Ukraine’s national deputy. My activity has always been to make respect for the Basic Law and to prevent violations of the Constitution in any legislative act impossible. If I'm chosen and the corresponding submission is considered, it's obviously going to be a conflict of interest. And so I will not participate in the voting and decision-making of the constitutional application, as provided by law. I'm sorry, but it's very noisy. I did not hear a third question, but I will gladly give him a complete and solid answer in our work. Thank you, Your Honor, for the opportunity to present my candidacy, and I hope we can restore confidence in it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u101	Thank you. The candidate for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Bodnar-Petrovska Olga Borisovna is invited to the floor. The procedure is the same: 2 minutes for the performance, then 6 minutes for questions from Ukrainian national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u102	The noble Ukrainian people, the honorable Presidium, the national deputies, and those present! I have the honour of being on this high court and representing myself as a candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court. This high institution has all the necessary tools to protect human and civil constitutional rights and freedoms. I'm a lawyer with my second education. The position of the judge of the Constitutional Court is considered a professional summit. She chose the National Academy of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to complete her studies with a degree in marks. Repeatedly, I participated in scientific conferences that studied the experience of the constitutional courts of other nations. The experience and skills gained during the course of the training have been enhanced by practical work in the Supreme Council, where all the staff in the Apparatus have gone through — from the Assistant People's Deputy to the Head of the Secretariat of the Deputy faction and have been thoroughly experienced in the work of analytic and practical materials in the field of lawmaking. As a national deputy of two vocations, in particular as the first deputy head of the Committee on State Building, local self-government, my mandate included the analysis of draft bills registered in Parliament for their constitutionality. This service status has opened up opportunities to study the activities of other countries’ institutions. I am proud that in her own time she entered the 50 most productive national deputies in Ukraine. For my candidate’s dissertation, I chose a candidate subject related to constitutional law. Obedience, productivity, professionalism, responsibility, legality is one of my professional principles. In my capacity as judge of the Constitutional Court, understanding the weight and responsibility of the State to the Constitutional Court, I commit myself to the principle of the rule of law, to the fullest use of my knowledge and power in the interests of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u103	Thank you. Please sign up for the interview. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u104	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Mrs. Olu, I know you as a real lawyer and at the National Academy of Internal Affairs, I know you at work in the Supreme Council. I have a question for you. I'm really going to support your candidacy, because I think you're a worthy person to be with your own experience as Judge of the Constitutional Court. But I have a question for you. If you are elected a judge of the Constitutional Court and the judges of this court offer you the office of Head, are you prepared to lead and become Head of the Constitutional Court? Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u105	Thank you so much for asking. It's very unexpected for me. It is a great honor to lead the Constitutional Court, so I think that only the person who deserves the great trust of the highly respected organ can ask. If they trust me, I will be proud to bear this responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u106	Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u107	Sergey’s Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u108	Again, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u109	Ask for the word of Eutusek Sergius.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u110	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u111	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Olga Borisovna, I'm addressing you because I don't know you for a year, I know you for a decade, and I know what you've been doing all this time. In your time, of course, you've written laws, now you're also working on draft legislation that you analyze and give a clear, reasoned expert assessment of one or the other document that is being submitted or voted in the hall. But the question is very simple for you. Not long ago, we saw an attack on the Constitutional Court and its judges. Are you prepared morally, in view of what is really happening, because there are protests under the courts and, in particular, under the Constitutional Court, to hold this position in view of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine? And will this be seen in your family as normal behavior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Sergei. You know, I'm already a crippled fighter, as they say, sorry. I have been able to defend the principles of Ukrainian independence under different conditions. And I think that the rule of law, the principle and the experience that I have behind me, will allow me to say that I will act as a judge of the Constitutional Court in accordance with the requirements of the rules of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u113	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u114	Murmitch Anatoly Petrovich please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u115	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u116	Dear Mrs. Olga, please tell me that one of the previous candidates said that the Constitutional Court has a power of attorney today and that it is necessary for the Constitutional Court to create some contradictions. How do you see the seat of the Constitutional Court in our society, our judiciary, and does it need any opposition? And if so, what do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u117	Thank you so much for asking such a beautiful question. You know, I think that the Constitutional Court should stand in front of the interests, rights and freedoms of the Ukrainian people and sovereignty, and look at everything that's going on to uphold the norms of the Constitution. I think the Constitutional Court is out of politics and it has to have the immunity, both political and social, which is universally relevant to the Constitutional Court. It's completely different, let's say an institution, it's not an institution like the courts of general jurisdiction. Therefore, I believe that the Constitutional Court should be treated with respect that people are in the most responsible place. These are the people who are called to protect the constitutionality of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u118	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u120	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. I have a question for you, which is the same as the positions that we asked the previous candidates. First. There is a decision, a resolution of the European Parliament, which very clearly notes and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt appropriate legislation in order. Ma'am, step away, please, I'd like to speak to the candidate. The resolution of the European Parliament calls on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt appropriate legislation in order to create a body that will elect candidates to serve as judges of the Constitutional Court, taking into account good faith, and thus re-establish the Constitutional Court. The same is true of the Big Seven countries. In your opinion, would it not be appropriate to hold a competition for judges of the Constitutional Court after the adoption of the relevant legislation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u122	Thank you very much, Irina Volodymyrna, for asking. I want to say that I am now in this high rostrum as a candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court. And I'm here according to the rules of law. Today, there are such requirements. If the requirements for candidates and or appointments, or co-existences, are changed, and they will, of course, be changed – only this is the prerogative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine – then, of course, we will deal with this issue entirely on the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear reporter, sit down. The candidate for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u124	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, revered Ukrainian people! Today, in fact, there is an absolutely remarkable day. Because the question of the election of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is clearly an unprecedented event. Moreover, an unprecedented event is today’s consideration of this issue on the anniversary of the Mayan shootings. But let's remember what this Revolution was called -- it was called the Dignity Revolution. And dignity, as one of the most important human values, is one of the most fundamental rights enshrined in the Ukrainian Constitution, this is article 3 and article 28. Moreover, the article of the Constitution, which provides for the possibility of restricting rights under conditions of war and state of emergency, contains a small list of rights that cannot be restricted under any circumstances or under conditions of war or state of emergency, is respect for human dignity. Dignity is an integral part of the concept of justice. Because when we talk about Article 8 of the Constitution, the rule of law, justice without respect for human dignity is impossible. And it's this norm, this particular position, this principle of law, in my view, that must live permanently in the walls of the Constitutional Court. Because people without legal education may not know all the elements of the rule of law. But they always feel very clearly where justice is and where it is not, where the judgment of a court or Constitutional Court is just or not. Therefore, my task, my goal, is what I have agreed to be a candidate for, so that I can work and work to establish the principles of justice and respect for human dignity not only in every decision but literally in every day's activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u125	Thank you. Please sign up for the interview, for a question to the reporter. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u126	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u127	Ruslan Petrovich Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u128	Ruslan Mikhailovich, good afternoon. It's good to see you in the rostrum. I really have a lot of questions to ask you, but I would like to pick one that is most close to you from a professional point of view, because you and I have worked with the Committee on Legal Policy for five years, where, among other things, we have discussed the Law on Amendments to the Constitution in the Reform of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court Act itself. I have a question for my next character. At that time, it seemed to us that by introducing a constitutional complaint institution that is acceptable to many countries of the European Union and the world, we could somehow make another safeguard so that Ukraine would not be among the leaders of the European Court of Human Rights. Sadly, though, let us be objective about things. Why do you think that didn't happen? You're the head of the Human Rights Council of the European Court of Justice. Why do Ukrainians not use this tool as much as we would like? Is it the fault of the Ukrainians, or is it the fault of the court itself? Or perhaps we were underworked at the time, or perhaps we should take a more complex look at these things? How do you see that? Because I think it's a fundamental thing without which it's very difficult to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u129	Thank you so much for asking. Indeed, the institution of the constitutional complaint has become a tectonic shift in the institutional capacity of the Constitutional Court. And a lot of people have, and I had huge expectations for this very powerful human rights tool, but it really didn't work. If we look at the figures on how many constitutional complaints are accepted by the Constitutional Court in relation to those submitted, we will see that they are accepted, that they are acceptable very much. In my view, there are two problems in my subjective beliefs. Let's be honest and objective to the end, the level of many of my fellow lawyers is sometimes not enough to prepare a quality constitutional complaint that will address the issues of constitutional matter, not agree with the court's decision. At the same time, in my practice, a personal lawyer, when I was filing constitutional complaints, raises certain questions, let's say precisely why certain complaints are not allowed. So I think that in this case it is on the shoulders of the Constitutional Court, which should uphold human rights as the highest value, that is responsible for the effectiveness of the constitutional complaint. And this is something that will undoubtedly be able to help in the form of work and the legislative body, and all the authorities of the state, since article 19 of the Constitution, has to go through a cross thread where a person, a citizen, enters into some kind of dispute with the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u130	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Velitchovich Mikola Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u131	Please give the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u132	Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u133	Dear Mr. Ruslane, in your speech, you have repeatedly called attention to the importance, priority of the rule of law, and that this should be clear to every person with legal education. Green has legal education, but there is a problem with understanding the rule of law. How do you comment on the Greens Bill on the Constitutional Court's launch, the ignorance of it, which has already been evaluated by both the Venice Commission and other experts? And the second question is to you as a well-known lawyer, really. Now Mr. Zelensky has submitted a bill finally to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the scandalous district administrative court, proposing that a large part of the authority be transferred to the Supreme Court. But the day before, the majority had essentially killed the Supreme Court, simply shortening it and taking over the great function of the Supreme Court. And today, we know, there have been complaints for years and there is no way to look at them. So how does it connect?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u134	Mrs. Irina, thank you so much for asking. Of course, the issue of such high political importance is of great social interest. And do I have a position on the questions you asked? Without a doubt, there is. At the same time, to my great regret, I will not be able to give you a specific answer for two questions, for two reasons, more faithfully. Part three of article 11 of the Constitutional Court Act requires a judge of the Constitutional Court and a candidate to meet the criterion of political neutrality. I'd love to comment, but I don't have the right, or I'm going to break up as a candidate for the most fundamental things. One second. These bills. [[Applause]] Thank you. One second. These bills that you mentioned, they haven't even become laws yet, are bills, but they can theoretically become laws. And if it happens that I become a judge of the Constitutional Court, and now from this rostrum I'm going to take my stand, it's going to be a prejudiced position that will lead to the need for a statement of self-refoulement in this case. I am delighted to share my thoughts privately, but I do not have the right to make public my opinion on the positions of law that may be the subject of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please understand the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u135	Thank you, Your Honor. The time has come, I think you have answered the questions to the fullest extent. Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the candidates have now had the time of factions and MPs to express their positions. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, right now we're not choosing those we like politically, we're choosing those people who will defend the Basic Law, the Constitution. At a time when the Constitutional Court has actually lost its legitimacy, when, in fact, the Head of the Supreme Court is hiding from responsibility, avoiding responsibility, we need to bring out any politicization of this process. We need to see if the candidates really meet all the requirements of political neutrality, especially the availability of professional training. But what would be right after we, as a country, turned to the Venice Commission and asked us to help solve a constitutional crisis that had not occurred anywhere. Implement the main recommendation: prepare a new procedure by which judges of the Constitutional Court are elected. And, of course, it would be very appropriate not to vote today at all, like the next vote, until the election procedure is changed. Because that would be grown-up: when they ask for recommendations, they're implemented. Since this process has begun until we receive recommendations, of course we will support those whom we consider worthy to protect, not the interests of any faction, particularly the Voice factions, but the Constitution. And we urge, let's not imitate, but let's follow the recommendations that we asked ourselves to make. Let's put in place a procedure for the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court, which would predict a competition, not a simulation, which led to a person who got a degree less than 15 years ago, to claim that this is really an experience. Although the article clearly states: Education and professional experience. Let's not imitate it. If we want to solve the constitutional crisis, we need to solve it -- choose professional neutrals, but through a new procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u137	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Mikhailovich Sinyutzi, a faction of political "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u138	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u139	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze. Dear colleagues, please step out of the way so that the national deputies can get to the rostrum normally.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine is asking the European Union for a road map, how do we get in there, and the President of the United States is asking why we are not yet in NATO, not knowing, not knowing that all the road maps are actually in front of us, all the road maps are given to us, and all we have to do is do our homework. All we have to do is listen to the international community when it gives us recommendations and what to do when it wants us to unite with the civilized world. And we need to listen to both the G7 and the Venice Commission and GRECO when they say that the answer to the constitutional crisis can't be the unconstitutional passing of a bill on the dissolution of the Constitutional Court. And when they support the European Solidarity Initiative? Even if you don't like the opposition to this initiative, that the procedure for the selection of constitutional judges should be changed, and that moral, highly professional, authoritative international and Ukrainian experts should be involved in it, to create a Council of Goodwill, which has reached its conclusions and in the selection of the judges of the Supreme Court, and in the selection of the judges of the Anti-Corruption Court, we already have this practice. And what our state does is it doesn't change these procedures. Our majority today raises the question of the appointment of new constitutional judges. Why? Because I want to lead my own who will obey. Because they don't want clean and transparent procedures. Because they continue to spit against the wind, because last week the Prime Minister in the European Union swore and prayed that Ukraine had returned to the path of reform, that we saw our future only among the civilized world, and today we are once again offered to play with the thimbles. So, colleagues, I want to tell you that our partners, our best friends, are very well aware of your actions. And you're destroying these remaining trusts that you haven't spilled in two years to Ukraine. Start respecting yourself, start respecting the state, start respecting institutions. We've proposed a new procedure. Vote for it. Mr. Head, put her to the vote and then we will take truly virtuous, professional and high moral judges to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u141	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u142	Please hand over Ivanovich Batenko to Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u143	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u144	Colleagues, our "For the Future" MP, every personal deputy of the Supreme Council, ours, who represents the majority districts, we want to be honest in front of our electorate, in front of the people. This is particularly true of today’s vote regarding the re-staffing of members of the Constitutional Court. You know, we're talking about a containment system and an opposite system, a system of distribution of branches of power. But let's be honest about whether we actually have an organ in a state that is really independent, that is not under pressure from one or the other executive authorities. We have, I believe, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is an institution that has to be independent, unbiased and impartial. It is the only body capable of interpreting the Constitution of Ukraine. It's part of our national security. Look, I'm more than convinced that historians will ever describe the situation of this so-called "constitutional crisis" with a more premeditated crisis and will describe the situation of who was pressurized, starting with the conclusion that the previous composition of Parliament was dissolved and the other findings of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We want the impartiality and independence of this body, not the judicial branch of power, the Constitutional Court, over the judicial branch of power. And that's why, my friends, today's vote is fundamental to us. I personally know a few candidates for this position. I know them as good people, good people, deep knowledge of constitutional law. But it was supposed to be constitutional law; it should be uninvolved; it should have the restraint to face possible pressures on the part of individuals and authorities. We should be a supporter of liberal democracy, because we have conservative democracy, we have social-democratic democracy, we just have democracy. Why just liberal democracy? You don't have to show your non-involvement here anymore -- some kind of democracy. It's got to be. There is no need to talk about any responsibilities that the Constitutional Court has. The Constitutional Court now has many representations of the Supreme Council deputies awaiting their consideration and not being considered. Also, the presentation about the earth’s market is not considered. And we understand the pressures of the Constitutional Court today. And the last thing I want to point out. We have the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which defines article 208-4, “The Order of Appointment of Judges of the COP”, according to which the Supreme Council appoints judges by list according to the number of vacancies. We have two positions, so today we should make two decisions about two candidates of the Constitutional Court. Let's call it "four plus four" ratings, but in summary, according to the Rules, Dmitri Alexanderovich, we have two decisions to make today. That is why I do not think that we are fully in line with the decision of the Rules today and that we do not have the right vote today. So we're going to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u145	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u146	Please give the word of Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich in support of Pavelek Jury Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u147	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u148	Thank you. Mr. Head, respectable colleagues! Indeed, we are making an important decision today. Perhaps today there will be an appointed judge of the Constitutional Court on the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a logical question. Today, on the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are two seats available in the Constitutional Court. Why are we voting today for only one candidate? Maybe it's because some people want to drag out someone they like today, including the Bank and the President, and the rest of them stay behind. Always the principle of quota, he united the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and then we had the opportunity to make balanced decisions. Unfortunately, now they're trying to do it in another way. We take responsibility for Yuri Pavlovka. I can tell you that I've known him for many years. Moreover, I know him as a trusted mate, but I know him as a very principled opponent. What did Yuri Pavlovenko’s views over and over again dominate? The principle, loyalty to the law, loyalty to the rule of law and the Constitution of Ukraine. Believe me, when it comes to the dominant of the Constitution, the rule of law, you will never find compromise with it. Because for him the human rights, the rights of the child, where he has shown himself to be one of the best professionals in the history of an independent Ukraine, civil rights, the rights of journalists, including, first and foremost, he has been shown to be a person who, despite even his political views, goes to the decisions that the law, law and the Constitution demands today. That is why we today take responsibility for Yuri Pavlenko and offer him a high office as judge of the Constitutional Court. One hundred percent are confident that Yuri Pavlovka’s practice will bring exclusive respect and gratitude to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole for her delegation of him if his candidacy is supported. The Constitution, the law, civil rights, man and man are what Yuri Pavlenko today proposes to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u149	Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u150	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! With regard to our vote today, it is certainly vital. We all understand perfectly what an institution the Constitutional Court is. And we all understand very well the realities of today's life, where the Constitutional Court of Ukraine does not always make the decisions that the Constitution requires, and which the Ukrainian people expect, the Ukrainian society. Why is this happening? This is because not always the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine meet the mandatory constitutional requirements for a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And I want to remind you: the Constitution says that a judge of the Constitutional Court can be a lawyer with a recognized level of competence, and a person with high moral qualities. Among the candidates who spoke today from this rostrum, I am convinced that all are fine and worthy people. The Political Party "The Servant of the People" appointed the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in accordance with the Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council, Kichuan Viktor Ivanovich. I myself have known this person for more than 30 years, and I can honestly and responsibly state that this person is certainly in line with the requirements of the Constitutional Court. First of all, he's a recognized constitutional law expert who has a lot of scientific work that confirms his level of competence. He is a 25-year-old lecturer who teaches at one of the most powerful law schools in Ukraine, at the National Law University of Yaroslav Wisego. And his principle position as a lecturer, it certainly confirms his compliance with the Constitution’s requirements for high moral qualities. This is a person who has never compromised with his conscience who has stood up for his stand at all levels. So I urge all my colleagues to vote and support their vote by Kichun Viktor Ivanovich. I would also like to refer to colleagues who warn that there is a decision by the Venice Commission and there are draft laws that provide for the participation of international experts in a competition commission from the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Yes, it really is. But I would also like to recall the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in the case of amendments to the Judicial Act concerning judicial authorities, where the Constitutional Court clearly and unequivocally stated that the presence of international experts in competitive commissions is a threat to national sovereignty, the State sovereignty of Ukraine. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u151	The great Sergey Anatolyovich. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u152	Sergey Shahov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, what is the state for? We already have a crisis in everything: in industry, in the agricultural sector, today's crisis in the power structures, there's a war going on, people are starving. Where did the trial come from? We cannot choose the judges of the Constitutional Court in this room. There have already been such instances in history when the pope was chosen. Pope of Rome! Three years! When people gathered with authority, they closed the conclave and tore the roof to sit and choose for the people, but it was faith, faith. What do we believe today, when human constitutional rights are violated, is left to a million people on the street, 1 million 700,000 displaced persons who have been banned from voting in Lugansk, Donetsk, to give their right to choose? I don't think we're going to have to call on the people today to shut down Parliament in order to elect the judges of the Constitutional Court to pass the constitutional crisis in our country. I am convinced that the Hall will unite and support a candidate who will take office and reach a conclusion, the first conclusion of the actions of the heads of the Donetské and Lugansk civil administrations, who have left the rights of millions of people to choose. I am convinced that justice will still take place in our country. Are there people in this room who care only for their policies, who care only for their pockets, who care only for the end of the war, and the oligartic forces behind it, just to ensure that people are killed today? That is why we today support the decisions of the entire room by electing the judges of the Constitutional Court. I'm sure we can do that. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u153	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Soboled? Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, the history of the Constitutional Court has had various sequels. I want to remind you of the first time that the session hall was elected by the Constitutional Court, which for several years could not begin its work. And it wasn't just that. Unfortunately, both parliaments and presidents have always feared the Constitutional Court. And what's happening today is just unnecessary confirmation. Better to have a vacancy, better to keep blocking the work of the Constitutional Court than to start working. Because the Constitutional Court is not just guarding human rights and freedoms. This is an organ that stands on the watch of the state, the foundation of statehood. And the decisions that the members of the Constitutional Court will make are in fact a decision that will last forever. We remember very well how the Constitutional Court manipulated the Constitution, changing it without Parliament’s decision, and then changing its decision. Therefore, those whom we choose today must be people who are not afraid, first of all. Yes, there are general requirements – expertise. There are general requirements for legal education. General requirements that apply to a person’s dignity. But it must be a person who is not afraid. A person who's been chosen for nine years. A person who is given authority to determine in fact the fate of the country and the fate of the people. That's the kind of person Olga Bodnar-Petrovska is. This is a person who has experienced many trials in this life. When those who were hiding were on the front. When those who were afraid, she was on the front. And that's why the "Fatherland" faction has always been very close to our representation in the Constitutional Court. I think a name like Victor Shishkin will enter the history of constitutional justice. And we are not ashamed, unlike many others who have been to the Constitutional Court in order to occupy this place. I think that the session room and the Ukrainian Parliament would be shameless if Mrs. Olga represented the Ukrainian Parliament in the Constitutional Court, because this is the person who went through all the trials. And I think she's going to have a decent way with this difficult but very responsible status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, there are six more minutes to speak from the national deputies of Ukraine. Please sign up for the performance. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, an extremely important day today in the context of the actual reloading of the Constitutional Court, which unfortunately will not take place. Because the change in people in the Constitutional Court, if we don't change the principles, won't be able to overcome that serious constitutional crisis that was created, including the completely unprofessional decision of President Greensky and his bill on the dissolution of the Constitutional Court. As a democratic opposition, we have proposed to Parliament, and to President Zelenski, a real solution to this constitutional crisis: to adopt a law on the creation of virtue with the involvement of international experts so that there is no doubt in any person in the country about the integrity of the judges of the Constitutional Court, in order that we may be given the same treatment as the Higher Anti-Corruption Court, which the Green Court so likes to praise, in order for the Constitutional Court to be formed for such a cure. But the problem in Zelensky is different. When he has 100 percent of his Henprocuror today, when he has his D.B.I., his Ukrainian Security Service, he still needs to destroy, in fact, the anti-corruption authorities and place 100 percent of his anti-corruption prosecutor, as well as subjugate the N.A.U.U.A. and place his 100 percent N.A.U.B. Manager. That's the same thing as a cashier's Constitutional Court, which is going to do all the demands: the dissolution of Parliament, the "cleaning" of political opposition parties and all the other demands. And that's actually why today, from this rostrum, we've actually seen maybe one person who is very clearly aware that the judge of the Constitutional Court is supposed to be apolitical. And from the "ministers of the people," we've heard that this was not a lawyer, but a politician who actually has political involvement, who's ready to show loyalty here, not even being a judge, but questioning all of his next votes and decisions. Do you understand what's going on? In general, personnel policy is such an achilles' fifth green team that it's even more painful to talk about. And every day, when you demonstrate your new and new frame, you demonstrate that there is no principle of professionalism, of personnel, of expertise, of the rule of law, and there is only loyalty. A person has to be 100 percent of his own. That's what we recommend, my friends. In order to change the institution, it is necessary to strengthen it first by adopting a bill that is supported by our partners, the Venice Commission, the Great Seven countries, by a resolution of the European Parliament on the creation of good offices. And only then, after recognition of the criteria can you go to the surnames, and all the rest is just a simulation of a violent activity aimed at bringing the Constitutional Court under control, which is also Greene's.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u157	Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Ladies and gentlemen, after that, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u158	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! In the last five years, together with our team "The Opposition Platform for Life", we have personally won over 10 decisions by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine by Vasil Ivanovich Germany and other colleagues in this room. And the Constitutional Court acknowledged that the Parliament of the previous Assembly had violated the Constitution of Ukraine. Parliament has deprived the aid and compensation of veterans, children of war, pensioners of civil servants, millions of citizens of our country who have given their lives, of their health for the sake of the peaceful sky in our country. But unfortunately, neither the previous Parliament nor this Parliament has done anything in these years to ensure that the Constitution is implemented in our country. We have ordered the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry. Because until we can figure out why the Constitution is not being implemented in our country, why MPs who make anti-constitutional decisions are not responsible for this; why Parliament is hiding its head in the sand and not making the appropriate decision to establish the rights of the Constitution and to establish those rights of people who are unconstitutionally deprived of it, until then almost everyone can corrupt the Constitution. Therefore, "The Opposition Platform for Life" today, when we consider the possibility of electing new judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, first proposed the candidate Yuri Pavlenko as a person who has fought for human rights for the rest of her life. A man who has never violated the Constitution of Ukraine. And we're talking to all the factions: enough political bickering, now professionalism must prevail in this country. And we must correct those mistakes that were made by the previous Parliament. Today, we must do our utmost to have the Constitutional Court consider land issues, language law and other decisions and to put a stop to the constitutionality of these decisions. And so that the whole country can finally see that this Parliament is implementing the Constitution of Ukraine, that the judges we elect to the Constitutional Court are aware of the Constitution of Ukraine; that the deputies of Ukraine today are willing to correct the mistakes and protect those people who have been deprived of constitutional rights in our country. Please support Yuri Pavlovka’s candidacy and we wish everyone success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u160	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, I declare that there is a conflict of interest, so I will not take part in this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u161	Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich. Better get the card so that there are no accidents. Pursuant to Article 208 pr. 4 The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is carried out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by an open rating vote for each candidate separately. Let's move on to the alphabetical voting in each candidate separately. I will name my father’s name, and you will identify who to support. Bondar-Petrovska Olga Borisovna. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:41:15]] For-95 Kichuan Victor Ivanovich. Please support and vote. [[13:41:38]] For 237 Decision taken. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich. Please vote. [[13:42:02]] For 158. Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:42:24]] For 168 The largest number of votes won by Kichuan, I understand, 237. Pursuant to Article 208 pr. 4 Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, put to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. According to the rating vote, the largest number of votes of the Ukrainian national deputies was received. Pursuant to articles 85, 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 208, para. 4 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, putting to the vote the question of the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Kichuan Viktor Ivanovich. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:43:27]] For 241 Decision taken. Congratulations! Thus we appointed a judge. (Show by factions, please.) Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Quichun Viktor Ivanovich. I'd like to say hello to my colleague. Congratulations, I wish you success in your new position. Please make a decision on the consequences of the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, along with the Apparatus. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Cases and Causes of Children's Rights in the Decentralization of Children's Rights, the Reform of the Institutional Care and Education System, the Realization of the Child's Right to Family Education and Adoption, the Development (Modernization) of Social Services (Registration No. 5006). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:44:52]] For 254 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Susko Pavlov Mikolayovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, the fourth year is in the process of reforming deinstitutionalization, for which Ukraine has received a loan from the World Bank of $300 million and for which state subsidies have been granted. The reform was aimed at the best interests of the child so that you and I could make children's lives for the better. What's really going on? For our money with you, in the form of this reform, instead of reforming children’s homes, social services, and inclusion, special schools for children with heavy nosology are being widely destroyed. I talked to representatives of international organizations in Ukraine, they assured me that they had warned that there was no need for reform to include the "Deliverance of Special Schools," much to be warned about. As a result, what have you and I achieved in four years of reform? Small children’s homes are not designed, and children’s homes are not transformed into rehabilitation centers and palliative care. Inadvertent adoption, care, and a lack of protective and foster families have not been created. Social services and inclusion are slowly developing. Of course, it is easier to close special schools for children with special educational needs and return their children to their parents in order to demonstrate the results, since it is not necessary to spend money in the family — this is all reform — and to report on deinstitutionalization. Because there's not enough money to reform boarding homes. In order to verify this, it is sufficient to check the public access of the accounts of the Accounting Chamber, there are all the answers. The time seems to have come for us to see whether we need to see the reform, or whether we need to do it the way it did around the world. For this purpose, I am initiating the establishment of the TSC, which will identify the causes and facts of child rights violations, find out the effectiveness of the Ministry's activities, study the state of legislation, conduct project audits, initiate the issue of bringing the guilty to justice. Representatives of almost all factions have joined the TSC. I ask you to support this decision for the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u163	The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u164	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee considered the draft Regulation 5006. In addressing this issue, the committee made a number of comments. First of all, in sub-paragraph 2, paragraph 2, the words “research of the effectiveness of the ministries (in the plural) of social policy, education and science and health” should be replaced by the words “research of the effectiveness of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and the Ministry of Health of Ukraine”. Paragraph 3 should be worded as follows: "Determining that the composition of the Interim Investigation Commission is 11 national deputies of Ukraine." In paragraph 5, the names of the members of the Interim Investigation Commission should be placed in alphabetical order according to the father of the Ukrainian National Deputies. The names of the MPs and groups in paragraphs 4 to 5 of the draft regulation are also needed for editorial clarification. It should also be pointed out that the draft regulation, like most other draft decrees on the creation of interim commissions of inquiry, is defined as one of the tasks of the commission – initiating the question of involving the guilty in the responsibility of the legislation of Ukraine. The Regulatory Committee has repeatedly commented on the non-conformity of this task with the provisions, such as articles 92 of the Constitution, articles 21, 22 of the Law on Temporary Investigators and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and article 88 of the Rules, which is also emphasized by the General Legal Administration, by commenting on previous rulings. Taking into account the regulatory committee, he decided to recommend to Parliament that the draft decree should be considered taking into account the Committee’s observations and that it should be decided in accordance with part three of article 138 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u165	Needed Discussion? Please sign two in, two in, and two in, against the MP factions and groups. The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u166	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. Dear colleagues, Luhansk will certainly support the creation of the TSK. But it is very important to examine the decisions made by the heads of the VCA in Luhansk to close schools and kindergartens, specialized schools, to study where money was spent. But the president stressed the need to build, and in Luhansk everything was broken. Therefore, it is also a matter of priority to draw attention to the appeal of the Sukhov People's Deputy towards Lisicansk, where it was not decided to take on the balance of the Lysican VCA Children's Garden of Kololczyk. Children do not get proper attention in Luhansk. And at the present time, there are still no military and civilian administrations in the cities of Pázna, Hirski, where children's institutions can't work and they don't get a decent salary from a teacher. That's why we support the creation of this TSC and we ask you to work in the first place in Luhansk. Thank you for your attention. Sergey the Great, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u167	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u168	Sophia Fedina, European Solidarity. To begin with, I would like to point out that, yes, we will support the creation of a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the situation of child rights violations. But I would like to remind you that a temporary commission of inquiry is an instrument of opposition. And in this case, when authorities create and call for temporary commissions to be created, these are enrollment in their own incompetence, incompetence, and, as a result, unwillingness to solve any problems. You have a monopoly, you have your government, you have your president, and you are unable to protect the rights of a child, that you need a temporary investigation commission? Come on, people, start working, not doing stupid things in this room! But if you're already putting this issue on a daily basis, perhaps in the context of adopting the Order on the Dignity Revolution, you'll also gain dignity and vote in favour of creating a temporary investigation committee on the Sheremet case. I remind you, Andrew Antonenko has been in prison for over a year without any evidence or medical problems. You are not capable of doing all you can to investigate. not to investigate, but to verify the legality of the matter? Let's create a temporary commission of inquiry on "vagants," that's a matter of treason. And you have the opportunity to create it, but I'll remind you that it's the Servants who don't run for office on this temporary commission of inquiry. And I would like to point out that in this case, having absolute, in fact, power, you have the ability to enter history as real statesmen, so at the moment you're choosing something to bury this state more deeply. Maybe you're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u169	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u170	Dmitri Aleksandrovitch, please wait for the word "Bilozer Larissa Mikolaivni." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u171	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u172	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The MP Group for the Future and the Trust MP group will support the creation of this TSC. We are asked by parents of children with disabilities to protect their children’s rights. Indeed, since 2017 we have been in the process of deinstitutionalization. Simply put, children should not be educated or raised in boarding schools but should be in the family. But the idea, even though it's right, but reform, is really being carried out in a senseless way. Instead of creating small children's homes that aren't created, transforming children's homes into rehabilitation centers, developing adoptions, where you have to go through "7 cycles of Hell" to get that opportunity and pay bribes to take a child, going thoughtlessly to sanatorium schools, special schools, specialized schools. They were determined to eliminate and educate these children with special educational needs and their parents about the fact that they are shutting down the Internet. But, as Mr. Paul said, they took a $300 million loan, they spent $800,000 on deinstitutionalization and monitoring, and consultants. And in fact, there is a situation where children are only suffering and are in massive violation of their rights. There are institutions around the world that don't shut them down, because children with multiple disabilities can't go to a normal school with inclusion. So I'm surprised that such reformers from MONU, Minsoc and the Special Commissioner for Human Rights of Kuleb don't try to figure out why education institutions for such children are and exist. Therefore, the creation of the TSK aims to look at the progress of the reform, the audit of the funds for its implementation, and, most importantly, to correct the errors that have been made, and to protect parents and children with special educational needs, to prove their constitutional right to receive education in such institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u173	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u174	Please pass the word to Paulie Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" supports the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry. Why? The reform of deinstitutionalization began long ago in Ukraine. And there was a time when it developed and was being implemented in the interests of the child. Sadly, things have changed lately. We started talking about deinstitutionalization of institutions, that is, the closure of institutions where children are brought up in need of adequate services. In fact, reforming the deinstitutionalization of a child — that is, creating every opportunity for a child to live — develops in the family. And so when it comes to retraining or disposing of any institution that concerns a child, it's either to create conditions and to preserve the maximum potential for raising a child in a biological parent's family. If there is a family crisis, that is, through mechanisms to restore parental potential, or if that is not possible, to create conditions for training in other forms of family life. It is either a foster home, or a foster family, or adoption, care, and care. And only then can we talk about changing institutions. Unfortunately, today we have a situation where we have a resurgence of hidden orphanages, where many children of de facto orphans do not have this status, overcrowded boarding houses. Unfortunately, there is a resurgence of childlessness, overcrowded shelters, and we are talking about closing down institutions. And decentralization reform. Only 400 OTG have children’s services created. There's no one at this time to provide protection services.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u176	Thank you. I see. And Eutuszek was. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u177	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. The Fatherland faction will support this draft decision and will, in principle, ask all members of the commission to study very carefully and in detail all cases where children's rights are violated. These rights of the child are violated, according to our information, in various cases. This is when a child is denied parental education at a school or other school. Children's rights are often violated, children with special educational problems is an inclusive education. This, too, will be very important for the members of this committee to examine. Take a look at social services reforming its implementation of child rights regulations and so forth. So the "Fatherland" faction will support this draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u178	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u179	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Of course, we need to make the right decision. We need all the national MPs to join us. Because what's going on in the so-called deinstitutionalization has turned into destruction, the theft of money by officials. We need to examine the impact of individual organizations, including social organizations, on all these processes. Some of the pain is probably from boarding schools. I wish I could. And we've just been talking to the future head of the TSC, that it's going to be every single facility to figure it out. For example, Maria Mezentsevsky in the district has a facility that treats children with visual problems. So it's not a question of deinstitutionalization, it's a question of the well-being of these children. These facilities have to work. They should definitely be preserved. And we need to do everything we can to understand why the reform went wrong and what we need to do to Parliament in order to keep the institutions safe so that the children get the services they need. And so that we don't all feel ashamed to be in this Parliament. Because, first of all, we have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u180	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u181	Colleagues, I'd like to begin. Klimenko, the Voice faction. I would like to start with statistics to understand the scope of this reform and what needs to be done in general. In Ukraine, there are 106 thousand children who are in a variety of institutional systems. Of these, only 5 percent are orphans, and all other children have parents. All-time medical care requires about 10,000 to 14,000 children. Less than 1 percent of them, of these children, of the 106 thousand children, get higher education in the end. Less than 10 percent are socializing. I think our TSC, which I am a member of, and our faction will support the creation of this TSC. Our goal is to find a mechanism, how government funds, 11 billion dollars per year is allocated to the child's institutional supervision system, how these funds are spent. How does a child get everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u182	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation and Causes of the Rights of the Child during the Decentralization of Children's Rights, the Reform of the System of Institutions of Institutional Care and Education, the Realization of the Child's Right to Family Education and Adoption, the Development (Modernization) of Social Services (Registration No. 5006). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:03:21]] For 352 Decision taken. Hello! Anna Constantine's speedboat out of procedure. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, I ask you to raise and now consider Bill 4643-d and 4644-d, which are related, because people are gathered on the street, and they expect us to make the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u184	Colleague position? Against it. I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] By voting, because not all factions support this proposal. I am voting on Anna Speedhod's proposal to change the order in which questions are considered in this plenary session. What kind of questions did she just mention? Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:04:34]] For 280 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation and Congregations, Other Compulsory Payments, and the object of taxation is the means of transport (register No. 4643-d). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:05:22]] For 257 Decision taken. The Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Mr. Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u185	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, your attention is drawn to the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Tax Administration and Congregations, Other Compulsory Payments, and the object of taxation is transportation (number 4643-d). The problem of accessible car sweep has been of concern to Ukrainians for many years, and none of the laws adopted so far have resolved it in a comprehensive manner. It was also one of the President’s preelection promises and our team to resolve the issue. During 2020, the National MPs submitted eight different drafts dealing with this issue. After considering them, the profile committee concluded that they were not solving the problem in a comprehensive manner. Neither does the Ministry of Finance support any of them. Hence, none of those laws are able to overcome the corrupt scheme and bring damage to the budget. In order to address the issue of the customs treatment of vehicles in a comprehensive manner, the working group worked out a bill that was drafted by an alternative bill, Bill 4643-d. The new bill proposes to supplement subsections 2 and 5 of Chapter XX of the Transitional Regulations of the Ukrainian Tax Code with provisions whereby, for 180 days, the customs treatment of vehicles, not more than one vehicle per individual, which was imported into Ukraine by 31.12.20, to implement a new formula that does not depend on the cost of the car, but only on the age, volume and type of vehicle engine. Please note that this law does not extend to means of transport if they do not comply with Euro-2 environmental standards and above and originate in an aggressor state or from temporarily occupied territories. After considering the draft laws on available clearance at the January 21st meeting, the Professional Committee recommends that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u186	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Gerus Andrey Mihailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u187	Please give the word to Bogdanec Andrija Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u188	Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u189	Bogdanek Andrija Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u190	Bogdanec Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u191	Comrades, good afternoon! A strange situation has arisen with the issue of sweeping the car. The committee made it clear that all the bills on this issue would be put into a hall where MPs would be able to identify themselves. But in fact, we see a different picture: there are only two bills in the room. Where are the others? Bill 3704 dealt with the accessibility of the car in a comprehensive manner, providing for the solution not only to Euronomist cars but also to support people with disabilities who participated in the ATO. The issue of technical control was brought to the fore by law. Norms were designed to upgrade the moving stock with high - quality cars, VAT schedules, excise withdrawals, and so forth. Why didn't the bill come into the hall? I'm the one who's open, but smart and fair. In fact, these two bills. The problem is not complex; it is selective only for those who drove by 31.12.20. The rate of excise duty depends on the year of production of the car, the newer and more expensive the car, the lower the rate. So the new crossover sport is going to be the same amount as the ten-year "damage phobia." It is not clear which of these figures and calculations was the formula. The VAT is based on the size of the excise duty, which is the fact that we have a tax tax. How can this be accomplished? We're going to have a very dangerous precedent for distorting the tax system. Please don't support this law, because all the people on the street are against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u192	The word is given to the Bakunz Paul Andrievich group "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u193	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs, respected owners and those who want to own new, used cars from Europe! Of course, these two bills are interconnected and provide for the only approach to clearing used cars on foreign registration. Yet they do not solve the problem because they are transport vehicles that were imported into Ukraine by January 1, 2020. Most of the people who had these Europlums have already done it when they had the benefit period. Therefore, these bills do not solve the problem, and the people on the street today demand that we put to the vote a bill number 3704. And among the authors of this bill are also members of the "Trust" MP group. He's on the profile committee, actually, he's predicting a total cancellation of excise duty when importing used cars and sweeping only 30 percent of the price of the car you paid abroad. In fact, such a bill will help our citizens buy cheap cars abroad, and it is cheap to get them at total cost. That's why we're calling on Parliament's leadership to assign a profile committee to consider Bill 3704 and put it to a vote here at the Supreme Council Hall. By doing so, we will help transporters and those who want to buy transportation equipment. Thank you. Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u194	The word is given to the national deputy of Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, the only positive thing about this bill is the well-respected copyright team from the committee. But we will not vote in favour of this bill, and I urge you not to. Look, there's a document or a book called "The Dictionary of the Ukrainian Language," and there's a definition of the word "last" -- one that's not followed by another is not repeated. Dear colleagues, we've accepted the latest changes in this room for the Europellas several times. If we should not have self - respect, those who believed you had their car turned over to pay for the state’s money. And now we're showing everything that they were deceived, they're wrong, because the state will offer them better now. Dear colleagues, if we want to help people get cheaper cars, let's vote on the bill on Eurotransport, let's give people the opportunity to earn more, let's make these benefits for everyone. We really can't support the Lamborghini owners' bill by giving them the right to blur the car for the same amount as the damage. And last but not least, dear colleagues. Why is it so bad when we raise the bill in order of the day? Now Minfin must sit in this bed and tell us how much money the state won't get because we're going to adopt the law. How much will the pension not be paid, how much will the doctors not pay, how much will the roads not be built? And I'm very ashamed that there is no Minfin now who should be the first to go against this bill. Dear colleagues, this bill is not fair, we are for people to be able to buy a car, but it's ecological, it's right. And the benefits, if given, are for all, not for those who have found a lasagna in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u196	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, at first in our country, our home car was destroyed. Today, unfortunately, the giants of this industry are almost stopped. Then they decided to help people, and they accepted the benefits, and they gave them the opportunity to buy anything abroad and bring them to their country. But unfortunately, you didn't solve that question either. Then people believed you, brought cars -- you started creating obstacles. What's going on in the country now? That we have the poorest country in Europe, where the most expensive cars can't be. So, of course, this is where we have to make a complex decision, and unfortunately, this bill that we're currently considering doesn't solve it. So we were approached by people who are not the first to come under the walls of Parliament, who are not the first to ask Parliament to make a fair decision -- to enable people to at least plan their future. Therefore, "The Opposition Platform for Life" does not support this bill. At the request of the people, we are prepared to support Bill 3704 in order to address this issue. We are also ready to consider the next bill. Well, first of all, we're going to this room: that's enough to make unprofessional decisions. First, we have to do everything that was our own car building. We must do our utmost to enable people to obtain available cars in the country today so that they can buy at reasonable rates and fulfill the country’s obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u198	It's Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. The zymbaluk is a motive. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, why 3704? Because this bill solves a complex problem for people who fight for their right to a cheap blur. He takes down this problem once and for all, and we don't go back to it. The only addition to the bill that we are currently discussing is that it will allow today to remove the issue of fines for people who continue to drive cars like this. All of it. We have a very complicated "fork": we go to a meeting on one question, but we don't solve this problem in a complex way. It's the same thing that we did on Save FOP, the RRO -- take them off temporarily for a year or take them off forever. I'm a supporter of complex solutions. But it's up to you. Our MP group calls for a comprehensive approach to this issue. And even if we get the required number of votes for this bill right now, we're going to go back to 3,704, if we even have to hold an emergency session.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u200	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u201	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, where are the government representatives to explain today how these cars got into Ukraine through the air? Who has taken advantage of those poor people who have remained conscientious purchasers of these cars? Who will explain, and where are the names of those people? Next. It doesn't solve the question, it talks about the subject, ladies and gentlemen, don't fool people again like they did with the FOPs. You don't need any excise collection on these cars or on any of them. Take off the Excise Congregation! We are preparing such a legislative initiative, and the congregation should be exposed to harmful air emissions from these cars, as is the case in Europe. We invite representatives of all factions, and Fatherland is ready to invite everyone to prepare a single document once and for all. Let us take the example of other nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u202	Ready to vote? Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for Taxation and Assembly Administration, other compulsory payments, subject to taxation of transport equipment (register No. 4643-d). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:20:04]] For 259. Decision taken. Show the factions, please. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to temporarily simplify the customs clearance of vehicles imported into the customs territory of Ukraine. Is it necessary to discuss whether we can vote? Vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on the temporary simplification of customs clearance of vehicles imported into customs territory of Ukraine (registration number 4644-d) Ready to vote? [[14:21:01]] For 293 Decision taken. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 on financial security for the activities of the Eye Microsurgery Centre (Registration No. 4649). No discussion, no discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Two factions insist on discussion. We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[14:22:00]] For 309 Decision taken. It is proposed to apply the ad hoc procedure for making decisions at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[14:22:23]] For 311 Decision taken. I'm voting on a motion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[14:22:45]] For 296 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, who insists on the discussion? Voice. Just the Voice? "ES"? No, it's not. And then two minutes -- one faction, two minutes -- another vote. None. No, or yes, or let's talk and go. No, I'll talk to you later. Then the position of the committee, please. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zub Valeriy Alexiyovich, is invited to attend. We voted on the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u203	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Act amending Appendix 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2021 on the financial security of the Eye Microsurgery Centre. Since 2015, the financial provision for the operation of the Kyiv Municipal Hospital of the Ophthalmological Hospital "Centre of Microsurgery of the Eye" has been mainly based on the cost of a medical subsidy from the State budget to the local budgets. However, the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2021 does not provide a health grant from the State budget for local budgets, and its financial resources for financing medical services related to the provision of secondary specialized and third-party highly specialized health care are transferred to the State Health Guarantee Budget Programme. According to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers and the order of the MOH of Ukraine, the center has been designated as a state office for today transferred to the Department of Health of Ukraine. And that's why the center's funding has been suspended for today. The general need for additional current expenditures to maintain the Eye Microsurgery Centre under the budget programme “Specialized and highly specialized health care” provided by state health care institutions for 2021 amounts to 138 million 746 thousand dollars. In view of the above, there is a need for the adoption of the Ukraine Act amending Appendix 3 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act on financial security for the Eye Microsurgery Centre by reducing expenditure under the budgetary programme of the State guarantee of health care for the population by 138 million 746 thousand dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u204	The chairman of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Oblivious Lesia Valentinovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u205	Honourable Dmitry Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, the Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting on February 17, this year, reviewed the bill (number 4649). The bill aims to provide financial security for the public budget of the Eye Microsurgery Centre, which according to the government’s decision has been transferred to the Ministry of Health. In order to address this issue, proposed changes to Appendix 3 of the State Budget 21 Act have been proposed, which, within the overall scope of government budgetary allocations under the General Fund of the Ministry of Health, has increased the amount of expenditure under the budget programme for the provision of health care to state-owned institutions by almost 139 million dollars for the reduction in the same amount of expenditure for the implementation of the State Health Guarantee Programme. According to the Ministry of Health, the amount of money corresponds to the calculations. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office considers it appropriate to obtain an appropriate expert opinion from the government and does not deny the possibility of adopting a bill. In view of the urgency of resolving the matter, the Committee concluded that the following decision had been adopted: to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill on registration number 4649 to include in the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the results of the first reading to be adopted on the basis and as a whole as a law with the necessary editorial and technical legal rights related to the proper drafting of the bill, as stated in the Committee's letter. At the same time, I am informing you that the Committee on Budget Affairs has taken a decision and made a recommendation to the government to carry out continuous monitoring and monitoring of the use of public budget funds by the Eye Microsurgery Centre and the following committee information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u206	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Shapovalov Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u207	Pass the speedboat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u208	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u209	Anna Krakhod, MP for the Future. Of course, we support the bill. What's more, you know, we have to solve these questions not at the last minute, and not take them out into the hall and spend time on them, but when we adopt the budget. And I would like not only the Eye Microsurgery Center to be funded, but other institutions and medical institutions as well. What is more, I would like more money to be spent on the treatment of children. We have an acute question about the treatment of mucoviscidosis when children simply do not receive the necessary medication or are buying medicines that are not suitable for them. We have a huge question about the onco in the same kids. When oncocentres in free chemistry say that, you know, if you want to kill your child, do it at the expense of the state. And if you want your child to have a chance, you have to pay everything extra and do everything on a pay basis. It is desirable that drugs in Ukraine should be purchased at all times and given to people in our country either free of charge or at affordable prices. We're the bill, of course we'll support it. But he does not solve all the medical problems. I'd like my colleagues to pay attention to this and pay attention to how much suffering we have in Ukraine suffers from lack of normal health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u210	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u211	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. In fact, I remember how this story began. Since sabotage took place on the part of the Kyiv authorities, this facility was not transferred. And in fact, central authority saved the situation and will now do everything to fund a facility to make sure that the unique ones that are possible are used. This is the first specialization of all diseases that affect the eyesight of children. I remember when I came and stood on the rostrum in Kyivrada, I asked, "Dear deputies, vote." It is also said that the budget was misadopted. So because the Kyiv City Council made a bad decision, I want to remind you. Do not forget to talk about it too. I say, "vote." The BBP, impact can't gather voices. First time, second time. Then we decided, but it was too late. So clearly we have to vote. I think we can talk about it for a long time, but we should do it. It is best to do everything possible to ensure that the wages of doctors are paid and that everyone receives services. Because it's a unique institution that we don't have in the country nearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u212	Wasilenko Lesia Volodymyrna. Stefani's? Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u213	So, dear colleagues, when you say so, read the text of the bill. This bill specifically takes 140 million dollars out of all the hospitals in Ukraine, which have 3,000 of which are operated by a health insurance program that works under honest rules, to one particular hospital in Kiev. That is, all hospitals that today provide treatment for cancer, heart attacks, strokes will lose 140 million dollars. Today, the medical guarantees program is underfunded. And I want to tell you, here's what they said, this is the conclusion of Minfin, that there are arithmetical errors in this bill, that they've declared a need three times as high as last year, and that it doesn't match the legislation of Ukraine. And the third. The hospital itself. It's a private clinic where money is being collected from every patient who comes in. The director of the clinic goes to prado, has three areas, has a house in Bulgaria. And now, by voting in favour of this bill, you're giving it 140 million dollars for another great-grandfather. You really think it's necessary to vote!? I think anyone who press the green button now will vote for lobbyism, for corruption, and not for good, colleagues. This bill is corrupt! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u214	Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u215	Please pass the word to Jani Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u216	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u217	Thank you. When deciding whether to vote for the bill, we need to understand the facts: the real need for funding for the 2021 Health Guarantee Programme is not less than 200 billion dollars. At the same time, a sum of 123 billion dollars, or 54.8 dollars, is allocated. No economic accounts have been added to the bill to indicate the need for such additional expenses. The bill also does not contain the conclusions of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee, as well as the Committee on Integration of Ukraine into the European Union, as well as the comments made by GNEU. The Ministry of Finance, in its expert opinion, notes that the amount of funds proposed is unreasonable because it is 20, not 20, sorry, 2.7 times more than in previous years. We need to understand that during the epidemic it is vital not to redistribute the funds planned for the health insurance programme for other expenses. It's very important. We did not actually do this for a year, and during the epidemic it is not acceptable at all. If you don't have enough money for a certain facility, please, you have the money for the President's Office and the strange things where the funds are unreally large, and you don't have enough for medicine. And so for programs that are guaranteed NSOs, it might not be enough, we can't afford that kind of money right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u218	Krulko Ivanovich. After that, Koltunović, Bilozer, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u219	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Fatherland will vote in favour of this bill. And what I'd like to say is that we are now reaping the fruit of this senseless, anti-Ukrainian anti-Ukrainian medicine policy that has been taking place in Ukraine for years, the so-called medical reform of Suprun. This is when medical institutions were deprived of real funding, when they became closed, when we didn't have any lab left, when all the rural medicine and all the FAPs were closed. That's what you've done in this room and now you're defending this ridiculous reform. So I think we have this law to vote on and review a medical reform that neither Ukraine nor Ukrainian medicine have brought about. And with this reform, all the Ukrainian doctors, doctors, nurses were forced out of Ukraine to earn money because they lost their jobs because they closed down medical facilities. This law must therefore be voted on. We need to review the foolish decision and show the Ukrainians that Parliament will think a little about their health.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u220	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u221	Thank you, Mr. Head. Of course, our faction will support an increase in funds for the Kyiv City Hospital of Ophthalmology. We are, of course, puzzled by the fact that, according to the 2021 budget amendment, 138 million 746 thousand dollars are taken from the "Specialized and highly specialized health care" options provided by public health institutions and transferred to other budget programmes. So from this point of view, in our view, it is still necessary to anticipate compensators in order not to translate from empty to empty, but to find additional resources to support health care. And I would also like to point out that I've been surprised to see that we have on the website of the State, and it turns out that as of today, the medical debt of 31 million dollars has increased by 80 percent over the course of the year. It shouldn't be in a country that's struggling with COVID-19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u222	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u223	Respectable Ukrainians, respected colleagues, as a result. I support a colleague from Fatherland who, as a result of the fact that we had a so-called pseudoreform of Suprun in Ukraine, destroyed all such specialized centers. It's just the Filatov Institute and the Eye Microsurgery Center. They can't contract with NSOs under these rules. They don't even have a bag to pay for it. Imagine, this is a unique center, the only one in Ukraine that holds 100,000 consultations a year, 20,000 operations. Yesterday, he was taken with an international passport from an international mission by a diplomat who was denied a private clinic, and his life was saved and his eyesight was saved. I want to say that in this center there are unique operations for premature babies (700-800 grams). There have been patients for 100 years. There's an oncoophthalmology ward, an outpatient surgery, an extended children's ward. This is a republican center because there are eye injuries coming from all over Ukraine. And I urge you to support this bill and allocate it to them because they are with such conditions and with such reforms.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u224	Thank you. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 on financing and securing the activities of the Eye Microsurgery Centre (Registration No. 4649). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:39:27]] For 274 Decision taken. In line with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut down half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals. [[B in m in s a l in]] In general, it's against two factions. Rules of submission and proposals and preparation for the second reading of Bill 4649. Ready to vote? Please support and vote [[14:40:13]] For 294 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on the partial guarantee of agricultural loans (registration number 3205-2). Sorry, we haven't asked yet. By procedure, Dear Mikolayovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to introduce a daily bill of 4410, which will greatly help businesses of light industry. It's relatively technical, and we're going to accept it quickly, perhaps without discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u226	Dear colleagues. Is there a discussion? No, if you're talking, you're talking. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, Your Honor, I'm explaining, your colleague says that you, specifically your faction, will not insist on the performance, all of it. Then the next question. Let's go back to what we agreed on. 3205, 3205-2 Draft Law on the partial guarantee of agricultural loans. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:41:54]] For 245 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Artem Olegovic, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u227	Thank you. Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished people of Ukraine! Your attention is proposed 3205-2 is already re-reading the first reading. And I'd like to say that all the factions and groups have joined this bill, and we've put together a very nice bill to help the little farmer. The small farmer in the bill is up to 500 hectares. And I would like to urge everyone to support this bill, because we are all waiting for it, along with all of Ukraine. Because we've all talked about drought, we've all talked about the complex environment that a small farmer is going to be in. And here we have the opportunity to give them, thanks to this Partial Loan Guarantee Fund, the funds that we're going to invest in our farmer. So I call on all the people's deputies of factions and groups, we've all joined this bill, some of you are even co-authors, please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u228	The chairman of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Solski Mikola Tarasovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u229	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Supreme Council discussed draft laws on the creation of a partial guarantee fund in agriculture on 13 May this year (numbers 3205, 3205-1) as a result of the review was returned to the Committee for re-reading. According to part three of article 100 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules for Rereading, it was decided to submit alternative Bill No. 3205-2. This bill is the result of cooperation between members of different factions, including the co-authors of the project, both the drafters 3205 and 3205-1. The draft law defines the characteristics of the foundation's creation and activities, the type of ownership and corporate governance. The Partial Loan Guarantee Fund is a specialized non-bank financial institution and the State's share of the statutory capital is at least 51 percent. States and international financial organizations may participate, and private capital participation is prohibited. The corporate management of the fund should be carried out by a professional supervisory board, three out of five members of which should be representatives of the State, thus leaving the control package behind the state. The bill sets out the criteria for the profile of borrowers that can benefit from the Fund’s services. The important thing is that small farmers work up to 500 hectares. Securing credit commitments with the Fund guarantees will allow creditors to balance their credit risk assessment and improve access for small and medium-sized producers to bank lending. At its meeting on May 27, the Committee considered the bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council on a basis. People's deputies would like to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u230	Thank you. Please have a seat, Mikola Tarasovich. Needed Discussion? Sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u231	Please give it to Sergio Labazuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u232	Labazuk? Labazuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, the bill is really very important. We have to support a small farmer, a middle farmer in Ukraine, because it's about creating jobs, and economic development, and employment. This bill takes into account a number of our proposals for Bill 3205. And it's very good that the standard of the previous bill has been corrected, and it's increased from the state to three people in the Supervisory Board, which allows you to have a really control package and control the work of the fund to the state itself. At the same time, there are some shortcomings: there is a problem as the fund is being created today, and this creates a risk that the fund will not be sufficient to cover their programs. There is also the question of the organization’s legal form of the fund. And we remember, we've created similar funds before, and they couldn't function productively because of these failures. And I think we're going to need to work out a standard for second reading where loans will necessarily be issued as targets, so that agrarians will use the funds exclusively for the development of an agro-industry complex with the programmes listed. So the Future Group will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u234	Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u235	Please pass the word to Roxolani Podlasi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u236	Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, the Partial Loan Guarantee Fund that the project authors are proposing is about access to the credit money farmers need today and will especially need in the context of opening up the land market on 1 July this year, how the Ukrainian farmer will finally be able to buy land and process it with greater efficiency. At the same time, World Bank research shows that most small farmers in Ukraine do not have access to credit in general, because banks work mainly with large enterprises that process 500 hectares or more and grow grain and oil crops. And even those entrepreneurs who apply for credit are forced to pay on average 20-22 percent, while for other businesses in other sectors of the economy the rate is about 15 to 17 percent. And the Loan Guarantee Fund will make loans much cheaper because it will offer portfolio guarantees that the bank will use as its principal bond. You know, we already have a successful example of a similar program under the "Available Credits 5-7-9 percent" program, banks have already issued almost 21 billion dollars of loans, and most of them, 54 percent of them in agriculture. And that's what this is saying about the crazy demand for cheap funding in this area. The calculations show that each bracelet invested in the Farm Loan Guarantee Fund will allow 8 dollars of credit for businesses in this area. And we know very well that by 2020 we had no access to cheap funding in Ukraine. We've created this opportunity. I propose to expand it today, and I ask you to support Bill 3205-2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u238	Tetjana Mikhaylovna's crying.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u239	Please pass the word to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u240	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u241	Thank you, Reverend Head! Well, what do you mean? "The goal is cunning." Why don't you come up with a plan to steal people's land! "Don't wash, let's roll"! So let's now have people who, without money, we're going to create funds, we're going to shove land into these funds for nothing, we're going to give people money, people will certainly not get it back in time, we're going to take the land. If these funds were to be used for crops, well, I'd still understand, well, there's some risk to protecting money. How can you take people's land, bet? Well, please tell me, is there a conscience? Well, who wants it that way, makes you fool people and take the land away from them? So our position is firm: we will not vote in favour of this law. And anyone who votes in favour of it works for that uncle, which you know. So if you're "ministers of the people," where did you get these initiatives all the time? And then what comes out? The ratings are down, the journalists are guilty, they've closed three channels, tomorrow you want to close another one, we hear. Because these channels say that you don't own people today. There's nothing on the mirror to burn until the roses come out. There is such a folk saying. That's why I think this law is a rude intervention and a robbery of people and their lands. You want to help people, help them free, then maybe something in your ratings will change. Tariffs, no peace, no vaccine. What's with the freedom of speech and journalists? And give the earth to men. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u242	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u243	Please pass the word to Oleg Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u244	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, the lack of normal lending in the agrarian sector of our country is a huge problem. And this is a huge problem for small, small farms, for farmers. Since there is no normal lending, we lose jobs, especially in rural areas. We're losing huge revenue, especially to local budgets, and that's roads, that's infrastructure, that's rural development. It is this bill that makes it possible to create a partial loan guarantee fund in the agricultural sector, which is very necessary for small and small farms, agriculture, and this is what we believe will be a boost to the development of small and small farms, especially in rural areas. That's why the "Trust" MP group will support this bill. He's perfectly well worked out, all the comments were taken into account. We've also joined, our colleagues, in the advanced version, are perfectly normal. Now let's support it and give a good signal to our farmers who are working on enough difficult conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u245	Dear colleagues! Tzabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich, Yvchenko, Gerasimov, then we go to the vote. The Cabal. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u246	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Indeed, this bill is important in terms of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in agricultural production. "European Solidarity" will support it in the first reading. And I call on the entire room to support it as well. Now, pay attention! You remember, this bill has already been considered in this room, this is a rereading of the first reading. And then he didn't pass this session hall. It was not fair because, unfortunately, the state did not have a key influence on the decision - making process. So we could have created, as they say, a private institution for government money. Well, for who, that's a separate question. Then the question did not pass. And now in this amended bill, most of it in this enterprise and most of it in the supervisory board is the state of Ukraine. If there's any comment, it's the first reading, we'll work on the second reading. I urge everyone to support it now, because it's a completely different bill, in a good way than the one that was before the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u247	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, this law is an example of how we, the Supreme Council, have to adopt sectoral laws with a view to all market participants, small entrepreneurs, medium-sized entrepreneurs and large ones. Not the way we sometimes do it when the Supreme Council adopts laws for the benefit of certain players. This law, it's designed for the interests of a very small and medium-sized farmer. This law will help these farmers to borrow, develop their businesses. So in all of Europe, small and medium farmers were successful because they had access to credit. Unfortunately, Ukraine does not have such access. You know, and all those who oppose this law, as if defending the interests of small farmers, are actually protecting the interests of large holdings, which are not convenient for the market to be competitive, so that they have competitors among small and medium-sized businesses. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u249	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u250	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the Law on the Earth Market said the following, which you have adopted, that the Law on the Financial Support of Individuals and Legal Persons should be adopted. Show me, please, in this human law, the physical person. This law speaks of the following, that we are insuring a bank a possible non-return by a farmer. So the farmer has to set up his property, go to the bank, and one and a half times as much credit as he's given, the farmer has to keep the account, the farmer has to take the credit, and maybe if he doesn't return, this fund will return the bank part of the money. Colleagues, this is not what a Ukrainian farmer needs today in the land market. He needs, as always, the Fatherland says, at least he needs to be compensated for part of the first contribution, and family farms and individuals need 200 grand of land. Fatherland won't vote in favour of this law, because it's fiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u251	Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of proposals by the Committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading, in accordance with Article 116 of the Law on the partial guarantee of loans in agriculture (Registration No. 3205-2). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:57:55]] For 295 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. Monastery. From the Monastery procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, there are literally a few minutes left. I propose, in agreement with all factions, that we raise a bill to protect children from sexual exploitation (3055). They're all accounted for. And vote it now, because today we've created the TSC and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u253	Are you sure there's no objection? I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes, so they can make it. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts implementing the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Violence (registration No. 3055). It's a second reading. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts implementing the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Violence (registration No. 3055). Please support and vote. [[14:59:39]] For 322 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-18-m0.u254	But that's what we voted for. There is another proposal for a Presidential veto (3034a) without discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. All of it. Next, no, we don't have time. Then tomorrow will begin with the next one. Dear colleagues! The plenary session is closed. Thank you.
