ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Good morning, members of the media! Please prepare for registration. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left, the Za button. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Ready? I see there's no Vlasenko. But we still have to register. Please register. [[10:04:54]] There are 213 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, it's Herman Denis Vadimovich's birthday. [[Applause]] From myself, from my colleagues, I want health, strength, success, and always victory! So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider the draft Water Management Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, my God, I'm sorry. I just wanted to work. On Wednesday we have 30 minutes to speak from the Ukrainian national deputies. In 30 minutes. Please sign up for the presentations by the Ukrainian national deputies. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u2	Dear Ukrainians, a new parliamentary season began yesterday. In the daytime order, there are many challenges that Parliament must consider and make positive decisions. Sadly, people are poor. Unfortunately, tariffs are growing. Unfortunately, there is no increase in wages. And instead of considering the bills to give people answers to these vicious challenges, the majority on the Conciliation Council passed two bills that repeatedly violate the rights of people of work who have been categorically opposed by the Ukrainian trade unions, 6.5 million Ukrainians are united in trade unions. They are addressed by the International Labour Organization, the United Nations Social and Economic Committee, scientists. The majority, however, draw and draw two bills: 5388 in today’s agenda and 5371. You see, liberalization needs labor legislation. They want to free people from their jobs without agreement with the trade organizations, because, you see, you have to come up with a large capital that Ukrainians need as slaves, not as people who are protected by labour legislation. I hope that we will not reach this bill today, but the majority will draw it again and again. So, to make you understand, dear Ukrainians, the government was considering this bill in a closed session, not even allowing the trade union to be considered. Put this bill back on the first reading. There's a perfectly correct procedure, look at the tripartite group, so that the unions, the real employers and the executive branch can consider and give their final summary. Do not take steps that will then be embarrassing to the whole country. Our parliamentary group is very much in contact with colleagues, please remove the drafts themselves, do not ask questions about work and the protection of people's work, depending on whether today's agenda comes to this question or not. The Ukrainian trade unions demand that the above-mentioned bills be returned to the National Tripartite Commission under the President of Ukraine, whose activities were completed by the Head of State, he reiterated, I apologize, the day before the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's independence. He stressed, however, that the dialogue of employees, their professional representatives, employers and executive authorities and local self - government through the search for compromise should ensure maximum results and social harmony. Head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u3	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u4	Good day, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich, the Presidium, the National Deputies! More than seven months ago, three opposition channels were closed in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine without trial and investigation only under the direction of the PNP and the personal direction of Zelensky. For one reason or another, the authorities closed them down because they told the truth about real life in Ukraine. However, this was just a step that testified, and Ukraine took the path of dictatorship and authoritarianism. After the U.S. victory day celebration of the Great Homeland War, which was organized and conducted by the Opposition Platform for Life, the authorities began to persecute members of our party and set up a court over Victor Medvedchuk. We hear from the authorities lying accusations, whether it's financing terrorism, whether it's treason, or it's a violation of the customs of war. Hand - held prosecutors, investigators, law enforcement officers, supervisors, and the U.S.S.S.S.A. have replaced justice and justice today. Without any evidence, the authorities are trying to isolate Victor Medvedchuk from the political arena because he is afraid of him, afraid of his principled position. The president of Ukraine and his team are very fond to mention winning the presidential election and winning 73 percent. But today the President should remember how he won this victory. He promised to unite, sew the country together. He promised to return the people of Donbas and Crimea because of their mentality. He promised to do everything he could to stop the Donbas bloodshed. He was speaking out against the pressures of the Russian-speaking population and the "Dragonian" tariffs for the population. He advocated the idea of an all-U.S. referendum on a national initiative. I'll say, most of these ideas are borrowed from our party program. Today, however, the views and positions of President Zelensky of Ukraine have changed dramatically. That's why he's afraid of the Opposition Platform for Life and the Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich. Mr. President, "The Opposition Platform for Life" offers you an open discussion with Victor Medvedchuk, your only intransigence opponent, of course, if you're not afraid of a political open discussion. We call on you at any stadium or air of any of the oligarchic channels that you have today to discuss with Victor Medvedczuk the principle of whether Ukraine is developing in the right direction; why the people are impoverished; why the sale of land is a crime against the people; what it takes to stop the bloodbassy on Donbassa; what is the state's policy on Russian-speaking citizens; what is Ukraine's foreign policy? We urge you to hold a discussion with the opposition publicly in the media space, not in the investigators' offices that carry out your personal task of eliminating the opposition and insulating, removing from the political plane of your intransigence and the principle of a firm opponent by Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u5	The word is given to the national deputy Kucherenk Alexi Yuriovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian union "The Fatherland"
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u6	Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Ukrainians! I want to stay calm in my speech, without epathesis, without hysteria, on a huge problem that comes upon us in a way that's called the energy crisis and the energy collapse. What's going on, we'll understand. In Ukraine, there are 13 billion cubic metres of gas that are being extracted by the state company NAK Naftogaz. This is the reserve that can price our government and our state. In fact, so far the price that NAC Naftogaz places on the population and the companies of the heat utility is far from marketable, because the market today shows 20 bracelets per cube, but it's already cloudy. Let me give you a simple example. If the companies put a price on the NAC Naftogazu 7.42, which it exhibits, the tariff on heat will increase by an average of 50 percent. What is it? It's about, you know, a 60-meter three-bedroom apartment is going to pay an extra half-thousand dollars in respect of last year. And what's more, I'll tell you a secret, the reverend "Serve of the People," that authorities on both the streets of Banks and other streets, on the street of Gruszewski, are causing some of the city's heads and harsh conditions. We've raised your price for gas, but don't think about raising your tariffs for the heat of the population, because it's unpopular. How can tariffs not be raised for the heat of the population? Only in one way: either you take the damage to the local budgets, and they're holed up, or you put the burden on the categories of others. What's "others"? It's either a budget sphere (medical, kindergarten, schools, etc.) or a business, a small business that doesn't pull it either. What I'm leading you towards, my friends, I urge you to calmly ask the government from this rostrum to tell us how it is going to prevent this crazy crisis. According to our estimates, yesterday we registered an appropriate bill, at least 30 billion dollars of extra money should be invested in subsidies for the population. Without that, there's going to be a collapse. According to our calculations, it takes a lot of money to put on a subsidy to local budgets so that we don't have to stop the hospital and keep our kids out of school in jackets, you know, not to be 15 degrees. This is all a very serious problem. And I'm going to suggest calmly, without politics, that we immediately figure it out, because it's going to be too late. Let's do this long dialogue with the government and work for the state of Ukraine. Thanks, guys.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u7	Zupanin Andriy Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u8	It is reported that in order to establish a counter after trust, the consumer is obliged to enter into a contract for the maintenance of internal gas pipelines and gas equipment. In the event that the service is not performed, the consumer is liable to be disconnected from the gas networks. This report was received by an elderly woman in the Gitomir region, who called on me for help. Its case is not exceptional; thousands of consumers throughout Ukraine receive similar reports. The situation looks like this: a lie restricts the supply of gas under any given device, for example, a test of the state of the pipeline to the customer's network. Further, a contract for the maintenance of consumer networks in its territory is required to restore gas supply. What are the conditions offered to the consumer? Overview of the technical condition of overland gas networks, attention, bypassing 211 bracelets, technical service of lock-in devices – 264 bracelets, technical service of a heating boiler – 595 bracelets. Well, to be sure, the lie is always ready to tell you who can get these services. A unilateral rejection of a treaty is not permitted. In this way, the monopoly imposes on consumers services that are difficult to verify, and yet pay for which is quite real. In the Kyiv region, it could be several thousand dollars. How did we find ourselves in this situation? The sources of this problem have been determined that the owners of internal gas pipelines can choose their own service provider. Accordingly, the fees for such services were collected from the gas distribution tariff. Regrettably, a significant part of consumers did not make a contract for internal gas networks, but the requirement for their installation remained. It was as if a good and progressive idea allowed liars to blackmail consumers. What are we planning to do? Well, first of all, we're actively communicating with the Commission on Energy and Utilities, which is aware of this problem, because it's starting to get more and more reports of baseless disconnection from gas supply. In general, it seems to me that the consumer's right to choose a provider of services for internal gas networks should remain. However, the NCRE should approve the standard form of the service contract, as well as the marginal prices for such services, and the main point is that the population should be informed of the right to choose, not that someone can blackmail them and encourage them to enter into a contract. In addition, we plan to go to the Antimonopoly Committee to see if they abuse their monopoly, actually blackmailing people into making similar agreements. We'll keep you posted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u9	Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, yesterday the State Committee of Statistics announced an extremely dangerous figure. In the first half of the 21st year, 132 thousand 595 children were born in Ukraine. In keeping with this dynamic, and it will only get worse, as the situation shows, there will be no more than 260,000 children born during the 21st year. This is the worst birth rate in 30 years of independence. It's an anti-record that society has given and responded to this loud celebration of the 30th anniversary of independence of Ukraine. Because it is the birth and willingness to have a child that is the most integrated and honest indicator of the social sense of the population for Ukraine. I will remind my distinguished colleagues that the figure of 260 is half the size since 2013 because between 2009 and 2013, more than 500,000 children were born in Ukraine. Now there are different comments about why this is happening, different arguments. But the truth is that the decisions about the birth of children are made by Ukrainian citizens, not by fairy tales of success in socio-economic politics, but by what happens around them, by future parents or parents of another child. Reforms, pseudo-reforms of the last seven years, or examples such as the distance from the village to the nearest maternity home as a result of these reforms, are now up to 100 km away. Does the absence of social services affect such decisions? It's working. Substituting social policy with social inspection, lack of employment opportunities, getting extra, post-marital payments -- all of this affects citizens' decisions today. Are the so-called "Baby Package" or "Municipal Nanny" effective? Why does birth continue to decline? This is also a contribution to the so - called deinstitutionalization reform when banning principles have limited the rights of parents. This is the response of society to all pseudoreforms of the last seven years in Ukraine. Substituting real demographic family policies with fairy-tale measures, such as the creation of a National Service, whose basic function is inspection, not protection and assistance, also undermines national social, family and child policies. So I am addressing the National Deputies, considering the renewal of the Central Authority for Family and Children in Ukraine. To consider and develop an effective state policy, built not in the west, but in real actions to protect the family and the child.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u11	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! On behalf of the faction, I want to make a statement that we will not be participating in today's non-recurrent session. You first have to separate yourself because the Ambassador of Ukraine in the United States, Mrs. Markarov, denies the adoption of a partnership decision. So decide first who's the bigger crowd of you and then go somewhere. I also want to speak on behalf of the faction, colleagues, to all of us. You know what happened in Bloody Rose is a tragedy: the city’s crooked head, Constantine Paulov, was killed. And we've been asked by the Crevice City Council to create a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the study and investigation of the circumstances of the death of Constantine Pavlov. We don't believe in suicide. We are for the truth to be learned by the national deputies of Ukraine, by the Ukrainian community and, of course, by the people of the famous city of Krivi Rig. I would like to remind you, fellow dignitaries, that Constantine Pavlov is not only the elected head of the Horn of Curve, he is our colleague of the national deputy of the seventh and eighth vocations. I am absolutely convinced that we will unite in a desire to learn the truth and only the truth out of respect for our colleague’s memory. I don't believe he's gone out of his life that way. We need to do everything objectively to find out beyond politics what really happened. This is primarily respect for his family, respect for the Horn of Creature, respect for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, whose national deputy he was, once again, in the seventh and eighth vocations. Convinced that this special commission of inquiry that will be created by us will be objective, bringing us together in the desire to find the real truth about the terrible tragedy that has taken place with our colleague. I hope that the draft decision that will be registered will be processed quickly. You'll give your nominations, and we'll be able to find out what's really going on with the authorities. The memory of Constantine is bright. Dear colleagues, this is about our colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u13	Thank you. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u15	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u16	Dear Ukrainians, today, CNN's resonant material has come out, confirming the breakdown of the operation of the "vagants" that was to enter the Ukrainian Special Services Gold Fund, which was joined by NATO countries, particularly the United States Special Services. This is the information that "European Solidarity" published in the session room a year ago, demanding the creation of a temporary investigation commission because of the betrayal of our special forces in the highest offices of the Bank. I want to remind you that the private army of Wagnerians is essentially Putin's army, because in the Russian Federation, even in the Jackies, they're assigned to the Kremlin, well, and all serial killers are exactly there under the FSB pen, and they're committing their terrible crimes on Donbas, including the MN17 bombing, solely from Putin's sanctions. And now that there is a tribunal in The Hague for the defeat of MN17, the Ukrainian authorities have subversively played Putina when Cemah, one of the main witnesses, turned over the complete information to Lukashenko about the 33 murderers who were to be detained in Ukraine and who would be witnesses to Putin's crimes. Let me remind you that Bankova, her dumpsters and all the "servants" have been telling us for a year that there was no surgery. Then they began to tell us what was going on, but we didn’t tear it apart. Then the Green Oligarchic Canal appeared with respect when he admitted that he was the one who had told Lukashenko all the details of the operation. We expect that by the end of the month there will be a text version of Bellingcat's investigation into this crime. But I would like to remind you that right now, investigator Christo Grosev is stressing that the Ukrainian authorities have given up any comment, because Zelensky's interview gives only trained shishka journalists, more loyally, to oligarchic propagandists, and never speaks to independent journalists. In fact, the operation with Chaus involving Ukrainian security forces, which was forced by Bank's disgrace and in a neighbouring friendly state to kidnap a corrupter in order to get him out of the trunk of a car belonging to the GRU, is a continuation of the operation with the "wagers" in order to distract him. And we insist that you stop playing with this stuff, all of your TSC-fed, fed up, and created the TSC by "vagants," because this is the betrayal of our special services, this is the betrayal of our army by the Supreme Commander and his graves.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u17	Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u18	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear citizens of Ukraine, I address you. Thirteen months of this power lying to us, 13 months of telling us that there was no special operation for the "vaganro" delay. Well, she wasn't there and that's it, you know. Thirteen months ago, I was the first national MP to report it on my internet channel. By the way, sign to know everything that's going on, the truth. And for 13 months, they told us, no, no, that's not true. They all came out: the heads, their deputies, the heads of the President's Office, the head, Zelensky. Everyone was saying the same thing: there was no surgery, nothing to talk about, forget it. And here's yesterday's story of CNN, which tells us about the special operation on "vagants," that it was an operation on Ukrainian intelligence. In May, Zelensky was baptized and said that if there was an operation, it was not our operation. How can you give up your own officers?Oh, my God! Instead of saying "thank you" to the Ukrainian intelligence services, "thank you" to the honest colleagues of the U.S.S.A., G.R., the prosecutors who handled the case washed their hands instead, as if to anything in Ukraine. And here's the answer: It was a U.S. intelligence operation. And why are they hiding this from us for 13 months? And because someone in the immediate vicinity of Greens is pouring it all down, and he, I understand, knows who. Therefore, I would like to quote article 66 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine: "Conventions That Humble Punishment": When it comes to sentencing, circumstances that soften it are acknowledged: appearance with confession, sincere repentance or active promotion of crime. Mr. Andry Borisovich Jermak, please note this article. It's time to give up. Go, repent, and you will be counted. Because there's nowhere else to lie. Bellingcat and others are now under investigation. And even though you didn't think you could open up the TSC to the Supreme Council, you could hide it, but the big world, and not only in Ukraine, can people learn the truth. The whole truth will be known. So repent today and give up on your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u19	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u20	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! A week ago, we started a new school year. We started a school year, which is actually the third year, which will somehow be affected by quarantine restrictions. For the third year, our children are learning in part remotely, in part online. Similarly, there is a part of children who in principle miss part of the education because they do not have an adequately organized learning process. Unfortunately, in a year and a half that we are living in a pandemic, the government has not taken adequate measures to support Ukrainian educators, Ukrainian schoolchildren, Ukrainian students to help them prepare and adequately work and learn under these difficult, unusual, unusual conditions. We know that the government has not made a penny to help Ukrainian educationers prepare for teaching remotely. As a result, much of the Ukrainian children were taught very often in a formal way. We all know very well that some of the children were taught when their teachers sent them, at best, a list of homework to be done by the end of the fourth. Adequate testing of these educational results was not the same. And it has to be admitted that most of all, children from the poorest families were affected, children from remote villages were affected, where there was no internet at all to learn remotely. We have to admit that the last five and a half years have been very difficult. We have to admit that we cannot just walk into a new school year and pretend that nothing has happened before. We can't start teaching children a new school year until we've assessed the extent of educational losses that have taken place over the last five and a half years. That's why I'm registering a draft decree to conduct research into the educational losses that Ukrainian schoolchildren have suffered. We need to understand that the children have lost. Because everyone understands that if children didn't learn at least a month of mathematics, then the next few years at school won't be able to master this subject in principle. And it's going to be a disaster that's going to be a very difficult situation where in Ukraine a third of children don't know math at the base level. Guys, we have to do this, we have to estimate the scale of the loss. And we have to use money for the purpose of raising money to help children who have lost their distance-format education lose their ability to acquire adequate education. I look forward very much to the support of the Committee on Education, and I look forward to supporting the Committee on Budgets in this regard in order to ensure our children's right to receive adequate education and to help them overcome the problems they have faced in the last and a half years in remote learning. Thank you for your attention and look forward to supporting this initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u21	The final performance is Puškarenko Arseniy Mihajlovich. Then let's get to work. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u22	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The Big Building President's programme is to rebuild and create an infrastructure that has not been in Ukraine for the last 30 years. When we talk about road construction today, the 1st bracelet we put in the road is the 1st bracelet of 60 copies of the return to the economy. This is the logistics that investors need today to create new businesses and jobs. But roads are not just asphalt, markings and sidewalks, the road is the artery of our country. Because the school bus that takes the kids to school, or the ambulance that brings the patient to the hospital, is going this way because the roads are our arteries. Where does a school bus or ambulance go today? Today, school buses go to new schools that are being reconstructed throughout the country. During the past year, the President's Big Construction programme across Ukraine was implemented, capitalized, or constructed, over 100 schools. Similarly, in this year almost 100 schools will be put into operation in the same way and, in the example of Olewsk, the Zitomir region that I care for, 30 years, we were unable to reconstruct the gymnasium and we did it in a year. The same is true of kindergartens. So education infrastructure is one of the priorities and directions of the President's Grand Building programme today, because the state that doesn't build schools is building prisons. Where, then, is the swift one going on new roads today? She travels to more than 200 reception rooms throughout the country at the base of hospitals that support her. And today, we have tomogrees in hospitals, today we have modern X - rays, H.E.L.S., and much more. This is the medical equipment that one more, two, three years ago our citizens were to go either to the district center or to the capital. Today, all communities are covered throughout the country by a network of support hospitals, and people have access to the reception facilities within an hour. These are the new ambulances that our team is opening in the country today. And these are, in fact, modern outpatients with housing, equipment, and a new car for our rural medicine. It's also part of Big Construction. And sports infrastructure. We were all proud that our colleague Jean Belenjuk and our other Olympics had won medals. So today, it's important that infrastructure is being built up in every community. And the President's Big Construction program, and these are stadiums, swimming pools, sports complexes all over the country today. Last year - 100 objects, this year - 100 objects, next year - 100 objects of sports infrastructure are being constructed throughout the country. So in order for decentralization to take place, the Great Building is called upon to make each community feel self-sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u23	Let's get to work. Invite the national deputies to the hall. You are invited to consider the draft Water User Organizations Act and to stimulate hydrotechnical land melioration, 5202-d (re-reading). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:39:33]] For 217 Decision taken. Head of the committee, Mikola Tarasovich. Mikola Tarasovich, you are informed that the committee is requesting a second reading in accordance with article 116. Please note what kind of suggestions you're asking for for second reading after 116th, because I don't see that in the committee's decision. The chairman of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Solski Mikola Tarasovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u24	If you'll excuse me, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u25	Turn on four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, in the 1990 ’ s, hydrotechnical melioration was carried out on nearly 2.3 million acres [2.3 million ha] of land. So far, the amount of land that is actually irrigated has decreased by more than 70 percent. It is evident that the southern and eastern areas suffer the most from droughts: Odessa, Hersonska, Mikolaiivska, Zaporizka, Donetsk, Lugansk, Kharkivska, Dnipropetrovska Appropriately, agriculture in these areas is most in need of irrigation. The amount of investment needed to start irrigation per hectare of land is about $3,000. Thus, about $3 million is needed to irrigate a thousand hectares of land. At the same time, the cost of building and equipping the pumping station itself is slightly less than 1 million. In turn, some 4 to 5 billion investments are needed just to restore the former amount of irrigation. Agrarians are willing to take part in and make appropriate investments to reduce the cost of water and increase the amount of irrigation. The key idea of Bill 5202-d is to transfer the meliorate systems of the lower level to the organization of water users without the right of command, i.e. the agrarians themselves. The meliorateive lower-level systems include internal and inter-economic networks that deliver water directly to fields and other hydrotechnical auxiliary facilities, as well as pumping stations that take water from highways or distribution channels and provide an internal inter-economic network. In order to implement the decision of the Supreme Council, the bill was further elaborated on the committee for the re-reading. During the drafting of the bill, part of GNEU’s comments and proposals were taken into account. The bill proposes, inter alia, to establish the legal status of the water user organisation, to regulate the procedure for the creation and acquisition of rights of water users to meliorated infrastructure objects. Secondly, to consolidate positions aimed at simplifying administrative procedures for the construction and operation of meliority networks and their individual objects. Thirdly, to allow the privatisation of pump stations which have not been used for at least 10 years and for which no KLA has made a claim in two years after the adoption of the law for the ownership of the meliorrhial system, which consists of a pump station. Fourthly, to amend legislation that provides preconditions for water users to receive and invest in a melioration system, namely, to include information on the meliorate system, its individual constituents and land areas on which the network can provide the land; to include information on the rights of the meliorate network and its individual components in the register of goods rights on immovable property. The bill also provides a model for the distribution of votes needed to balance interests between owners (users) of small plots and owners (users) of large plots of land, which consists of double voting on each issue. What does that mean? That, on each issue, the number of votes voted on for the first time in proportion to the number of farmed land, the second, one, one, one. The bill is supported and developed with the participation of international organizations, the Minagropolitics, the Mindocyls, and professional associations. Letters of support were sent: The All-Ukrainian Agrarian Forum, the All-Ukrainian Agrarian Council, the Association of Ukrainian Rices, the Association of Water Users, the Ukrainian Agricultural Business Club, the Ukrainian Potato Producers Association, the All-Ukrainian Society Association, the All-Ukrainian Farmers' Congress, the Association of Farmers and Private Owners of South Ukraine, as well as the Herson District Council, the Odessa and Mikolaiiv Regional Administrations. In view of the above, I recommend and ask the Supreme Council for its consideration in the first reading to adopt the bill as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u27	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u28	The word is given to the People's Deputy of Pipi Natalia Romanovni, the faction of the Political Party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u29	Tzabal Volodymir, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u30	Who? I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u31	Cabal Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u32	Please give me your word. Cabal Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, during independence, the area of dry grill in Ukraine has increased by 60 percent, and our fields are drying up. Why is this happening? Because the irrigation infrastructure, the meliorative infrastructure of this time has been going on because the state was an inefficient manager of this infrastructure. Now let's think about who's most interested in developing this infrastructure so that our fields are flooded. These are, of course, the owners of this infrastructure. What does this law offer? This law offers a similar approach to OSBB, as it does to apartments when there were old Jacks who did nothing, and when the OSBB was created, owners did their own housework. By the same analogy, he proposes to transfer the lower level of meliorational infrastructure to water users, who are really interested in the development of this infrastructure. This law will allow increased investment in this infrastructure, increase agricultural efficiency, reduce government spending, and prevent our land from being degraded. So, colleagues, we are discussing this law for the third time in the first reading. This law has already been very well worked out and all matters relating to the voting rights of owners with different lands. I urge everyone, let's support this law, let's not let the Ukrainian fields dry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u34	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The aim of this bill is to actually launch a mechanism in Ukraine to create a water user organisation that will improve the efficiency of the use of melioration systems and allow additional investments in the modernization of these systems across the country. The bill is particularly important for southern agrarians who have been suffering from drought for the second year in a row. The adoption of this bill will help to increase the land area on which hydrotechnological melioration is applied, reduce the cost of water and dry land. The important position of the project is also that objects of a meliorate network that are state - owned, municipal, or free of charge are transferred to the CCA, whose territory of service coincides with the territory of service of the relevant network to be owned by its appeal. And in addition, let's be honest, this bill proposes a model for the organisation of the water supply of the KLA, which has already proven its usefulness and effectiveness in the practice of many countries around the world. I would like to point out right now that many comments from middle and small farmers have been taken into account during the drafting of this bill, and this is a very positive moment. That's why today "European Solidarity" will support this bill. Those observations that still exist may, in our view, be taken into account in the second reading. So I urge everyone not to shorten the deadline today, because the bill is very important. And to the second reading, if there's a quality of observation, take them into account and accept it as soon as possible in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u36	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Labazuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u37	Labazuk Sergey, Hmělniččina. Dear colleagues, what are we discussing today? Our melioration systems are not simply destroyed, and they are virtually nonexistent today. Clearly, we need this bill, not just to unlock and accept, but to stimulate it urgently, so that business can create a melioration at a time when climate change is changing, and we have more and more droughts every year, and our farmers are suffering from it. When there was a discussion in the hall, we had to remember how last year there was a discussion on the agrarian committee, including in the session hall about whether to allocate or not to assist the southern agrarians who had lost their crops. Finally, this year we have allocated hundreds of millions of dollars for grants. So, do we want to solve the problem by donation every year? I believe that the amended Bill 5202 removes the technical inaccuracies that have actually taken place. And the law today is brought into line with the Water Code, which, in principle, allows water users to be organized to balance their capabilities and to work. As for the question of whether to hand over the station to private hands or again to the water user organization, the question is, I think, completely uncontroversial. Because if we leave to the state property what's destroyed, it's going to stay that way, and it's not going to be able to be. Today, go to the holding facility’s website and look at the status of these stations. So clearly this bill needs to be adopted, and between the first and the second readings we will be able to introduce a number of norms that will balance and improve the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u38	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u39	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, the problem of irrigation is really a problem that needs to be solved. And it is important to us that the government has finally begun to deal with these issues, and the issue of irrigation today is at the heart of the minister's activities. But what should be the goals? The first goal is to increase the area. Please tell me if it's worth talking about increasing the area when it's not clear what economic indicators are going to be in this area. I'm talking about electrical connections. Does this law provide for the facilitation of electrical connections or transfer mechanisms, such as the first class of such connections, which is as simplified as possible for those who want to invest? This affects economic performance. What about the cost of electricity? Colleagues, does this affect economic performance? It's working. Didn't the agrarian committee support the cost of electricity directly in Ukraine's budget, what I was talking about and insisting on? Why didn't this happen? Colleagues, that means there's not going to be an increase in the area. The other one. Improvements and decreases in electricity prices too. Next. Improved management. Yes, I am for creating a pool of water users, but I am for the big ones not to squeeze out the small ones. And when the committee head says that there is a first level, the second level, that's the main thing: decision-making is enough for 50 percent of the votes. That's why, colleagues, it's so urgent to fight the raiding and help those people from the Novoselick S.H.I.E.L.D. who are standing next to the Supreme Council. And that's also a priority. So let us not build double standards, but really develop irrigation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u40	Thank you. The motive is Kulinich. I see. And then we move on. Three more speeches with motives, and then we go to the vote. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u41	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Indeed, the bill is very important because we have huge problems with drought in the south of the country, we have a huge number of appeals from agrarians, and that is why we have to solve this in some way. But the bill has a number of comments before it, and I'd like to hear them. First, registering the system is offered in cadastre, which is incorrect in terms of legislation and breaks the existing system. Secondly, it is appropriate to add a rule in the bill that the CCS cannot be reorganized into a legal person of another legal form. There is a question of how the right to a melioration system will be registered in the register of rights. But nevertheless, we will support the bill by a group in the first reading with a mandatory second reading, so that all of these negative moments are removed and the bill becomes the law that will work for the agrarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u42	Tarasov Oleg Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u43	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to elaborate on some of the myths that were about the KLA. So far, the first myth is that melioration systems can be transferred to private property -- no, that's not true, because systems. If the KLA is not created, these systems are going back to state ownership, first. In addition to those systems that have not worked for 10 years, or have not been created by the ECJ for two years since the adoption of the law. The amended bill already includes all the safety nets that could have existed. In no way does this law address environmental issues. A number of government meetings were held with representatives of the southern regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u44	Thank you. Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u45	Anatoly Burmich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear colleagues, it's not reform, it's another pseudoreform that will lead to higher water prices for those using water, nadrama. And today, there are two structures that the Water Agency, the Melioration and Fisheries Agency have the same functions that these functions have to perform. A private structure is being created at a public expense that will set its prices from the ceiling, and we will receive high water tariffs for the resources that belong to the people of Ukraine. And that's not going to make it any better. I'm just going to make the work of farmers and industrial enterprises worse. It's not reform. This is a pseudo-reform designed to rob the Ukrainian people further. This cannot be supported, and we will not be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u46	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Water User Organization Act and the promotion of hydrotechnical land melioration (registration number 5202-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:58:27]] For 312 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Jasca Elizabeth of Alexandria
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u47	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like two minutes of your attention. Because I'm going to talk about Donbas. Today, 78 years ago, on this date, Donbas was freed from the invaders. But those invaders were Nazis. And today we have the slave Donbas again, but the invader is Russia. And to see the once free Donbas, I want to ask you all, aren't we the victims of Soviet propaganda and myths? Do we know the story of the true Donbas? Did you know that most Donbasian enterprises have European roots? We are told that Russia has always had interests and has built businesses there. But in the 20th century, most of Donbas' businesses were built by British, German, Belgian, American. We're told there's always been a Russian people. What about the Greeks, the Serbs, the Tatars, the Poles, the Ukrainians, yes, the Russians, who always lived there for centuries. If we want to restore history, let us keep it in mind. The Donetsk and Lugansk regions are and will be Ukrainian. But to do so, we need to remember that we always have two accounts, two occupations, but unfortunately, only one deliverance. Let us return our true free Donbas, but to that end we will remember and know the true story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u48	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Law on the Guarantee of Property Rights for Real Estate that will be built in the future. — Registration No. 5091. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:01:07]] For 252 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Oléna Alexiyevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u49	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! To your consideration, a bill is now presented, which is a huge work by our colleagues, Francis Igor Pavlovich, and the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Regional Development. And I think this bill is going to put an end to a lot of black things that are being done by dishonest builders. With the approval of this bill, it is only possible to sell apartments after each apartment is registered in the appropriate register of the Ministry of Justice. No more doubles and triples. No more sales in illegal buildings. And it seems to me that right now we can put a dot on how to solve the problems of thousands of long buildings all over the country. In order to put a dot so there's no Arkady so there's no Ukrabud, there's no Vojcikhovsky's houses. Once this bill is passed, the builder will have a portion that he can only sell after the building is built, and this is exactly what will protect investors from having financial difficulties with the developer. And now I want to look to my colleagues in Parliament, who sometimes support unkind builders who can carry on scandalous and detailed plans of areas that can build green areas that can build in squabbles that can build up on the banks of lakes and rivers. I'd like to ask you to return face to face with the people who invest each year in the acquisition of their first apartments in the real estate market, please support people by adopting this bill, not unkind builders. Please support 5091. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u50	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and Stryharski Andri Petrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u51	Good afternoon, chairman! Good afternoon, national deputies! The draft Law on the Guarantee of Property Rights for Construction Objects to Be Built in the Future (Registration No. 5091) was considered by the Committee of Public Authorities, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and Urbanization (June 2, 2021). The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has reviewed the bill and the bill has some observations. But the notes, we can remove them between the first and the second readings. As a result of the general discussion, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft outcome of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. The Committee also decided to ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to declare, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules, that proposals and amendments should be made to correct clarifications, to remove errors and/or contradictions in the text of the bill, other structural parts of the bill, other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading and correspond to the subject of legal regulation of the bill. My dear colleagues, this bill, I repeat, is really of a huge right character in construction, which will provide future investors with transparency in the purchase of real estate. The purchase of real estate will take place only after the building permit has been obtained. This will ensure that investors of the future do not face any obstacles, traps, schemes of builders. Therefore, we fight only for honesty, justice, and right builders. So please support this bill. And thank you all. I'm hoping for backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u52	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u53	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u54	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u55	Roman Lozinski. So it happened that in Ukraine, as soon as our residents raise a certain amount of money, they invest in real estate, in apartments. Because this is the most understandable way to invest your $10, $20, $30, or $40,000. But very often for these people, it's all the money they have. Very often for these people it is a matter of life, a step in life, that is really important. Therefore, it is vital that we protect these people. If we're talking specifically about this bill, we see that among the biggest benefits is that it's impossible to resell what's called a double sale. It's when you're buying an apartment, and an evil builder, an unscrupulous builder, then sells this apartment for the second time. And these people who have spent their entire lives collecting these costs, these 10, 20, 30, 40 thousand dollars, they're losing them. And that is clearly the advantage of this bill. But at the same time, I would like each of us, every parliamentarian, to do a very big job before the second reading of this bill, because it's about the rights of things to an object that hasn't yet been built. This is about an object that is not yet there. And if, for example, construction is stopped for one reason or another, questions need to be asked: What authority and rights will the local self - government authorities have, what rights will other regulators have if construction is to be stopped? The building is not there yet, and the apartment is already legal, and the apartments are already on paper. So, honourable colleagues, this bill has a good idea, people need to be protected, their investments, their cost of spending their whole lives and investing in apartments, certainly need to be protected. But our job is to make sure that the second reading doesn't allow any other abuse if the innkeeper suddenly turns out to be inhospitable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u56	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Head, I give the floor to Sauras Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u58	Savrasov Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one of the main ideas of the project is that it introduces the concept of "special property right to an unfinished building object" into a future object of real estate. The type of property right to an unfinished building is understood as a future object of real estate, which is the possession and management of such an object by its will, irrespective of the will of others, unless otherwise determined by law, and arises after obtaining the right to do construction work. But not before the state registration of such a right, and it stops after the completion of the construction of the facility. But not before the state registration of ownership of the property of an item of immovable property. So the law is very interesting, very useful. And I think we're going to support it on the basis of further work on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u60	Larin Sergey Mikolaiovich. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u61	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. This bill is just an example of how it can really help our citizens protect their rights, in this case property. And I hope that this bill will just demonstrate responsibility and unite the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I've just heard very beautiful words about Donbas, and they've all excited us. How does it happen that our boys are dying on the line to this day? Why settle the conflict on Donbassa after the promise of a year and, regrettably, the visa and now there? What's more, General Naev, who, once again, I emphasize the political views of which I do not distribute, but he called for respect in the military, and when he had the least of our soldiers killed during the confrontation, he protected every soldier. And for that he was loved and respected. We've taken a rather competent, more specifically, the authorities have taken a rather competent head of Genstab Homczak. Now, now we see that the new Chief of Staff says, as Helletius said in his time, that he would go on a tank in the Red Square. The Helette promised us a parade in Sevastopol in the 14th year, which ended in Ilovaysk. I demand that responsible commanders think about the lives of soldiers because they pay for every word. And to Chief Genstab, General Handsome, I would like to remind you that all tanks are in his direct order. You want to go to Red Square, sit on a tank and ride. And boasting and covering up for the patriotic rhetoric is not like the head of the General Staff. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u62	Thank you. Aresonkov. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. After that, the Speedman, after that, Francis, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u63	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Trust MP thinks the bill is extremely important, it's about people, it's about people, it's about protecting and protecting citizens. Tell me, is it an important topic for the state: many thousands of fraudulent investors, who for years, by investing their money, perhaps the last, perhaps by borrowing it, cannot count on getting a place on time, or this apartment has been resold, and so on. So this bill, which is going to completely destroy the building pyramids that will limit the risks of investors in the real estate market and reduce the risks to the participating banks, is extremely important. I want to remind investors that they get the opportunity to have full information about all the stages of construction, the availability of the customer's right to do the work, and so forth. The Trust MPs will vote and support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u64	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, thousands of people have been deceived by unscrupulous builders when people have invested their last money to buy a place they have never seen. This bill will solve the situation a little bit. It must be maintained, as a mandatory national registration of property rights for unfinished construction is established. This is the solution to the real problem of the reselling of buildings that have not yet been built, but we need to work on the issue of insurance if the construction is not completed and the object is not put into service. I think between the first and the second readings we can add that. And now I call on everyone to support this bill. And the parliamentary group "For the Future" is voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u66	Fries Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u67	Congratulations, fellows of honor! I'd like you to take this bill very seriously. Listen to me carefully. For the first time in our law and law, we introduce the concept of a special property right to real estate that is subject to national registration. From now on, our people, investors in real estate, in apartments, can sell this special property right, they can transfer it to a mortgage. This property will be subject to the burden of prohibition and mortgages. We'll make sure that the same apartment is sold in different hands. I ask you to take this bill carefully and guarantee our citizens their right to own it, and to support this bill by pressing the green "Z" button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u68	Let's go to the vote. Take your seats and prepare for the vote, please. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Guarantee of Real Estate Rights, which will be built in the future. — Registration No. 5091. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:16:06]] For 322 Decision taken. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u69	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear colleagues, I am now addressing you. Today in the daytime we have a draft of Decree 5497, which I am the author of. This is about the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international institutions for an absolutely brutal violation of international law, which is currently taking place in the occupied Russia of Crimea, on the occupied part of Donbas, when Russia is preparing to hold so-called elections to the so-called State Duma of the Russian Federation in Ukrainian territories, with the involvement of Ukrainian citizens. The thing is, this decision is very far away in the daytime, and it's clear that if it stays there, we're not going to get to it today. So I have a request for the leadership of the Supreme Council, all the way to the hall: we need to consider this decision today, or tomorrow. Because the elections in Russia will take place next Sunday and we will no longer be gathering, and there will be no sessions. And we really need to tell the world once again that Crimea is Ukraine, that what Russia is doing is an unprecedented violation of international law, that Russia is now not only in Crimea, but also in Donbas, involving hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens, handing out passports and involving them in elections. They've already driven them to a so-called referendum on Putin's royal powers, now she wants them through the online system of the Rostov region, to vote on them. So Russia is trying to use our territory again, our citizens, for their choices. The fact that elections in Russia in general are not an election is known to everyone, because even in PARJE, I can say that when they only heard that they could send me over as an overseer for these elections, there was a hysteric. They refused even observers, said they had COVID, you know. They have COVID, so they can't watch the election in Russia for the first time since 91. There's a totally brutal forgery in favor of the Emperor Putin. And they want to use Ukraine to do that. So I have a big request: Either today or tomorrow we must consider this determination as our word. And we have to be all alone here, except for those cans that don't vote. And once again, we're going to see the truth of who is who, and we're going to say who Putin is. And you know what bothers me? I don't see the Tsk on the Wagnerians, I don't see many other things. And I'm very worried right now that this decision isn't put in a long box. Are we going to look into Putin's eyes again? There's blood in the eyes, and that's all. So please support your friends, and we must vote on it this week. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u70	The next issue of the agenda is the draft Virtual Assets Act (registration number 3637). On the rostrum is invited the deputy head of the Committee on Digital Transformation of Montenegro Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, who's going to insist on the papers? Nikolainka and one confirmation check, that's what I understand. Don't rest. Nikolainka, 54 revisions are a three-minute replacement, and four amendments are put to the vote. Do I get it right? Sergey Volodymyrovich, please don't see Nikolaynka. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So really, as the author of 54 revisions, I want to pay attention to just a few moments, and then let the hall be defined. So "Paternality" won't support this law, because, I remind you, on the first reading, he's got barely 230 votes and it was the promise of the authors that he would be much more worked out. Nearly 500 axles were given, including less than half of them. All 54 of my amendments were rejected. Of course, I'm happy, like the whole country, that even Director Apple welcomes our digitalizers with success on the way, but that doesn't mean that we can send a bill to the Council that can't handle any criticism from experts, especially the financial sector. To make sure of this, it is sufficient to get a good look at the comments of our General Legal Office on the non-conformity of the draft with the Civil Code, and more than that, with several articles of the Constitution. That's not my opinion, that's the opinion of the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. This bill produces great confusion in terms and does not provide a legal definition of the nature of virtual assets. The bill does not specify what kind of assets are related to virtual assets: material, intangible, cash, or securities. It makes a complete balance in the organization of government regulation in the area of virtual asset turnover, because, given international practice, regulation of the procedures for the public supply of virtual assets should be carried out by financial market regulators and we have such a regulator in Ukraine, and we are strengthening its role today. And I'm surprised that my papers as the head of the financial instruments and derivatives trafficking committee weren't counted. They, the central authority of the executive branch, have the proper experience of regulating markets and should look for a position to avoid fraud. And it is this body today that is implementing this policy of the state. In doing so, we are invited by this law to create some new central executive bodies, one of which will ensure that state policy is formed in the area of virtual asset trafficking, and the other will implement this state policy. In doing so, it ignores the order by which the central authorities of the executive branch do not have the proper role of regulator. Therefore, the range of issues related to the regulation of virtual assets should be referred to the competence of financial regulators — Nitzbank and the National Commission of Papers and Stock Markets. In addition, the bill does not provide for the protection of the rights of investors, consumers and against the abuse of virtual assets in the market. I will request that four amendments be put to the vote and taken into account, which will at least correct the issue of the regulator. Thank you. And please consider and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u72	Three, four revisions. 289 Edit Nicolanca is on. Dear colleagues, today our guests, our colleagues from various parliaments of the world, are in the walls of the Supreme Council. They were present for a prayer breakfast today, and we are happy to welcome you. It is a pleasure to welcome friends of Ukraine to the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. [[Applause]] Edit 289, Nikolainka. I'll bet you a vote. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:20]] For-129 The decision is not taken. 300 lashes. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:42]] For 124 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 353 Committee revisions are not supported. Please identify and vote, 353rd. [[11:25:06]] For 122 The decision is not taken. And 372 committee revisions are not supported, nor is Nikolainka. It's on confirmation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:32]] For 133 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Gwarenecki, three minutes instead of the right. Then we go to the vote. One amendment, I know, is going to be supported, and then we vote in favour of the law as a whole. Gorgeous, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u73	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I welcome all of us! We went to this law a little bit less than seven years. And in the previous chamber, there were attempts to legalize this area, but they failed. And it took us two years to reconcile with all regulators, with all the steakholders, all the details. I want to follow up on these objections that are often heard as myths and in the media and in this room. With regard to regulators. Three regulators are foreseen. This is a special service, specialized in both financial and virtual assets. This is the National Bank, which is clearly prescribed in the law. And the Commission of Securities and Stock Markets. Moreover, this bill is officially supported by a letter of support from the Financial Monitoring Service of Ukraine, which states that if we don't pass this law, we are risking getting on to the FATF's list of "cheese" financial zones. And we urgently need to do this, because Ukraine cannot currently carry out effective financial monitoring. There's an official letter of support from the National Bank that even plans to launch a digital bracelet based on blockage technology that's already been tested in previous years, and they're ready to do so. So the bill takes into account the best advanced world experience, because only a few countries in the world have actually created some kind of legislation in this area, everybody knows: Germany, Luxembourg, Singapore And Ukraine will be among these five or ten leading countries in the field. So far in Ukraine, the daily circulation of virtual assets is 1 billion dollars, and this 1 billion is in the shade. All exchangers that change virtual assets, encrypt dollars or bracelets, are actually illegal. And these people are hiding, taking money in some suitcase, in their bags. International markets can't come to Ukraine, they can't serve in Ukrainian banks, banks lose resources, they lose liquidity. With no virtual asset transaction, no tax is paid in Ukraine, i.e. the entire billion dollars function outside the legal "white" economy. Virtual assets are not something we want to create from scratch, they exist in Ukraine for a long time, they exist in the world. The time has come for the Ukrainian legislation to create normal civilised conditions so that companies can register in Ukraine instead of going abroad, so that banks can get their finances, so that the budget can get their taxes, so entrepreneurs can get their equipment back in court, confiscated illegally, or their stolen virtual assets. So, guys, let's take this law. And then we have a big road, and we're going to need to make amendments to the Civil Code, and to the Tax Code. It will take almost a year for the branch to work. This is a huge first framework step.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u74	Thank you. Iron, a minute instead of right. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, many of the comments we hear have logic. Indeed, let's speak bluntly, the bitcoin is designed for that very purpose, and the other cryptocurrency is not controlled by the state. And this is what the whole world will face in the new century. But I think that this law is necessary, at least today, when on all the Internet publications that the world reads about Ukrainian Aythics, there's news that Ukraine has adopted the Bitcoin Act. And this emphasizes once again that Ukraine is a leading country, including the IT sector. I'm sure we'll go back to this law many times, it's a new branch, but it needs to be regulated, it needs to be regulated when a declaration is made, it needs to be regulated during circulation. But this is the first step that I think will not make it worse, but it will show that we are not the third country of the world, but we are the front and we are taking those modern challenges that are also in the financial sector. So I think we should vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u76	Thank you. It's a ferret.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u77	I'd like to place a 434 confirmation form. Let me explain very briefly why we have to fail it now. The point is that we have before us, as I said, a great way of amending both the Civil Code and the Tax Code. A task force is currently working on a profile committee, and there are civilians working to make complex changes to the Civil Code. And so since we have time before the entry into force of this framework bill on virtual assets, let's give our colleagues from the profile committee, along with Mincifre, together with the digital committee, to work on these changes and to adopt them separately. So I'm asking you to make this right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u78	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u79	Of course, we agree with the author, really, it's a separate issue that needs to be worked out. We want to raise questions about regulation in the code. So please do not support this exercise.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, you have heard the position and profile committee. Edit 434, it was counted, but thought changed, that's what I understand. Ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote, on the confirmation, number 434. Please identify and vote. [[11:31:48]] For-9 Regrettably, the remedy did not add up and was rejected. Let's go to the vote for the law. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Virtual Assets Act (registration number 3637). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:32:27]] For 276 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (with regard to the simultaneous transfer of rights to land in connection with the transfer of rights to the immovable property in question) (Registration No. 5248). It's a second reading. Is someone going to insist on the papers? How many bars? Alone? Then let's go to the table. Yvchenko. Don't insist. Fraud. Don't insist. Chess. Don't insist. Reverend, 6th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u81	Dmitry Alexanderovich, please, two minutes, I'll be on my way. Is 2 minutes possible?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u82	Two minutes instead of a straight line, right? Two minutes to the Reverend, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u83	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. By adopting an appropriate draft law, we take the right steps to meet citizens by facilitating bureaucratic processes related to the transformation of property. However, this draft law contains significant shortcomings, particularly in the excessive deregulation of the transition process. This can become a field of manipulation, for a lack of sufficient documentary security can simply mislead people by leaving them with nothing. I am not aware of the fact that in our country there is a raiding of land, falsification of property rights documents, and service negligence, which is the result of which people are suffering. A minimal example has taken place recently. My colleague, Alexander Sukhova, was approached by numerous residents of Lysicánsk, who indicated that coal was illegally obtained in one area of the city. When we arrived at the site, we simply stood in the foothills, since a whole range of tens of hectares was turned around. By extracting coal in such a barbaric way, Lugansk’s ecology is destroyed. This earth will never be fit for anything again. Were people allowed to do so? It's some sort of filtish litigation. Here's all the documents. The law enforcement agencies investigate criminal conduct, damage to the State is established. It's us that's in control. If the state fails to properly regulate the transition of rights to land in relation to the transfer of rights to immovable property, we will find ourselves in total chaos, black notaries will be able to take away any person's land in the form of the real estate sale that is on it. As national electors, we must approach all processes carefully, wisely, and with the benefit of the citizens. Dear colleagues, please support this bill, the Trust MP group, the entire Lugansk vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u84	Kovalov Aleksei Anatoliyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, this is really a bill that needs not only business, but ordinary citizens who will be protected from buying a building, building, housing and they will get a real land plot within the limits defined by the act of permanent use or ownership. I would also like to point out that this bill will also be useful for a little privatization, since it takes into account my position on the single property complex. Because when people purchase a single property complex for transparent privatization, they will also be subject to an act of continuous use. We see that many government objects are in neglected condition. And in fact, people (physical persons), builders (legal persons) will acquire this property just for further construction. And in fact they will be insured, and their right to land will be guaranteed, and it will be used for the purposes of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u86	Thank you. Next line 7, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u87	Dear National Deputies! "The Opposition Platform for Life," Mama. Please tell me a bill that is passed and becomes law must have some logic and legal certainty. This bill tells us that property rights go to an unbuilt house, to everything else and land from the owner who sells it. How can we sell underdevelopment or sell something when this is not in the register? This lack of design is recorded when more than 70 percent are built. The owner of an area that will sell a non - construction site located on a land plot sells two acts. One act at a time, except for state and municipal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u88	Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you 7 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:37:57]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Yvchenko, 12th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u89	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I was going to say that Fatherland has opened up anti-rider headquarters. You know that a lot of references from different areas today come directly to the kind of sort of sort of farming that's in the agrarian sphere. And I would ask Parliament that you and I respond clearly to the challenges that are coming today when we open up the market for land. I would like us to respond to the challenges that are coming today when we open the market for the earth. I'd like us to respond to those people who come to the Supreme Council, particularly the Novoselicki S.H.I.E.L.D., who are today fighting in the courts with the people who are directly in this room, in the Supreme Council Hall. Colleagues, forging the general congregation protocol, have been able to take thousands of acres [1,000 ha] of land. The same is true in other areas, coming directly from Zaporozky and from other areas. Let's also do this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u90	You don't insist anymore, do you? 14th Amendment, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u91	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that we have many legislative initiatives that speed up adoption, and they actually allow us to bring responsibility to those who are currently engaged in, for example, the registration of property rights. In our context, it is important in this law that the registrants have a clear understanding of that responsibility, if they are to illegally enter these registration books and do registration actions, responsibility must come. Only after being responsible will we be able to say clearly that we are protecting people who own property today, only then will we be able to tell investors clearly that their property rights will be protected. Let us increase the responsibility of those who have access to registers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u92	Don't you insist on voting? Don't insist, I see. Next up, Reverend, 17 revisions. Oh, it's all gone. Fuck, 22nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u93	Well, I want to point out that the previous speaker was paying attention to what the registrars weren't responding to. Indeed, there is no responsibility because they have the right to examine documents, not their responsibility. And something of the Supreme Council, well, it's very fruitful and it doesn't make any changes to these bills. As long as there is no obligation, there will be no responsibility. I would still like to continue my presentation on the previous page and say that, notice how many individuals, legal persons, bought objects of communal form of property, state ownership of objects themselves, land leases for their services included, which each year go, worship and continue. But why do we divide natural persons from legal persons, from forms of property: municipal, state, and other forms of property? Why do we make exceptions in the law? Where there's exclusion, there's corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u94	Thank you. Are you insisting on voting? I'll bet 22nd. The committee does not support this. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:14]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Twenty-five Mommies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u95	Reforms can be made for all, changes can be made for all subjects who use them, whose rights can be violated, and so on. But I'm turning to exclusion. If objects between natural persons and legal persons can be done, if objects belonging to municipal property and state property cannot be done. Please tell me, are we going to take further steps in this direction or not? If there are municipal and state property acquired on legal grounds, the authorities have done nothing to detect violations, document them, and hold them accountable, it is necessary not to block decisions, but to allow them to be used in both municipal and national forms. This will be true of the citizens of Ukraine, not of designated individuals.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u96	I'll bet you 25 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:43:44]] For-67 For -64. The decision is not taken. 28th Amendment, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, you can give the floor simply to the speaker or chairman of the committee in order to explain his position. What is the difference between natural and legal persons who are entitled to relief, and what do we do to help citizens in the form of taxes, tax evasion? How will this structure of the house and of the land take place? Will other tax codes be amended, and what is provided? And why are we depriving ourselves of similar situations if we take property that has a communal form of property, a state form of property? And that kind of thing has to be explained and taken the initiative or accepted by everyone the right to give or not to give.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u98	I'm betting on a vote of 28 Mama's. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:45:10]] For-69 The decision is not taken. 32 lacquers, Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u99	Thank God we're 32-way asking questions about renting land like this. But uncertainty in the law, it gives birth to either corruption or an untrue approach to the use of the law. You have to talk about rent anyway, you have to apply the minimum, maximum, and make changes to other articles and codes that exist and will regulate these relationships between natural, legal persons. There is no such change. Until such changes are made, they will be used as a disaster, and the reform will go through -- what we have is what we have. I'll have my amendment put to the vote. And yet, in the form of property, by objects, give the floor to an important committee manager.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u100	The position of the committee is followed by numerous appeals by the Mamka National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u101	Dear colleague, according to your rights, which are more of the same, and this is related to the sale of public or municipal property for the simultaneous transfer of land rights. I think they're good enough, I can tell you. But why is there an exception in this part? Because we have two different organs of government, municipal property, and land. We were communicating in this part, and they asked that this particular issue should not be dealt with in this law. Because of this, there were exceptions in this section. Representatives of the public authorities. This was not the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u102	I'll bet you 32 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:47:35]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line, Mama, 42nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u103	Dear Ukrainian people, have you heard the address of the chairman of the committee? Do you have any idea what someone, the national MPs, asked us not to do? These are unfaithful approaches to power. You need to do or not do. By conferring the right, assigning all objects and making decisions regarding the municipal and state forms of property. I request a 42-seat vote, which states that they are to allow the objects of state and municipal property to be granted the right to use land automatically, but with further changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u104	I'll bet 42 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:00]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Fifty-five Mommies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u105	Dear fellows, this is my last draft. I'd like to point out the quality of the laws and then the implementation of them. We need to talk about a complex approach in order to make use of this law by Ukrainian citizens, not foreigners. We still need to make complex changes. Why are they complex? What if that story is, you know, a house that's being sold, or a building that's not being built, is one deal that's taxed. The land that is sold — other taxes defined by the Tax Code — is bets on what the entities involved in the transaction pay for. How is this going to go through for the time being: to pay as taxes from one transaction, from two transactions, automatically, someone will not pay something – there is no explanation in the contracts. Others also need to be mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u106	55 redundancies. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:50:32]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. The proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, is based on the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (with regard to the simultaneous transfer of rights to land in connection with the transfer of rights to the immovable property in question) (Registration No. 5248). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:51:32]] For 301 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, we have seven minutes to take a break, and I think we'll start it a little early. Is there no objection? There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u107	Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, there was a request to make. of several even factions, there was a request to consider the draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international cooperation in connection with the illegal preparation of elections at the State Duma of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied A.R. Crime and Sevastopol and the participation of Ukrainian citizens from the occupied area of Donetsk and Lugansk. There is an offer to consider this issue now. Is there no objection? None. Please invite the national MPs, we need to vote on the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? I would like to vote on the proposal for a short-term motion for a draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international cooperation in connection with the illegal preparation of elections in the State Duma of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied AR Crimea and Sevastopol and the participation of Ukrainian citizens in the occupied part of the Donetské and Lugansk region (registration number 5497). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:34:14]] For 206 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Honcharenko Aleksyyyyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u108	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I want to thank you, fellows, for having us consider this issue now without delay, because it's really important to do it right now, before the election in the "state fool," that is, the State Duma of the Russian Federation. Because these elections are not just going to be held in their own territory, which is their right, although the choices are difficult to say, what they do is just an absolute brutal violation of all of which is the norms of democracy and simply the purpose of such a fighting word with King Putin. But it's their own business. Sadly, however, they also want to do so in Ukrainian territory, in Ukrainian Crimea, involving Ukrainian citizens of Crimea and Donbas. The point is that hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens are being handed out Russian passports, hundreds of thousands, and now they want to be added to the election to vote. By the way, they're putting out all kinds of Borodajev and all the other bad guys, all the different propagandists that they're sending to their parliament to continue brainwashing people, including in international organizations. And all of this they want to do, including with the voices of Ukrainians. This is a brutal violation of international law. This is a brutal violation of all the principles of international law, of course, of the Ukrainian Constitution. Moreover, they do all of this at a time when they destroy people in the Crimea. When Nariman Jellalov and other activists of the Majlis Crimean Tatar people are simply destroyed for their participation in the Crimean Platform and for Ukraine’s support. In these circumstances, our job with you is to say no. Crime is Ukraine. What Russia is doing right now is not an election, but a "state fool," or Duma, is illegal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss this matter. Please, two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u110	Network of Alexander Alexandrovich from the committee. Alexander Alexandrovich Netzko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, by the way, what Alexei Alexiyovich just said. I would like to add that, in fact, the elections in the State have already begun, and according to the latest information, they are being held in secret in the military. So this crime has already begun to be committed by Russia. The President-in-Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Honorary Fellows, is today proposing a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international cooperation in connection with the illegal preparation of elections in the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol and the participation in the voting of Ukrainian citizens from the temporarily occupied parts of the Donetsk and Lugansk region. The purpose of the bill is to approve the above-mentioned appeal by the Supreme Council, which condemns the unlawful actions of the Russian Federation regarding illegal preparations for the holding of elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation on 19 September 2021 in the temporarily occupied part of Ukraine and forcible passporting of Ukrainian citizens. These actions by Russia boldly violate the basic norms of international law. The holding of elections at the State Duma of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine is illegal and thus makes it impossible to recognize their results. The Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation at its meeting reviewed the bill and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and observations. So, dear colleagues, I urge you to support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u112	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich. Bobrowsky? Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u113	Samantha Bobrowski. Dear colleagues! Yesterday during my speech, I emphasized, and today I will also remind you that September 17-19 will be the election to the State Duma. But let me emphasize and remind you that on September 10th, huge large-scale studies will be launched, including the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus. These are things that the Ukrainian Parliament cannot keep quiet about, we have to talk about it and address it, particularly through the instrument of applications and regulations for international co-operation for at least a fixation of similar war crimes. But I would like to stress the following. In addition to the fact that in Crimea the Russian Federation has been transforming the last eight years directly into an ethnic makeup, settling there, as they have been doing classically for the last 100 years, citizens of the Russian Federation have been doing this in an unknown specialty, unknown from the depths and so forth, and they are pursuing the following policy: elections to the State Duma will go through with new names, including those that have a direct bearing on the armed formations of the so-called LNR and DNR. And what's more, this election will involve the former so-called head of the government of the DNR of Prilepin, and his friend will be taking part in Borodaj like that, and so on and so forth. Starting with the army soldiers who held their arms directly, ending with their so - called ministers of their so - called governments. It's a total hybridization that we get in similar people in the State Duma who, in principle, have no right to go legitimately or to be recognized in the territory. For us, this is going to be a huge question of what to do next, during the depopulation of these territories and further work with them. That's why it's definitely a yes. And let's see what happens on September 17-19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u114	No, it's not. Windstorm. Irina Volodymyrna's character. Batenko after.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, if you look at Russian television, there doesn't seem to be any election to the State -- there's a whole Ukraine, every day, a lot, with hatred. And it's understandable why there's no election campaign: because there really is no election. It's going to be assigned to the Kremlin of Derdum, and it's actually a totalitarian, authoritarian country, where there's no election for 25 years. But the scariest thing for the world is that the world doesn't notice it. Nor does he notice the disgraceful passport of the violent one that takes place on occupied Donbassa. And in fact, not only is it a violent passport to Crimea but it's a change in the demographic composition of Crimea. In fact, we were convinced that on the Crimea Platform, which we welcome, because today it is important to keep the topic of Crimea in the information field not only in Ukraine, but also in the whole world, the subject of this violent passporting and the failure to recognise these fair elections, which are being held in the Ukrainian territory of Putin and his Camarilia, will be one of the key topics. It is a pity that this subject, like, for example, the topic of blocking Ukrainian seafaring in the Azov Sea, was secondary in the Kerchen Strait as well as in the subject of the release of hostages. And that's why it's very important, and in this case, we thank our colleagues in large numbers that we are now considering a ruling that condemns the fair elections that the Russian Federation is running in the occupied parts of Ukraine. It's very important that this decision, my friends, should stop. united the hall not only by voting, but on all international venues. You and I have been informing our international partners about the non-recognition of elections to the State, which means the failure to recognize future Russian delegations in the inter-parliamentary assemblies and their credentials because they will be illegally elected to Crimea, on the occupied Donbassa citizens of Ukraine, who are now being forced by Russian passports. That's why we're here with you at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, NATO Parliamentary Assembly, in Paris.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u116	My ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u117	Igor Goose, MP for the Future, Volin. Dear friends, many of those who are watching our broadcast now will say to our fellow citizens: What is the purpose of the turnout, which were the tens and hundreds of them that gave it? There's a lot of skepticism. In fact, it does. Look at the result of the Crimea Platform. If the Russian Federation of Aggressor hadn't considered such an international very important and active history, there would not have been any opposition that Ukraine's Majlis patriots today in the territory of the Ukrainian Crimea, which we now have to support as much as possible on all possible scales. So in fact, the struggle against the invader, the aggressor, has to go on and on. We must keep the Russian Federation under constant pressure by our decisions, international politics, our armies, and so on. And very important, I hope that literally in a few minutes we'll show that in this room, when similar questions are raised, the pro-Ukrainian majority, and in fact all fact all factions, except for the "fifth column" sitting on the left side of the rostrum, they're united, they're jointly holding a stand against the invader, against the aggressor, against the enemy. Hence, those who say that it is not necessary to raise such questions on a regular basis are mistaken. Parliament must keep the Russian Occupational Federation under constant pressure. I'd like to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u118	Thank you. Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u119	Liza.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u120	Elizabeth Aleksyevna Yasko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u121	Colleagues, this draft decision is an example, it's really an example for all of us in Parliament to support, we have to show how alone we are in protecting free Crimea and free Donbas. What Russia wants to do now, and it's to come up with different methods: online involvement of representatives of the so-called LNRs and DNRs, including those who have been forced into Crimea is all a violation of international law. And while the world is now with the pandemic, the coven, in its affairs, in its problems, we must remind everyone that we cannot tolerate it. You know, on the Crimean platform, the leader of the Crimean Tatar people, Mustafa Djemiliev, said that "the jackals, the parasites will win until the real lions come out." It turned out to be a Crimean Tatar saying. And it seems to me that this should remind us that we have to maintain similar determinations, to turn to the world, and we have to be real lions when it comes to Ukraine, to free Ukraine with all parts. Thank you. We're backing it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u122	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Sobolev -- from motive, Bakunets -- then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, no doubt the "Fatherland" faction will support this text of the decree. We believe that it is timely enough because we have made such statements quite often since the illegal elections took place in the occupied territory. Now it's actually a warning to the world community, to organizations like the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and eventually to the United Nations Organization, that elections in the occupied territory, and more so in the Jesuit way that the invader does it when by email they are allowed to vote experimentally. This is a waste of confirmation that we do not recognize such elections, and we will insist that the entire international community supports the position of the Ukrainian Parliament. That's why we vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u124	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u125	Dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians, dear international partners of Ukraine! Today, from this high parliamentary rostrum, as we continue to carry on the progressive struggle against the invader, we are again and again pointing out that next week the aggressor will be conducting a dirty crime process of pseudobials. And worst of all, the occupation wants to involve Ukrainian citizens in this process. So today I urge the entire room to support this determination and to stand on our own and increasingly on the various stands and playgrounds to declare to the world community that we are fighting and will soon win the battle against the aggressor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u126	Thank you. All those who wanted to speak. Let's go to the vote. Take your seats, get ready to vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international co-operation in connection with the illegal preparation of elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied A.R. Crime and Sevastopol and the participation of Ukrainian citizens in the occupied part of the Donetsk and Lugansk region (registration No. 5497). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:50:33]] For 318 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Libraries and Library Affairs (Registration No. 5002). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:51:06]] For the 250. Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine Krawczuk Eugenia Mikhaylovna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, it's very nice that we've finally come to this bill, it's 5002 and it's amending the Library and Library Act. And just in time, because the law has been in force since 1995, the last changes were made in 2000. The country has changed dramatically. When we wrote it, we wanted to make the library a shared space for the entire family, where everyone could find an interesting time for themselves. And the drafting of the bill is the beginning of a very systematic work to inhale the modernity of the library system, including its digitization. The bill on customer-driven access to services improves the quality and accessibility of services. This is an update of terminology, for example, a new concept, such as a mobile library, a modern classification of libraries, an up - to - date function, economic incentives, and social guarantees for librarians. In particular, I want to emphasize the digital aspect that the library system needs very much today. It is the creation of a national electronic library and digitization of libraries, especially book sites, with wide access to them through electronic libraries. We've developed this bill with experts, with the library community that's watching us right now, it's very active, I thank them very much, along with the Ministry. And I invite you all to work for second reading to improve certain standards. It's very important that we set up safety nets against the chaotic closure of community libraries. The library can be dismantled only with the consent of the community, the consent of the Minkult (Ministry of Culture) and if this does not conflict with the national social standards of public libraries in Ukraine. And I would like to stress separately that in "Transitional Positions" to second reading, we also predict that children's libraries with legal status will not need to be re-registered. I'd like to support you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u128	Thank you, Eugene Mikhailna. I invite the co-rapporteur, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, National Deputy of Ukraine, Irina Miroslavovna Konstankevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, the need to reform the library industry has long matured. The challenges of decentralization, digitization, are the reading crisis, and we are driven by decisive action: to modernize the library system, to transform it and to activate it in general by updating legislation. The adoption of the bill will improve the management of relations in the library sphere, provide a legislative basis for the full functioning of the library system, create an effective mechanism for the realization of citizens' rights to equal and free access to information, and create a modern network of libraries. At a committee meeting, Ukrainian national deputies reviewed the bill and made a number of proposals for amendments and additions to the bill, all of which are concluded by the committee. In accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, the Committee notes that it may also be necessary to harmonize its provisions with those that were not considered in the first reading and to amend them in a comprehensive manner. According to a discussion by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Humanities and Information Policy, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the draft bill. Please support the committee's decision to vote on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the national deputy of the Black Dmitry Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u131	Please pass the word to Andrew Boblach.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u132	Andrew Boblach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u133	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Please support Bill 5002 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Libraries and Library. I mean, as a majority deputy, I get a lot of calls from librarians and librarians to help with repairs or upgrades of the library. By the way, at present 90 percent of the books that are in libraries are books that have been published since Soviet times. So this bill, it's going to give a new impetus, a new breathing for libraries. Let's do it together. Because we need to get people back to the libraries from the child to the elderly. They should receive quality services. And please, let's do 2021 in our libraries. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u134	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Honourable Sergey Anatoliyovich, the Deputy Group "Trust". Bilo lookout for Larissa Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, my lord, the honourable citizens of Ukraine! In almost every neighborhood we have in the districts, as majors we know, we have libraries and they do, really, very important humanitarian and social functions. But with each year, libraries are less and less satisfying the needs of the population. And really, they're losing their popularity. This is primarily due to the fact that we have a very outdated legislation that regulates their activities. So 26 years ago, the law was passed, and it was last updated only in 2000. Both the world and Ukraine have moved far forward in the last 20 years, but not our legislation. So it's time to change that. But today the libraries are registered in Acts and they are so lame with digital literacy. In particular, Winnitzina received 300 computers transferred to rural libraries, and this has resulted in many older and older people using both administrative and other services through the Internet and education. In fact, Bill 5002 is extremely important for the development of the sector. I've already been told by the reporter, Mrs. Eugenia Krawczuk, that it's very important that it's stated here that it's necessary to preserve the network of libraries, and only after the public discussion and agreement of the Ministry of Culture will it be possible to close it. And it also raises the question of the organisational aspects of ensuring that libraries interact with different networks and forms of property, and especially where digitization goes in book form. and create the National Electronic Library. Of course, there is still work to be done, and there are many observations, especially regarding wage discrimination. For some reason, only national libraries are being promoted. This needs to be resolved because the country’s librarians are working very hard and barely today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u136	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Lopushanski Andrija Jaroslavovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u137	I'd like to give you a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u138	Vladimir Vjatrović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u139	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The reading, bookkeeping, book distribution situation in Ukraine is indeed catastrophic. Russia’s destructive influence, the coronation lockdown, has led to the fact that the range and distribution of books are rapidly shrinking, and dozens of bookstores have closed. Most libraries today resemble more of the Old Maculature than modern cultural centers. Unlike other European neighbours, however, our authority does not increase but reduces the financing of the cultural sector. Ukrainians are less and less reading. This is a direct threat to intellectual degradation that can only be stopped by immediate and systemic steps in this direction. This bill is important and is one step towards modernizing the library network. We'll support him in the first reading. But until the second reading, it needs to be significantly strengthened, especially in the part of the guarantees of public funding of libraries, the possibilities for their economic activities, separate budget lines for filling library funds, the inadmissibility of reorganizing libraries for children. And by no means can we limit ourselves to this one law alone. I have a question: When will the government finally adopt a strategy for developing reading that was developed by the book institute and supported by the Ministry of Education and the Committee? When are we going to implement the hearing recommendations that took place in July on the humanitarian committee? First, to compensate bookstores for rent costs of 20 percent of the amount of sales of Ukrainian books. Second, buy 500 copies of each new Ukrainian book with 2,000 and more copies for libraries. Only these two tools will increase the range and distribution of books, the network of bookstores, and the volume of new books in libraries over the years. But to do so, you have to put a dot in the shameful policy of residual financing of culture, including the book industry. Either we show political will and we support our libraries, bookstores and publishing, or tomorrow's hypertrophyd cultural economy will lead us to the backs of the third world and the Russian world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u140	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Sowsun Inni Romanovni, the political party Voice, the faction Voice. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u141	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u142	Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u143	Samantha Bobrowski. Dear colleagues, of course, it's a bill that must support completely all factions, and it's long overdue. But when we talk about it, we should remember that it is a completely systemic thing that affects not only the libraries of rural, urban, municipal, national, national, but it touches the reader, the buyer, the library, and so on and so forth. What, of course, today are individual libraries trying to be center, hub and so forth, and so on, and I want to invite you on occasion to Odessa, to see, in particular, pride, this is my project, the Library of Gruszewski on the street of Trootic and how in five years the library has become a hub of utility and accessible to all. Of course, that is what we dream of in every city, village, and village. But I would suggest to the MPs that I take responsibility for three months, for example, or bring them to the libraries of my districts every year, or bring them to the libraries of the east. That's what volunteers do a long time ago, and it doesn't matter. Because culture is a huge front, and it all starts with a book. Bringing these new books to enable a person to come, whether the military could come in part, and use the book, brothers, and read. Moreover, we should pay attention to the book study, the problem of publication. Because Ukrainian bookkeeping is not able to maintain its balance and satisfy the entire book market in terms of financial resources and with a small, indeed, residual value. And the last. This is, of course, a stop to all illegal prefaces and printing of Russian books that actually deamp and infuse the entire library and book space that is accessible and much cheaper to buy. So this is a much broader and more complex problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u144	Thank you. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Irina Miroslavna i. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will support in the first reading a good progressive current law, because there has been reform in the spirit realm. For the second reading, we will definitely make two adjustments. First amendment. Friends, let us not be wicked; our forerunners, who wrote the basic law, did not dare to privatize the spiritual realm. We clean up this standard and write fuses that look like a card house against a tank. Friends, the spiritual realm cannot be privatized. This is our spiritual weapon. And second. Dear colleagues, we write shyly for the money of librarians. Let's write a straight rule, as we wrote here for "ducks," "smacks" and other hundreds of thousands. Let's write it in Transitional Positions: one and a half times the pay to librarians. Just as Julia Timoshenko did in her government, without waiting for any laws, no instructions from the Supreme Council. Such two adjustments will be prepared for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u146	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the Future Group, of course, will support this bill, because this is really the beginning of a systematic modernization of libraries. But before everything my colleagues have said, I want to point out that libraries will only be alive if we fill them with new books if we fill them with audio, video and other modern and quality products. And we need to start with these baby books, children's products. So for the second reading, the Group "For the Future" will propose those standards that would direct the state's funds to the realisation of the needs of the spiritual development of the Ukrainian small reader, but in the Ukrainian language. Let's support Ukrainian books and Ukrainian libraries, as the group "For the Future" does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u148	Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Well, we all understand that the next simulation of reform, because we've seen you and I, after the medical reform, we've shut down hospitals, after school, they're cutting teachers down and closing schools, and now we've decided to get to the libraries. Because what is the reform of libraries or institutions today when the maintenance of libraries has been translated into the budgets of unified territorial communities that simply shut down libraries? Today, the rate of elimination of libraries in the country is 200 per year. And it's not to simulate the protection of libraries, but it's a complex issue, start funding, raise wages for teachers and library staff. Today, it is necessary to stop this medical reform and then to resolve the matter, not to simulate violent activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u150	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in preparing for the second reading, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Libraries and Library Affairs (Registration No. 5002). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:08:13]] For 328 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to ensure the openness of information on the size of the pay in public companies (registration number 3952). Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Then let's go over the table. It's a royal one. Don't insist. Puzichuk. Don't insist. Is he insisting? 5 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u151	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Honorable colleagues, respected citizens, this law is long overdue. Note that national MPs within the framework of parliamentary control do not always have access to information on the wages of employees of state enterprises. Why? Perhaps because the chief postman of Ukraine receives a salary of 1 million dollars a month. Let's see, for example, that Mrs. Merkel, who was the chancellor of Germany for almost 20 years, one of the world's leading countries, will receive 15,000 euros in wages. And explain why we're hiding -- why are you hiding the wages of the owners? This information had to be disclosed as much as possible: both in terms of the Railroad, and in other businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u152	Thank you. Do you insist or insist on voting? Come on, yes, thank you. Next amendment, Puzichuk. Don't insist. Puppy. Don't insist. Kovalov. Don't insist. It's fine. Don't insist. It's fine. Don't insist. Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Don't insist. Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, 16th. I'll give it to you next time, because we've already passed the second one. Okay? I'll give you one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u153	Mr. Chairman, considering that I have a number of rights that apply to the same question, you can ask for three minutes, and I will immediately put four allowances to the vote so that it does not take too long.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u154	Give me at least two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u155	Give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u156	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I understand the concern, perhaps the author of the bill, the size of the salaries of officials, top managers in state companies. We would all like the state to pay honest wages for honest work. But you don't have to make a separate law, so you have to make clear rules of the game. So, by the way, if you open a joint statement by the President of Ukraine and the United States, it says black and white, which bill. This is a bill that is currently being considered by the Economic Committee on the second reading, 5593-d. Now what's proposed is actually to do on every website of the state company that every month pay will be published. According to 90 articles of the Codex of the Master, this is so only in the annual report when we can see this information. Frankly, it seems to me that the people of Ukraine as well as we, the representatives of this people, don't matter if it's in a month, or if it's in a year. It's important that people get paid when they deserve it. And this bill doesn't really solve this problem. That's why my 16 and 33, 49, 79 is the first block, so that if information is published, the structure and the principles of wage formation are published. So we can understand why one is paid a million, and the other is paid a few thousand to understand what fines are, so that we can understand when people get paid honestly and bring billions of dollars to the state, and when they don't, and when the state company works in a minus. And that's why let's just put 16 confirmations. If it doesn't pass, I won't insist on any other revisions from this block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u158	Thank you for the design, Jaroslav Ivanovich. That's why I'm putting 16 amendments to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:12:56]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Yvchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Don't you insist? Well, we agreed that we're taking your four, you're pulling your hand. Vadim Evgenovich. I'll give you the next 66. Please, Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u159	Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to support that this bill is really on time. We have to be clear with you about society, what is the supervisory council, what is their responsibility and how they should declare their wages. I just want to say one thing. For example, a member of the Supervisory Board receives 700,000 dollars. You know, when we put up budgets with you and we can't raise the pensioners' salary, it's huge wages for people who don't have any responsibility. So, of course, a declaration is needed. Declarations just to make sure that you and I, the next time we type the budget, see how much it takes to raise something, let them take the wages away from the supervisory boards better in their financial report, and give them directly to improve services in the Crucifixion.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u160	Thank you. We're not gonna bet then, so I understand. Let's move on. Thank you. Amendment 21, Yvchenko Vadim Evgenovich I thought you two closed up right away. Come on, Vadim Evgenovich, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u161	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, I gave an example of only one Crucifixion. But what I'm saying is, please look at those enterprises where there are oversight boards. Please tell us, or please show us, society, and the opposition to whether these enterprises are profitable. Colleagues, billions of damages for objective or subjective reasons Billions of damage is no responsibility. And wages don't cut, colleagues. Where you've seen private business and actually corporate government, it's actually done to do private business to make it effective. Where did you see a private business that doesn't liberate people who run corporations like Skrnafta, the railway, Ukrenergo, directly into damage? Although I want to say that many of these things are objective and subjective.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u162	Thank you. Kucherenka's next line. You're insisting, aren't you? Twenty-four, Pussy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u163	Dear Mr. Head, I have 24th, 39th, 40th, 54th, 55th and 70th. With your permission, I'd take three minutes without a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u164	I'll bet on a vote of 24. The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u165	Excuse me, do you give your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u166	Oh, I'm sorry. Three minutes? Give me three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u167	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, of course, this is the question that we are discussing in this bill, which today is extremely painful for society, because cynicism, which is being paid today by the supervisory boards, by SEO managers of our state corporations and businesses, is going beyond the scope of the future. Well, first of all, I want to finally say hello and welcome to the government with one of the first victories: yesterday we were all very pleased to learn that the three independent members of the NAC Naftogazu Supervisory Board have finally resigned. I salute you, my friends! Unfortunately, it took two years for these hideous pseudomanagers who led the Naftogaz NAC to fail completely in order to finally go voluntarily. I was very pleased to learn yesterday that two deputy heads of government are going to leave Naftogazu NAC, and I very much hope that this will be a reconstruction and recovery of the situation from the point of view of government management by our most powerful enterprises, primarily NAK Naftogaz. But now it's about paying. See, literally two months ago, the government was wise to approve the financial plan of our national NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, which has been engaged in the last few years of not extracting gas and reducing its production, but is very successful in selling our Ukrainian national gas with you at a cost of 2.6 dollars, and now it's selling it at 7.4 dollars. Well, that's good. Look at the success of this broker company: 1,200 employees, a salary fund of 3.6 billion dollars. It's an administrative apparatus, it's much more than it's spent on manufacturing, both for manufacturing and transportation. Six billion dollars in maintenance will be paid to this company, of which 1 billion 200 will be paid for by foreign lawyers, outside lobbyists. And the average wage on NAC Naftogazu, so modest is 270,000 dollars per month per person. Once again, not in a year, 270,000 dollars per person. Friends, Ukrainians, I understand that perhaps the salary of the deputies can afford to pay for this Camaryl, but the salaries of the Ukrainians, their pension, unfortunately, will not allow them to support such structures as Naftogaz and Crucifixion. So, obviously, colleagues, we need not only to regulate wages, but we need to regulate the efficiency of government governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u168	Thank you. Next line 27, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u169	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dmitri Alexandrovich, I have five more amendments, and I also ask for three minutes and then a vote. Three minutes, I have five amendments, three minutes, and then we vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u170	How many lines do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u171	Five.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u172	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u173	Give me a time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u174	Give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u175	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear citizens, as our colleague Alexei Yuriovich Kucherenko said. And notice, given that in Naftogaz, the average wage of one worker is 270,000 dollars, you're going to have those payments in a month with incredible numbers this fall. In November of the month, you'll get payments, and you, citizens, will pay for their salary for 3 billion maintenance equipment that doesn't produce anything. It's not about the development of the country, it's not about the economy -- it's just about spending money, it's about robbing, it's about robbing ordinary Ukrainians, you, citizens. And really, as a parliament, it's not enough just to divulge information, it has to be the efficiency of the work of these managers. And there's no way that the managers of the corrupt monopolies, the government monopolies, can get tens of millions of wages per year. The same question is asked by everyone, but every businessman never works for himself. And if the owner of the company has a manager that's causing him damage, he fires the manager. And the state of Ukraine, in the person of our government, rewards these managers, pays them an incredible salary. So, colleagues, let's support this bill, this is a very good right initiative. The Motherland faction will support it, but don't stop at it. And we should also call for responsibility, including personal responsibility, and fire, more specifically, such woe managers. Thank you. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u176	Thank you. Kovalov does not insist. Mino doesn't insist. One, 27 votes. I'm betting on the 27th vote. Please identify and vote. Let's do it in a row. [[13:22:37]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next. Princey doesn't insist. And no one insists more than Iron Man? Coltunovich? Please provide a list for confirmation. Cabatchenko? We've already gone 56. What about 86? Not funny, Alexander Rafkatovich. 86, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u177	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Mikita Ruslanovich, I have a letter from Mr. Bakanov's Head of State to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Schmigal. In this letter Mr. Bakanov writes, quote: "The cruiser did not reach the target, which is explained by the significant increase in the wage fund from 22 billion to 44 billion dollars. And this is primarily explained by the increase in the salary of the Supervisory Board for the kind of improvement in the financial performance of the University." Edit 86, that's what it's about. This right obliges nonresidents who are independent members of the Supervisory Board to submit a declaration to persons authorized to perform functions of state or local self - government. The adoption of this bill will allow Ukrainians to know in the face of their heroes and financial saviors the financial indicators of Ukraine’s state enterprises. Request to support this amendment. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u178	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, there have been alterations from both your factions, and from other factions, there from the OPCW, from other factions have been. So the problem was, as we talked about, that we couldn't break 116 articles. So they're, well, not the body of the law. Let's take it now. Then, please, you remember that we did not argue with many law enforcement officers. We just can't look at 116. So let's give it a little bit of an addition, and we'll take a quick look at it. There's an agreement in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u180	Well, the committee head is absolutely right. Even a nice initiative, we can't implement it here. I think if there's a bill registered now, we'll be able to run it soon. All those who wanted to speak but the Iron Man. No, wait. You have a lot of rights here, I understand. We have such a hard logic. Three minutes, turn it on. It's already been there. Amendment number 66. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, it's a very simple amendment, it's part of the committee. I propose that this information be published once a year, as defined in the Code of Masters (art. 90). The committee counted it partially, left it once a month, and once a year. I think it's kind of schizophrenic. So let's, or let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, So I'd like you to put it on full count.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u182	I'm betting on the 66th vote. The committee didn't support it. Please. It's considered editorially. I'm putting her to the vote, putting the author to a full vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:26:45.]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Remains partially accounted for. Partially or editorially? Edited, I'm sorry. No. 80. Instead of the six iron lines, please turn on for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u183	I hope, however, that our room will have the potential for these adjustments. Dear colleagues, I understand the logic when we see the salaries of state-owned enterprises that are directly in state-owned, where the state has 50 percent or more. We can argue, maybe not, but if there's such an unrestrained desire to count the money of the top managers of these companies, let it be. But what logic is it that we also distribute to enterprises owned by our state enterprises, that is, our children? That doesn't make any sense to me. Moreover, they should be accountable to the management of these state companies. And the corrections, which are exactly, there's six of them, let's just put the 80s on confirmation so they don't take too long, they just take that note into account. This is a normal world practice that exists in the world. And it seems to me that if the committee had looked a little bit more closely at world practice, it would have come to that conclusion. Thank you. And I'm only asking you to do 80 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u184	I'll bet you 80 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:28:30.]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Give me two minutes, Iron Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, O'Kay. You want to get information once a month from government officials, or government managers in state companies. Please tell me, what's the difference between a state-owned company and a state-owned bank? Logic, it must be the same, it cannot be made one exception, and others must be subjected to other normative acts. That's why it's 18, 35, well let's put 81 on confirmation, and then it's going to be in the same law that you want to count foreign money or money on taxpayers, so here's how we're going to look at what happens to state banks, which are also essentially state-owned enterprises. Edit 81, please put it on the count. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u186	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u187	In 81 cases, Mr. Jaroslav, the State Bank is part of the concept of a company. That's the only reason we've turned it down, because it's very simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u188	I'll bet you vote number 81. It's not supported by the committee. You heard the committee's position. Please identify and vote. [[13:30:08]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Three minutes, please, Iron Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, I am now addressing the opposition factions primarily, but I am confident that these rights will also be supported by the coalition. This law on openness. We want to see what taxpayers’ money is spent on and how decisions are made. I think it would be very appropriate to take into account another point that concerns not only us, but, I'm sure, all Ukrainians, it's how the state decides. At the President's Office, Mr. President, his head of the President's Office has many advisers. We see that they make decisions on many issues. Sometimes the scale of their thinking is so great that they want to rename the whole country. And that's why when we're wondering what salary they have, what biography, or no conflict of interest, we don't have that kind of access to that information. And the 88, like the other ones, if it's taken into account, and it gives us the people's deputies and the citizens the opportunity to ask, what's the pay for the President's Office, who has the biography, what they're doing there, what's the distribution of jobs. Therefore, considering that the representative of the President's Office, the respected author, has submitted this bill in a spirit of disclosure, I think it would be appropriate to supplement it with such norms. So I ask all my colleagues to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u190	Is that 83rd?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u191	84th, 88th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u192	84th. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, Mr. Jaroslav, this is outside the scope of this bill. So wages and visits to administrative buildings, you know, these are different things. So your idea may be nice, but let's let other laws regulate, not about wages, about opening wages. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u194	I'm betting on the 84th Iron Amendment. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:39]] For 121 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. One minute, Ironman, then we go to the vote. No. 83.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, I am sure that when we talk about openness, democracy and accessibility, there are no obstacles to the Ukrainian Parliament. And we've seen this, for example, in the Old Age Act or the Constitutional Court. So I think if we want to reveal this information, we're going to find a mechanism to do this. The last amendment, it's about openness again. Now, as we see from the media, from our colleagues' questions, we don't know who's visiting or not visiting the President's Office. There are no registers of meetings that, by the way, were promised during the elections. This edit gives this option, it opens up this information, and it makes power really, really open and transparent. That is why I hope that, despite all the articles of the Rules, we will find the possibility in 116 articles to vote on this particular bill, which makes the Office of the President's visit magazine open and accessible to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u196	I think there's going to be another initiative on your part, and there's going to be regulations. I'll bet you 83 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:10]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Dear colleagues, let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Oh, I'm sorry. Alexander Sergiyyovich, what's the paperwork for confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u197	61.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u198	Number 61, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u199	Dear Mr. Head, it's technical. I'm very short. First of all, I want to say to the previous speaker, in support of this bill, that I have an insurmountable desire not to count other people's money, but to use taxpayers' money rationally. This time. The other one. Many of the colleagues mentioned it, and when we voted on it in the first reading, I personally put in a bill a year ago, 4,199 on restrictions that might exist for members of the Supervisory Boards. And what you're talking about, let's do it. So you don't have to pass, you take 4,199 there limit in 10 minimums, there's a restriction that a person is not a journalist, and a person who has an expert degree can work in the field, a person who has an appropriate job experience, Ukrainian citizenship, an enterprise shouldn't be a wasteful and a number of other points that show that we as the country's higher legislative body really want to settle this issue. So I support this bill, but I'm asking you to put 4,199 in the agenda as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u200	61st Amendment, accounted for by the committee. It's on confirmation. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:35:56]] For 268. Decision accepted, correction confirmed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to ensure that information on the size of the public pay in public companies (registration No. 3952). Please support and vote. [[13:36:32]] For 324 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill is to amend the Ukrainian Act on Theatres and Theatre Affairs to create additional conditions for the professional development of creative theatre workers (registration No. 5205). Is someone going to insist on the papers? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Theatres and Theatre Affairs to create additional conditions for the professional development of creative theatre workers (registration No. 5205). Please support and vote. [[13:37:24]] For 350. The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. The next issue is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving civil protection legislation (registration number 5608). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:37:56]] For 264 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! For your consideration, there is a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving civil protection legislation. The Civil Protection Code was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in October 2012 and entered into force on July 1, 2013. The experience of applying the Code shows that part of it is outdated, does not meet the requirements of existing legislation, today. So in connection with these Ukrainian national MPs, a bill was drafted with the DDSN to amend both the Ukrainian Civil Protection Code and a number of other Ukrainian laws with the aim of eliminating terminology and content differences in the code, clarifying tasks, rights and duties in the area of civil protection of both owners and citizens, and adopting the bill will allow for the strengthening of the protection of populations and territories from extraordinary situations, especially engineering, radiation, chemical protection of populations and territories, to ensure that populations are sheltered in the event of an emergency situation, to evacuate them, to teach activities in extraordinary situations, to protect populations from the effects of explosive objects that occur in Ukraine as a result of hostilities in the history of the Russian war and to protect civilians. I propose to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u202	Thank you. A member of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use of Mandji Sergey Volodymyrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, you have before you the draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving civil protection legislation. The bill is designed to amend the Civil Protection Code, the laws of Ukraine: "On Transport", "On Legal Emergency Regime", "On Road Transport", "On Urban Activity Regulation". Which will allow: The first is to improve the organization of protection of populations and territories from extraordinary situations based on the modern achievements of European countries in this area. The second is to adapt professional legislation to changes that have long been due to the completion of decentralization reform and the ongoing stage of reform of the central executive bodies, including their territorial bodies. The third is to align the separate provisions of the Civil Protection Code with the Ukrainian Anti-Nuclear Action Act and the distribution of fire extinguishers in objects and territories, underground buildings and areas of the forest and natural-indictment fund. The bill is supported by the State Service of Ukraine in emergency situations. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine examined the bill and expressed a number of comments that could be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. Please support the decision of the Main Committee, the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use and the outcome of the first reading, to adopt the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u204	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, it is clear that in the context of the armed conflict solved by the Russian Federation against Ukraine, civilian protection of the population needs to be improved and taken into account in the world’s experience. And that's why the Civil Protection Code also needs to be improved. So this law that we're discussing right now, it's very technical in many ways. In fact, it conforms to European law and terminology, and other innovations are introduced regarding regulatory arrangements for the conduct of an increased preparedness and emergency regime. Colleagues were rightly noted that he had some comments, such as regarding the use of evacuation machines not only for family members, the owners of the car, but also for others. That's what "other people" needs to be improved and refined for second reading. But our first-reading faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u206	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u207	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust MP. I give the word to Paul Bakuntz.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u208	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u209	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, let us mention with you the terrible fires and floods that have occurred in recent years, especially in various parts of our country, as they have caused damage to billions of dollars. And especially are the explosions at military warehouses, and especially the forest fires in Zitomirsk, Lugansk. The consequences of such emergencies can be reduced at the same time, and only a formal step is needed, and the civil protection system needs to be changed. My colleagues and I have prepared this bill to adapt old legislation to modern realities and to protect ourselves from the aggressor who, during the hybrid war, can also do much harm to the various regions of our country. So I urge you to vote today on the first reading of this bill, to support, to elaborate and, of course, to improve the civil protection system. Please also take into account the results of the investigation of the interim commission of inquiry into the fires in Zitomirsk, Luhansk. Because the TSC is happening, the results are, but no one is responding. So please take this into account and vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u210	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u211	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! A little bit more detail about my previous speech. Mr. Handsome, he's the Commander-in-Chief of the VSU, he's not the Chief of Staff. But this is the essence of the question that does not change. He's got more than one tank. So they can sit down, go to the Red Square, if that's what he thinks possible. You don't have to talk about it. You don't have to talk about it. You don't have to talk about it like the Sevastopol parade. It ended with the Iloways. And if you have the courage, do it, and if you don't, keep your mouth shut. On this issue, which we are currently considering, I would like to warn against this initiative. In principle, it has the right to be discussed, but in the drafting of this bill, I am absolutely convinced that the analysis of this bill has shown that the local authorities have not been involved, and the burden of adopting this law will be on them. Before adopting such laws, we need to hold discussions, reconcile them with local councils, if we now feel that we are moving toward self - government. And if not, you can certainly swing the top with a checker. Before the local authorities are charged, on the one hand, with responsibilities, on the other hand, we need to find funding to carry out these duties, so our faction today refrains from supporting the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u212	Is there anyone who would like to speak? No, it's not. Please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving civil protection legislation (registration number 5608). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:47:53]] For 276 Decision taken. Thank you. The next question is draft Law registration number 3969, draft Act amending the Water Code of Ukraine to clarify the list of primary water users. Is someone going to insist on the papers? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Water Code of Ukraine to clarify the list of primary water users (registration number 3969). Please support and vote. [[13:48:48]] For 280 Decision taken. The next issue is the draft Act amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget in relation to the amendment to the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Promotion of the Detining of Income and on the Promotion of Tax Culture (Registration No. 5154). Someone's going to insist on the papers? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget in connection with the amendment to the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Promotion of the Childhood of Income and on the Promotion of the Tax Culture of Citizens through the introduction of voluntary declaration by natural persons of their assets and the payment of a one-time assembly to the budget (registration No. 5154). Please support and vote. [[13:49:48]] For 249 Decision taken. Cosmiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich is a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u213	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I'd like to ask you and colleagues, and my colleagues and I have already negotiated with all the factions on the adoption of Bill No. 5526, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports on the sports of Ukrainian veterans. So this is going to be a special status, a special sport. And we're going to define the kind of sport that's very important and expected by veterans to draft. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, there is now a proposal to change the momentum of the consideration of issues and now consider Bill Registration No. 5526. Is there no objection? That's the basis, right, do we? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports on Veterans Sports (Registration No. 5526). Is there no objection? None. Please support and vote. [[13:51:21]] For 327 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have little time to get into the next first reading. There is now a proposal for ratification to vote without discussion. Is there no objection? I'll call you right now. 0106 is a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. Is there no objection? I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Arab Emirates amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of double taxation and tax evasion on income and capital taxes (Registration No. 0106). Please support and vote. [[13:52:36]] For 330. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a question of denunciation. I'm going to call it, if there's no objection, we don't have to discuss it. Will everyone be denied? All of them? All right, I get it. Rename. Will there be a denial? They will be. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, they will, they'll have two of your colleagues sitting, they'll have them. Dear colleagues, there is an offer then to close the session and move on to the extracurricular. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
