ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Good morning, members of the media! Good morning, distinguished representatives of diplomatic missions, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Good morning, clergy! Dear colleagues, I remind you, as always, we need to register, the registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left. Nothing's changed since last session. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:02:13]] There are 219 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council open. Honourable National MPs, Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] Heads of central executive bodies, heads of the judicial branch. The present officials, whom the Supreme Council of Ukraine elects, appoints, and agrees to serve. Dear colleagues. [[Applause]] The church and religious organizations of Ukraine are present. [[Applause]] As always, representatives of the media. [[Applause]] Heads of diplomatic representation of foreign states. [[Applause]] Other officials. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth vocation is publicized.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u2	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, last year was a difficult and unforgivable, challenging Ukraine and Ukrainian Parliamentarianism and the whole universe. Because the challenges that have been facing us have been gone for many, many years, decades, or perhaps never in the history of our state. The Coronavirus pandemic has captured the entire state of Ukraine and unfortunately, the whole world, even the global wars that we've all witnessed in the history of the universe, they haven't been so catastrophic that we can observe today, after the coronavirus. Regrettably, this disease is not limited to the health of the people; it also beats the economy; it beats the relations between nations; and many other aspects of our normal life. Unfortunately, I'm sure 2021 will be unforgivable for us. But only by bringing together the basic and the right things will we be able to overcome all the challenges. The problems facing society today I'm not going to talk to today, you know, without me, you're talking to people because it's you who's primarily facing people's problems, their questions about all the tragic or positive events that are taking place in our society. This is especially true of majors. You were the first ones when you were in the floods, you were the first ones when the tariffs started, and many other things you encountered. I think the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call will be as successful as we can make it with you. There will be many challenges. But I think we can focus on four key principles that we need to focus on. The first is tariff policy. Sadly, you and I have all seen that this problem has taken place before and after New Year’s Eve. And it was our joint effective work, both the Ukrainian Parliament and other institutions, that allowed us to go to zero. We didn't solve that question. We haven't solved this problem. And we have to do everything, including at the legislative level, what will depend on us to protect the least protected and vulnerable levels of our population. Everyone understands that, and I've seen it, I see it, and I'm sure I'm going to see it in the positions of every MP and group in this Parliament and every national MP. The second important aspect on which I think we should focus our attention during the fifth session is the question of how we develop our industry. The industry itself will enable us to attract additional investments, both domestic and external, to create conditions to increase the number of jobs, to increase the number of taxes, and then we will also be able to implement the first point that I'm talking about today: to protect the most difficult ones today. The third point. This problem did not arise today, not yesterday, and let us give it to ourselves. Be aware that it will be difficult to solve for us, but we must move on this path. It's a change and it's a reform of the system. This is free and only access to the courts of all citizens, regardless of whether you are a deputy or not. [[Applause]] Thank you. A minister or not a minister, or just a citizen in a small city or village of our state. We really need to create the only rules, the only conditions and the only approaches to restoring and defending our right in the courts. And that'll also make it possible to invest. Today, we all know that, we don't have an investor coming to us, not because we have big taxes, not even because we have an occupied part of the territory and there's a war going on, but because he's not sure he's going to be able to protect his interests tomorrow, protect his investments, and protect the democratic principles that everyone's used to. The fourth question, the principle, is the question of really creating the right conditions for our fellow citizens with you. And there's no particular position here that could be represented, there's no specific committee on which it's going to depend, or a specific national MP. This is only possible through work together, because every committee, every national MP, has initiatives that can really help people. It's not a big business, but it's important to protect an ordinary Ukrainian. And I'm sure we can do that with you. There is another know-how that appeared in the walls of Parliament's ninth vocation, in the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call, is a process of priority and consensus. We invented it with you and launched it at the time of the coronavirus on the territory of our country. Everyone then understood that it was from rapid effective action that we could do to help the state and to help people. It was then that all the MP factions and groups in this room joined together and held meetings all day long, drafting the laws needed for the State. It was this procedure that led to the creation of a hedge fund that enabled the rapid response to the challenges faced by the state. And even now, at the end of last week's session, we were able to use this procedure to adopt laws that matter to the State both in the field of medicine and in the area of providing our fellow citizens with an effective mechanism for the government to pay compensation in connection with the increase in tariffs for our citizens. So maybe it makes sense to move this from a political legal mechanism to an institutional level and to make appropriate changes to the Rules. Because it unites Parliament, unites approaches and unites everyone in independence from flags, independent of ideology, the ideology remains one of the citizens of Ukraine, and it is fundamental to each of us, I am deeply convinced of that. And I would like to remind myself, and to you all, that the Ukrainian national deputy represents not only the interests of the electorate who voted for him, but he represents the interests of the entire people of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And only by unifying ourselves will we be able to prove to others that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is capable, as always, of coping with the challenges and problems that arise in society and of being the basic force that is always at the side of our people. Thank you all again. I look forward to working together constructively.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u4	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's get to work. I would like to thank the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Mr. Prime Minister, to our distinguished colleagues. Thank you, I wish you success and effective cooperation. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have 30 minutes to address authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, statements, and messages. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Puzichuk Andri Viktorovich. Tymoshenko? Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, today is such a sign-day session opening, I welcome you all, but today is Buck Day, you can check it out. And I have this feeling that, frankly, we're going around here: we're talking wonderful words about serving people, we're saying very well that the Supreme Council is the basis and basis for building justice in society, but in reality, you know very well what happens to people. And that's why, in order to somehow get out of this circle, I'm going to ask at least one question. You know, by 2014, more than 20 years ago, the country's tariff problem never stood. We had two things that made it possible for people to feel that there was justice. Over 20 years -- 23 years of Ukrainian gas went to people at Ukrainian prices, and 17 years of energy supply, which counted the low price of hydropower, the atomic gas, and gave people, and by the way, not just people, but industry, it also gave them adequate prices. Since the 14th year, all the stops have been torn down, and there's no limit to this rigour, the determination of the people of tariffs that they can't afford. I suggest you take at least one real step. You know, when they talk about improvements, let's at least return the good stuff that happened. We have passed Bill 4680 and we propose to sign all faction leaders. The faction leaders did not all sign, but the MPs signed to return the Ukrainian gas to the people at Ukrainian price, which was 23 years old in the country, to turn it around and make the gas go from the people's vaults at adequate prices, not the trip. You know, the two factions, the deputies didn't sign -- the Voice and the European Solidarity -- all the other MPs signed. I have a proposal for the faction leaders to sign the ad hoc regime right now, and so that we can immediately consider this law in the hall. I'm going to go around all the faction leaders, and those who don't sign ad hoc (ad hoc is going to look at it today, immediately, immediately), and I'm going to report to the public who didn't sign it so that the people know their "heroes" in the face. What a beautiful way to talk from the roosts if behind the scenes, behind the scenes, everything is done against people! And secondly, we're putting in a draft decree and we're also going to ask all faction leaders to sign, on government directives to release Kobolev and all of his corrupt neck, and it's also going to be a real step to take. I wanted us not only to be here but also to act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u6	The word is given to the national deputy of Poturayev Mikiti Ruslanovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I understand that perhaps the Conciliation Council, which happens every Monday before the beginning of the week, is not exactly an interesting sight in our media, but, excuse me, sometimes it passes all the borders. I understand that there are political declarations, there's little talk about the substance of the matter, but the real hysterics that happen there from time to time, they can't even, you know, be described as seasonal psychiatric exacerbations. There were sayings there yesterday about all the devils, I mean, I get it, us. You know, I wanted to make a very clear statement this morning, but after such a peace speech by our speaker, who spoke of unification, I also want to say a few words about unification. I want to remind you that in the 14th year, there was this song on the Maidan: it mentioned a court -- a national tribunal that everyone would go to, remember which party member. So what I want to tell you is, my esteemed colleagues in a particular faction that we are the "Serve of the People," whom you call the devils, we are now this thin red line that separates you from the same people's tribunal, because we are law-abiding people, and we have not even decided how we will react to the absolutely hammish events at our address yesterday. But even when there were calls to kill the President of Ukraine, you remember that we simply went to the law enforcement agencies in a civil way, and we wrote these statements without calling for reprisals. I also want to say that if this thin red line, which is the "Serial of the People" faction, is to be broken, you will not be expected on the other side as the allies were waiting on the Elbe. Because on the other hand, radicalization is such that no one will associate with you. And the garbage cans won't end. This will result in very and very bad consequences. I see that I'm being looked at from that side, and I think you also realize that by radicalizing society, you won't be able to keep people away from the people's tribunals. So as I join our speaker, I urge everyone to take a little bit of emotion away, to stick to civilized parliamentaryism, so that it doesn't end with the people's tribunals.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u8	The word is given to National Deputy Sowsun Inni Romanovni, faction of the political party "The Voice". Vassillah.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u9	Thank you. Good afternoon, colleagues! And I welcome everyone from the beginning of the fifth session. During this session, as in all others, task number one for the Voice faction is and remains to provide a rich, long, healthy life for Ukrainians in a quality, clean and safe environment. Our vision is the Ukrainian green course, which envisions economic growth in the background of the country's ecologicalization, in the background of air and water purification, soil enrichment and forest restoration. The emergence of new jobs in the background of creating new innovations and developing the country's scientific potential is also about the same green course. But to make all of this a reality, few simple declarations, we also need decisive action and ours with you, colleagues, voices under this action. But from week to week, all environmental initiatives take place somewhere in the backyards of our daily routine. Why? And because there are no voices in the room, there are no groups controlled by energy monopolies and industrial oligarchs who see no problem in poisoning the Ukrainian people so that they do not have access to resources. And so we have on an untimely pause bills on reducing industrial pollution, on environmental control, on banning harmful plastic. Yes, we still don't have a government hastening with any strategic documents in terms of environmental and energy security, or with real action on long-coordinated plans to modernize the same energy sector. Yesterday, February 1, was the tenth anniversary of Ukraine’s accession to the European Energy Society. Just 10 years ago, the privatization of the state heating sector began, and these powers were given into private hands for almost one single condition: investors had to modernize the old Soviet powers and set up systems for monitoring emissions and filters. Ten years later, investment commitments were forgotten, and discussions began about the lack of money for greening. By manipulating and blackmailing energy monopolies, they are now trying to transfer their obligations to the shoulders of the nations, or tax payers, to our shoulders. But the state must not pay for the business he took over, let it be 10 years ago, and Kabmin and, in particular, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of the Environment, have neither the right nor the ability to succumb today to provocation and raise questions about the transfer of time limits already assumed by international commitments to reduce emissions from TEC and TEC. This is not simply a commitment to the European Energy Community but a commitment to the people of Ukraine, to whom the State must guarantee the right to clean air and clean environment. From this rostrum I have traditionally addressed you, colleagues, and the government of Prime Minister Schmigal with a simple letter. Let's finally get people in our country to breathe oxygen instead of inhaling every day tons of toxic sulphur and nitrogen dioxide and other poisons. The changes in the order of the day depend on us today, so let's make them together and let's make them with our voices, ladies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u10	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Boyk Yuri Anatoliyovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u11	Dear Mr. Vice-Speaker, distinguished national MPs! If anyone in this room thinks that people are interested in dismembering inside the ruling faction or the staff of the Chechard, which was set up by the "servants," that's not true. People are interested in something completely different, people are waiting for answers to questions and problems that concern them every day. People are waiting for answers -- when tariffs are cut, because they just can't pay them. Pensioners are waiting for answers -- when pensions are increased, because after the recalculation, we've had a lot of signals from regions that some pensioners have received 3-5 dollars of supplement, which is just abuse of people who have spent their entire lives giving their lives to the state. People are looking forward to their own health because the vaccination mess that gave birth to today’s authorities is already scaring them more than the epidemic itself. And when the neighbouring states began to vaccinate their population, there are still debates in our country over which the vaccine will be delivered from the mediators. Many people in the State are awaiting a solution to the issue of ending the abuse of Russian, which is now being produced by the active authorities under the law. One question is the question of peace at Donbassa. The political path called the Minsk Accords, which has been approved by the current power and acting president, is now in a deadlock. In answer to these questions, I want to say this: our political power, "The Opposition Platform for Life," knows and understands how to solve these problems and how to make it easier for people. For each of these challenges we have our answer, we have a concrete plan, how to do what to do. We have relevant bills in Parliament that answer how to solve these problems. And today I want to encourage all politicians who, not in words, actually want good for the state, to unite around the country's exit from the crisis, to overcome the phenomena that have happened recently in the country that are stopping and stopping its development and moving forward, and to help people who are waiting for the state to care for them will help them. We are ready, I urge Parliament to do the same. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u12	Thank you. Chess. Culinic? Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u13	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, we begin our fifth session of the ninth call. And there will be many challenges for the Supreme Council. The first is the issue of housing and utility tariffs. Sadly, it remains unresolved. Last week, all the factions and groups supported an important bill that regulates the situation with those consumers who switched to electricity. In addition, all factions and groups have consolidated and voted in favour of a resolution that we believe will encourage Kabdin to take concrete measures with tariffs on residential services. The government has proposed some temporary decisions regarding gas prices. But in our view, this should be regulated at the legislative level and not just for the quarantine period. Our MP registered Bills 4635, 4639 on the protection of the rights of natural gas consumers. And these bills solve this issue. We're ready to support all the legislation on lowering housing tariffs. The second thing I'd like to pay attention to. After the local elections, we have a huge number of united territorial communities with many problems. The first is, for example, what's going on with the restructuring of the Social Protection Departments. There's a massive reduction in specialists, up to 50 percent. Their functions are transferred from former welfare departments to the RDA to the united territorial communities. But the O.T.G. has no expenses for these maintenances and has no idea how to provide these services. The national service to take care of this has been created only at the central level. In areas where there's absolutely nothing to fund and there's no understanding of how to organize it. Once again, we have a huge number of appeals from the heads of the united territorial communities: how do we organize a process of providing social services to a huge category of elderly and disabled persons? Plus the issue of subsidies. How can they be counted when the authorities responsible are in the process of being reorganized? Because what's happening in places right now is something I can't call chaos otherwise. Therefore, the government must urgently complete the process of reorganizing social protection bodies in order to make these processes logical. So let us unite during this session around the issues that will bring together the session hall and benefit the people. It's about housing and utility tariffs, it's about supporting small and medium-sized businesses, it's about filling local budgets. I am sure that such things will unite the session hall. And let's do at least a few useful things during this session that people need first and for our territorial communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u14	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u15	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, before this session began, a fantastic interview was conducted by our President, Greens of the United States HBO. From there, we learned a lot about Zelensky being a little angry at Trump. Well, of course Trump's not president now, he might be a little angry. You should have said thanks to Trump's Air Force Administration for the U.S. Air Force, for a joint fight against North Stream Two. I should have said thank you to the Bayden administration for putting Ukraine in the first place today. Instead, we have heard that the blame for not being vaccinated when Bangladesh and Algeria are already being vaccinated is Europe’s fault, and everyone around us is guilty. But just a fantastic passage is what Zelensky said about Crimea. If he, Zelensky, was president in 14 years, he said we'd all be bleeding, but "green men" wouldn't be missed in Crimea. You see, that would have stopped everything! That's who this new Amazon warrior of ours, this Vladimir Murometz, would have stopped everyone in 14 years! You know, if Zelensky were President of Poland in the 39th year, I understand there would be no World War II. This warrior, this powerful man! Do you know where Zelensky was at the time when the Ukrainians bled on Donbas? He was leaking on the first "eight dates" in Russia, film. What prevented you, Zelensky, from taking up arms as a Ukrainian citizen to go to defend Ukraine? What prevented us from fighting for Ukraine, not now? I was in Crimea at the end of February 14, and I was there with Dustenk, and I saw Mustafa Jemiliev fight, as Ahtem Chigoz, the national deputies of "European Solidarity", as Rephat Chubarov fought, a deputy with whom I was at the "Peter Poshenko Block" in the last chamber. I didn't see you there, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. Where you were, I didn't see you there. I was at the district where Aksionov voted in a so - called referendum in March of months in Crimea, with a Ukrainian flag. Where have you been? I saw "green men," but I didn't see any Greens there. Where were you when we defended Donbas? Where were you when we defended Odessa from the Russian invasion? You know, telling and taking on the role of Napoleon and being Napoleon are two big differences, as they say in Odessa. So in this interview, you said you had one question for Byden: Why aren't we in NATO? And we Ukrainians have one question for you, our Amazon warrior: why are you still president of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u16	Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, what does society require of us? First of all, fair and rising tariffs on fuel, tariffs on utilities. Society, not just FOPs, requires the restoration of a moratorium on business checks in the face of economic downturns and the lack of real support from state-owned entrepreneurs who are suffering from a pandemic that is further "disturbed". People demand that the efficiency of gas transport and gas distribution systems be tested in the use of private structures in all regions of Ukraine. People demand a fair price for gas, Naftogaz attaches at one price, sells at another price, and they want to hear a marginal price, a real marginal price for gas for the population. We can find out what our citizens think and position is, and that's not hard to do. It doesn't take referendums to do that, it's enough to do sociology. Colleagues, parliament must work and demand the government to comply with its decisions. We never received information from the government about the first steps he planned to take to implement the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Tariff Regulation. The MP's Party for the Future is concerned about the proliferation that has been created in the country around the topic of vaccination of the population from the coronary disease. We are convinced that this is a very important priority topic to which the attention of the world today is focused, and only Ukraine has no answer to the question of vaccination. So we have a lot of questions for the Minister of Health, whose resignation the parliamentary group "For the Future" requires, in the part of the vaccination, we're going to put these questions to him definitively in the session room this week. The information available to society is contradictory and does not answer the basic questions: How many doses have been bought, who will receive it first, and, most importantly, when such vaccination begins in our country. At the same time, there is suspicion that this ostrich is a smoke screen to hide other purposes of authority from society. As noted in the schedule of the day’s new session, the government is preparing a full disclosure of the sale at the cost of large - scale privatization objects. But privatization during the global economic crisis, caused by coronary disease, will be nothing more than a redistribution of state-owned strategic enterprises among the oligarchs close to power. No foreign great investor will come to Ukraine, whose investment climate, through foolish steps of power, with every decision of the government not only grows but goes into the abyss. We are concerned about the bill that has been passed today on the increase in tens and sometimes hundreds of times in government for notation and registration. Under good reason, the local budgets will actually be filled with additional defeats by Ukrainian citizens. We can't let that happen to you in this session room. Friends, if we want to and start working for the people, we cannot allow the further impoverishment of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u18	Thank you, Your Honor. Showtime's up. Ironman, out of procedure? No, it's not. Okay. Thank you. Let's get to work. Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. In accordance with article 69 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, according to the decision of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Slut of the People" of February 1, 2021, I report the expulsion of the national deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Anatoliyovich, from the political party "Slut of the People". Let's move on to the next issue of agenda: this is the draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. Please invite the national deputies and prepare for the vote. Discussing? Okay. Short-term procedure. Please sign in. Let's write it down: two in, two in, two in factions. As long as the colleagues get together, they'll all come out. Right? Sign up for factions: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Then we go to the vote for the draft decree. 5th Vassil Vasilovich. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u19	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we are ready to work constructively during this session of the Supreme Council. We're ready to support all the important bills that people are waiting for, and I talked about it from the rostrum today. It's primarily housing-communal tariffs, it's support for small and medium-sized businesses, because it's in a difficult situation with quarantine. We're ready to support all the bills that will raise our economy that will bring business out of the shadows. We are ready to support everything that is important to the united territorial communities that are now also in a difficult situation, because we often translate the maximum amount of financial burden into united communities, and they are not coping with it for various reasons. With regard to this decision, we have repeatedly said that quite often our bills are not included in the agenda of the Supreme Council's day session. In particular, it's like 28, 25 on budget support to the APC for the current year. This is about one percent of the support for this area from gross production in the APC. I think it's perfectly normal things to support, to put into the agenda, to put into the session hall, as well as other bills of social, other directions of the members of our group. So once again, we're ready for constructive work, but when our bills, the initiators of which are our deputies, will be included in the agenda and discussed in the session room. We will not vote in favour of this draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u20	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u21	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction has carefully considered the draft decree on what is proposed in this session to be considered in the Supreme Council. And, you know, we're not going to vote in favour of this draft decree for the reason that the 42 bills passed by the faction are not included in the agenda. But at the same time, dear fellows, I would like to ask you a question for all of us: for what purpose Ukrainian citizens choose Parliament. Perhaps in order for Parliament to resolve their questions, the issues that concern each family today. You look at the agenda for today, for tomorrow, for Thursday, is there any real question that needs to be addressed urgently for the people today? Bill 4680, initiated by Julia Timoshenko, the Fatherland faction and supported all factions, except for two. This bill is not included in this week or in the session at all. And this bill, which provides for the possibility of lowering the price of three times the price of gas for the population. So tell me, is this an important bill? This is what people today would like and applaud all of Parliament if it were included immediately and voted on. Instead, it is not even included in the agenda of the day session, for the entire sessional week, until July of the month. Therefore, it is clear that Parliament is not considering what people need. And what is openly lobbying, what is making life worse for every Ukrainian today, is in line for consideration. This is not the order of the daily session of the Ukrainian Parliament and not what people are waiting for today. We need to radically change the course of the country's development, and we need to finally listen to the things that we went to Parliament for and that we promised at every meeting when Ukrainian citizens voted for us. Let us form a responsible order of the day’s session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u22	Thank you. It's the only trailer. Dear colleagues, from your political power in this order of day 231 bill, where you are the authors or co-authors. So let's not manipulate. Thank you. Mikola Leonidovich Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! The "European Solidarity" initiatives are not deliberately included in this bill, in this decree. And it's not just because it's an initiative of European Solidarity, but because Bill 3956, for example, of my colleague Friz, my authorship, my colleague Zinkevich and other authors, proposes to impose penalties for public claims on Ukraine's territory or part of Ukraine's territory to a foreign state, as well as public denial of Ukraine's sovereignty. A number of projects and regulations are not included that involve immediate action against the spread of coronary infection and colleague Gerasimov, and Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, Irina Herashchenko, and many others. 4337, 4232, 4299 is a whole series of regulations and laws relating to the fight against COVID. There is no bill to amend the Anti-Corruption Act concerning the powers of the National Anti-Corruption Agency. There is no draft amendment to the Budget Code for State Budget Protected Expenditure. The illegal appointment of Scarlett is not included, which has been designated as buttoning. I understand why. Because you still want to steal vaccines because you still don't want to be responsible for the separatist calls because you still want to privatize the bonds as you do with the airline. NEU, the National Aviation University, where, contrary to the law, in spite of court decisions, an old director of the Tobacco Times was appointed only to tear apart and build stadiums of this institution of higher education. This is not where these decrees come in. So we're going to vote with a red button. It's a disgrace to the day!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u24	132 of your laws in this order of things. Dear colleagues, Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u25	Please pass the word to Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u26	Coltunovich? Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u27	Thank you, Mr. Head. I listened very carefully to your speech before the beginning of the session and to the restoration of industry, both in terms of tariff policy, and in terms of the overall growth of the economy. I'm willing to sign every word of it, but unfortunately we don't see it in this order of things. I'm sorry. If we analyze the challenges facing the country today, first of all we should have seen here are bills on the rapid restoration of the agri-industrial complex, which was reduced last year, on the restoration of industry, on machine building, on budgetary stability, on other sectors of the national economy, which would help restore the country and deal with the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. But this is not all there is. In particular, I would like to pay attention to the issue of tariffs, because there are a number of bills in the Supreme Council today, including our bills, which allow for a substantial reduction in the price of gas for the population and the rations for heating and hot water supply, the return of the rules on the tax on electricity, other ingredients that will allow the citizens of Ukraine as a whole to pay those utility payments that correspond to their purchasing and payment levels, unfortunately, there is not in this list. Well, some figures have been given, we have information that is scheduled to be included in the agenda of the plenary sessions from the faction of only 7 bills that are included in the unit where there are only 266 of them. So when we call a number, we take it from something. The weight of these bills, which are included in the total number, is totally not in line with the proportional principle that is even before the distribution of mandates in this Parliament. So our faction will vote against this agenda as one that does not suit national interests and does not stand for the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u28	All of them? Polyakov is a motive. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u29	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich! You spoke so beautifully today about tariffs and commitment to Parliament, and that the initiative of each MP should be important and may be important. Dmitri Alexanderovich, you can listen to me, please. But your apparatus has been blocking the issuance of signed letters for a week to hold a non-commissioned meeting on Bills 4042, 4590, 4609, 4576, 4587. These are bills that are not declared as we voted last week, but actually force our government to make tariffs for the people, to turn tariffs on gas, to clean up this disgraceful payment for transporting gas, and so on, these are bills that we have to consider, not to tell from the rostrum about a good future. Please hand over the apparatus so that they do not block the issuance of these signed letters. If.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u30	Anton Eduardoovich, first of all, does not have my or your apparatus, is the Supreme Council's apparatus. That's the first one. Secondly, you know that no one is blocking anything. Once the documents are signed, you will be sure to receive a signed letter. Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. Take your seats, distinguished national MPs. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the entire draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (Registration No. 4690). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:52:49]] For 234 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Decree on the Draft Work Plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2021 (Registration No. 4691). It is proposed to vote without discussion. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Discussing? Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Friz Irina Vasilovna. Gerasimov? Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Gerasimov, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u31	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! You know, it's a very good idea that the Council might have a billing plan. But as they say, there is always a devil in the details, and the devil in this case hides in the fact that this billwork plan, unfortunately, doesn't take into account the opinion of the opposition at all and doesn't take into account the ideas, the constructive plans and the strategies that the opposition is developing. For example, European Solidarity, unlike Mr. Zelensky, clearly understands what to do with the economy, how to cope with the epidemic correctly, and we have presented a five-step plan of Dustenka for overcoming the pandemic, what to do with vaccination, what to do with tariffs through subsidies and the return of the duty rate to 100 kilowatts. And it's just part of the ideas, the constructive ideas that we're trying to offer to protect people. But is there any legislative work in this regard? Unfortunately, it's not, because today's "green" authorities are trying to suppress opposition in every way. But it's not even the main thing, the main thing is that they don't even want to hear the constructive right ideas that really protect people and that are moving our country forward and in protection from Russian aggression, both in the international sphere and in the economic sphere, and in the social protection of people. Therefore, "European solidarity" will not support this decision and calls on everyone in this room not to support it in order to complement and complement this plan with the constructive ideas of opposition it proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u32	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I welcome everyone from the beginning of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of course, with regard to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Billing Plan for this year's Ninth Call, it is important to highlight such topics as drafts to help those who have suffered from war with the aggressor to improve electronic registers in our country of state and various services, to implement European Union legislation, etc. However, from local self-government, I would like to point out that we also need to add to the draft legislation this year, which will allow us to complete the decentralization reform in our country, because our community neighbours have promised us a good and wonderful development of property. To the newly created communities, there were so many new heads hanging, like a yoke on their shoulders, in need of possessions, and there was only one thing left — now to give them to be good owners, money. And that means that we still need to adopt laws that leave more taxes at the basic local level on OTG in order for the new communities to develop, and our neighbours with you have the opportunity to have new roads, sidewalks, schools and medicine. So I'm going to add this to the billing work. But in general, we support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u34	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u35	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, I have carefully considered the document, and there is not a word of reference. So either with the apparatus or with the assistants, it doesn't matter. And if you tell our camera, I have no relation to the people who work there, I don't, I didn't assign them. But the holding of an extraordinary meeting on the real solution of tariff issues is blocked. And we've just been doing more than just talking, but we've been keeping the agenda, our MPs. But we're going to ask you, there's no law on the FOPs that they want, not on the agenda. People keep rallying. That's important, too. It's almost 2 million people who didn't leave the country that stayed here, and they're self-employed, and they're working. Please note that if you really say that every nice initiative of everyone, regardless of whose deputy, is really important, then I ask you to pay attention to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u36	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. After that, is there any motive? Cool. Then we go to the vote. We'll vote in three minutes. Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u37	Please give the floor to my colleague, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u38	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u39	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, surely, the draft of the decree is important for our work. But I have the same impression as I have in the last year. By the number, it's all right. It's beautifully described. As the people say, it's good for the divers. And there's a question behind the quality. Why do we not want to consider tariff issues? Why do I stress the question that national gas is given to the people of Ukraine by companies? Why do we today have two reductions in Mr. Green's presence in power over the past two years, and the cost of utilities is rising at a catastrophic rate? Well, it's like there's laws about our territories in individual regions of Donetsk and Lugansk. But we do not see among them any law provided for in the Minsk covenants. This means that there is no desire, no intention to resolve the issue of conflict and to establish peace in our country. And if there is no peace, it is the risk of our citizens' lives. And that's the main thing. The primary gain for each of us must be the lives of the people themselves. If we do not fight today and promote peace, it means that no investor will come here. This means that corruption, looting, and looting will now dominate what is left in our country. On the basis of our calendar plan and purposes, we need to get out of one of the main goals: how can people live in peace and better, if you are his servants, not his masters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u40	Krulko Ivanovich. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u41	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, let's see what this decision is supposed to be about. This decision on which bills the Parliament believes are paramount in order to be considered immediately in this sessionary room. Today, from the rostrum of this in his opening remarks, Parliament Speaker Dmitry Alexanderovich said that tariffs are a key issue, a key issue for solving people's lives. Why don't we immediately include an ad hoc bill that deals with a reduction in gas price three times? Let's solve this issue and we'll do it right away because all the factions are talking about tariffs, so let's do it. 4680 registered. And here's the billing plan that we're going to do right now. That's what we're going to do in the session room for exactly 10 minutes. And we will solve the problem that applies to every family today. Here's a proposition from Fatherland. And this is a real billing plan. And people will at least start to understand what they're coming for.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u42	Please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Decree on the Billing Plan for the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2021 (Registration No. 4691). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:04:21]] For 256 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine to eliminate the conflict in the appointment and release of members of the Supervisory Board of the National Social Broadcasting Company of Ukraine by parliamentary factions and groups (Registration No. 4413). The chairman of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Poturayev Mikita Ruslanović, is invited to the rostrum. Who's going to insist on editing? Then let's just go straight, like here a little bit, so it's faster. Stefanchuk, 2rd row. Don't insist. Princess, 8th. Is he insisting? Is it insisting or not? Yeah. Please turn on 8 revisions, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u43	So this is number 8. The bill is about defining the term of office of a member of the Nacradah elected by a faction and a group, in place of the one whose mandate has been suspended in the short term within the unexpired term of the previous Supervisory Board. We propose that this rule be removed, because then the law creates a coalition, because in another rule of law, the term of office of a member of the Supervisory Board is set at 5 years. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u44	I'll bet you 8 votes. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:06:15.]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Next item. Surkis doesn't insist. Stefanchuk does not insist. Eutushka does not insist. Is he insisting? 17 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u45	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland, Equinox. Dear colleagues of the National MPs, the position of the Fatherland in this bill is that the information resource, such as social television, should set up its daily order without reference or serving any other owner of the channel, or perhaps one of the political powers. It is for that reason that we need to form a supervisory board so that it is not involved in carrying out its professional duties so well that the content that this information resource releases allows Ukrainians to search for and watch this resource on the radio or turn on televisions. That's why it's in my direction that the same person can't be part of the NSO's Supervisory Board for more than two consecutive periods. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u46	I'm betting on the 17th vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:07:54]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Condratuk, 19th Amendment. Don't insist. Eutushka, 20th. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u47	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland, Equinox. Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction, in principle, will support the committee's second reading of the bill. But I would like to warn the authors and the head of the committee, because there are provisions or points in the text of the bill that indicate that we will form a supervisory board from a clean, so to speak, letter. But I do know that two members of the Supervisory Board are still authorized as a minimum per year. What can this lead to? This can lead to external requirements. And the external requirements, in principle, will be justified, because I think their rights will be violated here. Please put 20 amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u48	I'm betting on the vote number 20. The committee is not supported, please identify and vote. [[11:09:13]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Princely, 22 revisions. Put the card in the remote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, now, why is this law being passed? This law is adopted in order that, contrary to the Constitution, the valid members of the Supervisory Board who have not completed their duties will cease to be authorized. A comprehensive list of the reasons for the early termination of the term of office of a member of the Supervisory Board is contained in article 10 of the Law. It states that the term of office of a member of the Supervisory Board is prohibited for reasons other than those provided for in the law. Instead, paragraph 3 of the Transitional Regulations ceases to authorize members of the Supervisory Board on grounds that are not mentioned in Article 10. This violates article 22 of the Constitution. This law, as proposed, is unconstitutional. I suggest you remove this rule from the Transitional Regulations and support my amendment. That is the same opinion of the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u50	I'm betting on the vote number 22 of the People's Deputy of the Prince. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:11:02]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The next amendment is the extreme amendment, Vátroviča. Is there a Vitatrovich? None. Please prepare to vote for the law as a whole. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Act on Social Television and Broadcasting of Ukraine on the Elimination of the Colleague in the Appointment and Liberation of Members of the National Social Radio Company of Ukraine by Deputies and Groups (Registration No. 4413). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:12:09]] For 290 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Let's see the factions. The railroad is a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u51	Can I have your word on the engine?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u52	The gun is from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u53	Thank you, Your Honor, for voting for this law. But I would like to ask questions for everyone, perhaps rhetorical: What are we going to show on TV? And so it could also be in the national security plan of Ukraine, Ukrainian contemporary art. And today or yesterday this Ukrainian contemporary art has suffered a great loss, Sergey Proskurnya died. I would like to keep in mind that we should not forget to invest in Ukrainian culture, and that the Ukrainian Parliament should keep its attention in this direction. Thank you. Sergey’s Everlasting Memory
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u54	The next issue of the agenda is the draft Decision approving the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of February 1, 2021 on the application of sectoral special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) to the Republic of Nicaragua (registration number 4689). It is suggested that a decision be made to include the matter in the order of the day. Please support and vote. [[11:14:04]] For 312 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[11:14:26]] For 315 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:14:50]] For 257 Decision taken. The Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Ms.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u55	Good afternoon, Mr. Head. Good afternoon, people's deputies. In the summer of 2019, the Government of the Republic of Nicaragua took unaffiliated action against our nation, namely, the initiation and opening of the so-called Honorary Consulate of Nicaragua in the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Since 2019 the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has repeatedly addressed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Nicaragua, demanding that its improper decision be lifted. However, official Managua ignored the Ukrainian side’s appeal, deliberately ignoring Ukraine’s official warnings. By order of the President of the Republic of Nicaragua, Daniel Ortega Saavedra, August 3, No. 76/2020, the so-called Honorary Consul of Nicaragua in the Republic of Belavencs, Oleg Evgenovic, who was found guilty on 18 March 2019 of violating Ukraine's territorial integrity and integrity, inciting treason, waged an aggressive war against Ukraine and sentenced to 13 years' imprisonment. The step being taken is a grave violation of Ukrainian legislation and international law, including UN General Assembly Resolutions No68/262 - the territorial integrity of Ukraine, 71/205, 72/190, 73/263, 74/168 and 75/192 - the situation of human rights in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol (Ukraine) and 73/194, 74/17 and 75/29 - the problem of militarization of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, as well as the Black and Azov Seas. On November 10, 2020, there was an illegal discovery by the Republic of Nicaragua of the Honorary Consulate in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Ukraine. In view of Ukraine’s urgent sovereign right to restore its territorial integrity, within the limits defined by the international community of the state border, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u56	Thank you, Alexy Mechaslavovich. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation at its meeting on February 2, 2021 (Protocol No. 43) approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Decision approving the decision of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine of February 1, 2021 "On the application of sectoral special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) to the Republic of Nicaragua" on the basis and in general. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, against, speaking from MP factions and groups. Wasilenko Lesia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u59	Please report to Bobrovsky Solomia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u60	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u61	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, it's the right decision that we're going to approve by Parliament today. What's more, I'd like to go to the RNB and personally to Mr. President, because there are still a number of sanctions and suggestions for what we should approve here in the Council. This is particularly true of those members of the Russian Duma who voted in favour of amending the Constitution of the Russian Federation, which provides for the actual annexation of Crimea and the expansion of the territory. Well, secondly, this is certainly about Russian nuclear research at the Russian Academy of Sciences, which is still being used and operated, and they have a license to Artemsil. But on returning to Nicaragua, I would like to point out that, in fact, the Russian Federation has spread its tentacles around the world, and there are a number of interesting facts that relate to the relationship between Nicaragua and the Russian Federation. First of all, the Russian Federation has written down Nicaragua since 92, about $6 billion in debt. That's the first one. In the 16th year, Russia began to build a military base there for exploration and passed on about 50 T-72 tanks. Moreover, Nicaragua is one of the few countries that has recognized the independence of self-proclaimed Abkhazia and South Ossetia. In total, the Russian Federation sends relief aid to Nicaragua each year for tens of millions of dollars. So they actually bought this country and used it for their own purposes. What is more, it is not surprising that the person who has been appointed. was appointed so - called Honorary Consul and a person sentenced to 13 years for attempted annexation by Ukraine. That's why. What is most surprising is why the appointment actually took place in November, and only on February 1, the Supreme Council approves the sanction through a decree that was adopted only three months after that fact in Crimea. Unfortunately, as far as I'm concerned, we have to react much faster. This applies not only to Parliament, but to the President and the PNB, as a special body, first. The Voice faction is definitely in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u62	Please, Honcharenko, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u63	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, of course, we have to support sanctions against Nicaragua, any other country that's going through Russian politics, Russian narratives, and we have to fight and show the world that Crimea is Ukraine. But you know, I'm surprised that our warrior, our President of Zelensky, is ready to fight Nicaragua, but somehow he's not ready to fight Russia. As we make decisions on sanctions against Nicaragua, Ukraine buys Russian electricity, and since February 1, we have renewed Russian electricity imports. What's that? We're going to fight Nicaragua, and we're going to quietly buy Russian electricity? We're buying Belarusian electricity today. The whole of Europe has given up electricity with Belarus’s AES, and usurper Lukashenko, Ukraine, is buying Belarusian electricity. And they have Belarus, Russia is one energy system. I have a question: why do we ignore and make beggars of Ukrainian miners, Ukrainian energy, Ukrainian industry, to pay money to Russian miners, Russian energy. Why doesn't our PNB think about it? I am addressing Mr. Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. Stop importing Russian electricity immediately and stop importing Belarusian electricity immediately. The bill in the Supreme Council, why isn't it being considered? Why, instead of sanctioning Nicaragua, do we vote on them, but why is there no other law around here to stop the killing of our own energy and the work of the aggressor and usurper Lukashenko? You can't understand that. Let us fight for our country now!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u64	Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, here's the question today, it's very nice that we're discussing Nicaragua, but that's not the point. Many years ago, when I started working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there was a popular phrase, "as a priority is the economy of diplomacy." What did he mean? That when any foreign policy decision is adopted, it should be a matter of accounting for the economic consequences of this decision. Who's questioning that Ukraine's going through a deep socio-economic crisis today? Who question that Ukrainians are among the poorest inhabitants of our continent? Nobody. But at the same time, we make decisions in the foreign political realm that directly contradict the improvement of people's lives, the provision of exports to our products, the development of scientific industries. Okay, Nicaragua, what did China do? The People's Republic of China is also an aggressor state? Why the sanctions imposed against China? Why the sanctions imposed against China’s business? Why are sanctions imposed against the second and the coming times of the world’s first economy? And I know why, because that's what the Americans were asking for, and there's no claim on them. If I were an American diplomat, I'd do the same. They're protecting their national interest and doing it very cheaply -- with the hands of the foolish ones in our power who can't even ask for anything in return, because one call from Washington is enough not to sell the Motor City to the Chinese, but also the sanctions to screw it up. We are fighting today with the greatest power in the world in the interests of another state. Why Americans need this, I understand that they're protecting national interest. Why Ukraine needs this is a question. Why are we restricting trade with SND countries? Why do we restrict trade with other countries in the East? Why do we have the only priority to be liked in Washington? For this reason, we make decisions that directly conflict with the economic interests of our citizens. So the question in this situation is not in Nicaragua, it's a question in its own right. And so I demand, on behalf of our faction, that we vote on this decision as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u66	Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Then we go to the vote. Bacunec Pavel Andriovich later. Is there a Batenko? Please turn on the microphone. After that, Bakunec, we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u67	Please give the floor to the national MP, Anton Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, certainly Crimea and Donbas are ours. But we don't, for example, see any effective action on the side of Zelensky and his team on the return of our territories. And the question isn't Nicaragua, which one. By the way, most deputies don't know where this country is at all, which is bordering Honduras. The question is, what do people say to me right now, "What are you looking at?" We have priority issues. And when most Ukrainians have nothing to pay for utilities, there's nothing to buy drugs for, there's nothing to buy food for, we should have used those 15 minutes to really important questions about, really, economic improvement in the country, about the return of normal, human tariffs, not the genocide of our Ukrainians who are still here, in our country. For example, diabetic babies, which should also be provided with government funds. There are also many fine bills that are somehow blocked by the committees, which are also guided by the peculiar faction of the "Serve of the People". Dmitry Alexanderovich, I'm going to address you for the third time today: please note this: the agenda, the priority issues. Because what we're spending our time on right now is not worth it. And the Ukrainians really don't understand us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u69	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u70	Since 2014, an aggressor has invaded our lands and brought our country into a war of war. Our defenders and protectors, such as the legendary 24 brigades and hundreds of thousands of other defenders, have abandoned their normal lives, their families, and dedicated themselves to protecting our country. And as long as they're fighting in the east, in the ice, we can at least be here with you, in the hall, protecting our country in the legal field. So today, I urge everyone in the Hall to support these sanctions against the Republic of Nicaragua, which is openly helping our enemy fight for the extermination of the Ukrainian people. We must show our principle and stand firm and vote in favour of sanctions against countries that help the aggressor fight Ukraine. So I ask the hall to support these sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Prepare to vote. It's a lot of motive. Then we vote. I can't see. Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u72	Gregory Nemira, faction of Fatherland. The "Fatherland" faction will support the draft Decree on Sanctions for the Republic of Nicaragua. Of course, there can be no doubt about the substance of the reasons for the imposition of sanctions. Despite repeated attempts, including communications from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the government’s management project, which was adopted in October of last year, had no reaction. But I want to look at the structural problem. Colleagues, 48 hours is just given to the Supreme Council to make a decision. Imagine if it wasn't for the plenary week, or when the Council wasn't going to the session. I believe that the lessons of this issue need to be changed to the Ukraine Sanctions Act in order to have a rational period that would allow the Supreme Council to deal more carefully in the future and systematically with the issue of sanctions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am betting on the adoption of the draft Decision on the approval of the decision of the National Defence Council of Ukraine of 1 February 2021 on the application of sectoral special economic and other restrictive measures to the Republic of Nicaragua (registration number 4689). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:31:14]] For 322 Decision taken. Thank you. Orders adopted in general. The next question of the agenda is. Oh, I'm sorry, dear colleagues, there's been a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Another Romanovna? Sussun Inna Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u74	"I'm surprised, like everyone in this room, that a 32-year-old girl is urging us to vote for one of the very important documents," said National MP Sergio Rudik from this rostrum last week when the Security Service Bill was discussed. He said this about our colleague, Marianne Besuglou, and he respectfully mentioned another member of the previous vocation of Irina Sisoyenko. We are surprised, frankly, that the national deputy is surprised that colleagues can express themselves from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But let's be honest, Mr. Rudik, he certainly doesn't think that people's deputies have no right to speak, and he's surprised at what a woman can say, especially if she's 32 years old. I would like to remind Mr. Rudik that women at the age of 32 can have far greater achievements than individual men. Yes, the first women astronauts flew into space when they were 30 years old, and Maria Curie discovered a new element in the Mendeleje polonium table in 31 years. Women can succeed at any age. And most importantly, they have the right to speak on equal terms with men at all times. If they're denied the right to speak, if they're challenged by their article, it's got a very clear name: sexism. And sexism is used when there is no power of argument. When there is a lack of competence and professionalism. And if we don't respond now, we legitimize the same sexist events in society. And they are, unfortunately, still common. I'm going to give you a few examples of sayings that women on social networks have given me, "Are you wandering? Did the man allow it? What party? Yeah. Who's your lover or your husband? Why do you need it, it's not a woman's thing? I'm pleasantly surprised, I didn't expect that from a woman." Although the offer was from a woman, it was accepted. Unfortunately, these are the realities that Ukrainian women live in. And we're here to say that it shouldn't be. We believe that the most appropriate response from Mr. Rudik would be to apologize to Marianne Besugola, as well as to other girls in the '32s and not only. If Pope Rudik lacks his own courage to do so, we expect such an apology from the "For the Future" group. And the most appropriate response from Parliament would be the adoption of the Sexism and Amendments Act, developed by the "Equal Opportunities" interfractional association. And we are convinced that if we do this together, we will be surprised by the changes in both the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u75	Replica is Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, I'm going to quote from "The Ukrainian Truth" on September 11, 18th, saying, "I've had the honour of seeing girls who, with their courage and desire to protect their mother's mother, have been able to give a joke to many men. In the country, since 2014, about 7,000 representations of a beautiful half have been received as "a participant in combat." Ukrainians are at war on the front level with men. On their delicate shoulders, they exerted tremendous pressure in the first years of war, helping as a fighter, nurses, volunteers, wives and mothers." Sergey Rudik, Ukrainian national deputy. That's Sergei Ruddick. As far as sexism is concerned, I have never singled out sex as a problem to blame for professionalism or non-professionalism. I've always appealed to professionalism. If, society, you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u77	Next question of the agenda. No, it's not. Next question of the agenda. Sergey Jaroslavovich, we don't give any extra time to anyone. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice on the completion of competitive procedures for the appointment of judges of local courts (registration No. 4229). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:37:06]] For 251 Decision taken. A member of the Committee on Legal Policy, Maslov Denis Vejacheslavovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u78	Dear Mr. Golovo, Your Honorary Presidium, Your Honorary Fellow Members of the People's Deputies, your opinion is proposed by a bill on the completion of competitive procedures for the appointment of judges of the local courts. This bill applies to a little over 40 candidates for the post of judge. These are the candidates for the post of judge who had received recommendations from the Higher Qualifications Commission before 2016 and then from the High Council of Justice regarding the appointment of judges. But in 2016, the Parliament of that time adopted amendments to the Constitution and the Law of Ukraine on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, which was renamed the Supreme Council of Justice. A new edition of the Judicial and Judicial Status Act was adopted. In connection with this submission, the recommendations for these candidates were returned to the Higher Qualifications Commission, which was to reopen the procedure and recommend to the High Council of Justice. What happened. By 2019, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, rather than re-competing and completing competitive procedures, had been engaged in a competition with the Supreme Court. And in 2019 alone, in August, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine was able to announce competitions for these candidates. In 2019, but by the fall of 2019, this Parliament had stopped all members of the High Qualifying Commission, thus effectively blocking the conduct and completion of the competition procedures. A little over 40 candidates have been waiting for their appointment for five years. Today, four applications have been submitted to the European Court of Human Rights by these candidates, and they have been accepted by the European Court of Human Rights. It was for the purpose of resolving this situation that we submitted the bill. What he predicts. And it predicts that temporarily, I emphasize, temporarily (and this is the first word in this bill) until the formation of the authorized composition of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges to hand over individual powers precisely for the purpose of completing the competition procedures to the sole court authority in force today, the Supreme Council of Justice. Temporary and only separate authorizations for a clear purpose. The Supreme Council of Justice is to complete these competitive procedures and make recommendations for the appointment of these men as judges. In fact, it's about justice, we're restoring it through this bill. At its meeting, the Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered the bill, considered all the observations and 16 votes in favour, and only one, held, against zero, recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and the Law on the Higher Council of Justice on the completion of competitive procedures for the appointment of judges of local courts (registration number 4229) (since 19 October 2020), submitted by the national deputies of Ukraine to Maslovim, Dirdin and others, on the basis of the first reading, to be accepted as a basis and in general, taking into account the completion of section S of the Final Order of the bill of paragraph 6 of the following substance: "For the purpose of the first reading."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u79	No, it's not. I'm sorry, you. Please sign up for factions: two for, two against. Have a seat, please. The trip of Dmitri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u80	Good afternoon, Mr. Head. Good afternoon, colleagues. In general, I support Bill 4229, particularly in part of the temporary transfer of powers to the Supreme Council of Justice by the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine. Indeed, there is a human resources crisis in the judiciary today, and it is becoming dangerous. At the same time, I will note that the bill only applies to 43 vacant seats of judges, which does not significantly address the staffing problem in the courts. In September last year, I and my colleagues from the "Serial of the People" faction registered Bill No. 4055, which refers to the most mass category of candidates for the last selection of judges. These are 367 candidates for the position of judges of local courts who have been through a filter of numerous transparent procedures for over 3 years, including nine months of special training at the National School of Judges of Ukraine, who have passed a qualified examination, but are currently in a state of legal uncertainty because of the suspension of the powers of members of the High Qualifying Commission. In particular, I would like to express my gratitude to the members of the Committee on Legal Policy for supporting Bill 3711-d, which will allow us to launch a High Qualification Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u81	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I want to say, Denis Vejacheslavovich, to you, that I understand the offer you're making and the person who worked in the system and the professional who works on the committee quite professionally. But you yourself from this rostrum have answered the reason for this situation: this is the adoption of Law 1008, which we have actually applied constitutional and legal responsibility in the form of the early termination of the full membership of the WCC because they were very, very much thought to have been slowly conducting qualifications and selecting new candidates. So what do we have now? We now have a situation, one-and-a-half years ago, and it's not clear when it's going to start, and this is the third time that we've been offered a series of powers that are, according to the law, assigned to the exclusive powers of the CCW, to transfer to the PDA. That was the case with the judges ’ reserve, with the judges on board, and we are told that every six months, well, a little more, and definitely the first tape will be temporary before the creation of the CCW. Guys, you don't put 3711 on Thursday. What is the purpose of it? Do you want to run the VCC or do you want to pass a number of CCCC credentials today? You define yourself because these are mutually exclusive things. From the outset, at the time of the adoption of Law 1008, we talked about the fact that this would end by actually destroying judicial authority, freezing the work of the adjacent institutions, and unfortunately, this law preserves and does not solve the problem, so we certainly cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u83	Vlasenko. Oh, Vasilla, I'm sorry. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, people need a court, but a fair court, not a court, where a judge will be dependent on authority, where through the High Council of Justice, by showing the pope, as often shown to the deputies in the Office of the President, will be forced to make decisions that do not meet the law, but that are in line with the wishes of the government. Each authority wants to exercise control over the judicial branch of power. This is understandable because this arbitrator must stand in the interests of society, in fact, to serve the people, as we call one of the factions. But if the IDP, which has been criticised by the Venice Commission, which has not been reformed, is able to determine who has the right to rule and who does not, and will use the Tatar popes, there will be no justice. So run, as the speaker said today, full judicial reform, run a High Qualifying Commission of Judges, which is supposed to select high-quality judges, mold it in good faith, and only then can it be said that we have a judicial system. And howling sticks that don't stick to a pile, trying to cover up. and temporarily, I remind you, we have over a year's interim head of the State Bureau of Investigation. Don't move, you can't vote, the red "against" button. People have to have justice, not corruption in courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u85	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u86	Please give the floor to the national deputy Sergio Rudik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u87	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u88	A referendum, you say, people, will you do whatever people tell you? Well, listen to what people say about your bill. "We, the representatives of public organizations, who have been fighting for years to establish fair justice in Ukraine, are concerned about the situation of judicial reform that has taken place in parliament. Instead of launching quality updates as soon as possible for the judiciary, the High Council of Justice, and the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, the National Deputies are considering bills aimed only at deepening the problems that already exist. On January 28, the National Deputies planned to vote on Bill 4229, which suggested that judges be elected and appointed. The unreformed High Council of Justice. Also before the Council is Bill 4505, which allows the High Council of Justice to appoint permanent judges who have failed the test of integrity. At the same time, the Committee on Legal Policy has been delaying for several months the approval of a new draft of Law 3711, which will allow the UCC to reboot and unlock the selection and appointment of judges. It is particularly disturbing that members of the committee over the New Year's Eve period have rewrote a previously agreed draft of the bill, nullifying the role of international experts and giving full control over the selection of WCC members into the hands of the GWP. Thus, instead of ensuring a quality and virtuous composition of the judicial authorities, the national MPs only strengthen the disbelieving representatives of the solicitors who took over the seats of the MPs. Transparency International Anti-Corruption Centre, DEJURE Foundation and Automidan." I didn't read a few words. Either you do as people say, and then we'll see that you're really in charge of the people, or you'll vote again for your own insolvent decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u89	I see. Wait. He's from Fatherland. He's a great man. And Germany. Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u90	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the situation is unprecedented. On October 16, 19th, when the law was printed, the constitutional body, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, was actually dissolved. And you have to admit that. And now for a year and six months they've been looking for ways to get around the Constitution, the law of Ukraine, and try to assign those judges to positions that have been vacant for several years. Our position is one. It is necessary to appoint VCCs and then constitutionally appoint judges. Any other way around the law, it's actually going to be the creation of judges of two classes: legal and illegal. And then there will be charges all the way to the European Court of Justice. We won't vote for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u91	The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u92	Sergey the Great, Lugansk. Dear colleagues, the document deals with the completion of the selection of personnel for the courts of Donetské and Lugansk, which are located in the area of conducting an anti-terrorist operation in which justice cannot be carried out. Should we say how important it is to uphold justice in areas where an anti-terrorist operation is being carried out? I think it's not just important, it's very important, and it's not just supporting, it's ensuring its highest level. The vacuum of justice in the Donetsk and Luhansk region in such critical times cannot and should not be. A simple solution is offered. According to the bill, the Supreme Council of Justice is scheduled to hold a competition for the selection of the judges of Donetsk and Lugansk. In our view, this is a completely acceptable solution, and in the future, we need to work out a comprehensive solution to fill the gaps in the courts across Ukraine. Colleagues, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u93	Thank you. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that this law speaks of access to justice by citizens (article 55 of the Constitution): "Ensure access to justice." What's justice if there's no judge's frame? That's what this law is about, that's what it's about, what it's about, what it's about temporarily, what it's about to do to people. I'll tell you, it's not a secret, it's a Supreme Court hearing, it's 5-7 years, it's the same thing. Who are we? The judiciary is our sister, we have to work side by side, because we have to work for the people. And so once again, 131 Constitutions apply and point to the Supreme Council of Justice, which forms a judicial body. The forces attached, including the WCC, were distorted and then destroyed by us. What's with the people?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u95	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Vasil Ivanovich, thank you. Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich. Please turn on Dirdin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u96	Good afternoon, colleagues! I'm asking you to support this Bill 4229 because it is called upon to restore justice. By September 30, 2016, when the candidates in the court had passed all the terms, the contests and their documents were on the bank, one was signed by the President for the appointment of judges, the other was not signed. And when new legislative changes came in on September 30th, 16th, those who didn't get into that category of lucky people were given their papers back. Hence, this law is only bound up with the restoration of justice to be done by the State. So I ask you to support this bill and not to believe the manipulations that are taking place in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall and prepare for the vote. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. Is there no objection? Is there a denial? On the basis of that, then. Please prepare for the vote. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and the Act on the Supreme Council of Justice on the completion of competitive procedures for the appointment of judges of local courts (Registration No. 4229). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:56:13]] For 251 Decision taken. Two factions against. Let's see the factions. "The Servant of the People" – 200, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 23, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "The Future Party" – 2, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 17, "the Non-Factional" – 9. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I suggest you come to the next question, vote on the shortened procedure and take a break. Because we have three minutes left here. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for a shorter procedure for the review of the draft Civil Aviation Air Code Amendment Act (Registration No. 3716). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:57:23]] For 246 Decision taken. There's a break until 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, we continue to work. Invite the national deputies to the hall. The head of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, Pavlovsky Peter Ivanovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u99	Good afternoon! Pavlovsky Peter, "Serial of the People" faction. Colleagues, you are considering a bill that provides for appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Air Code. Change sets out concepts such as a drone aircraft, an unmanned aircraft, a remote pilot. The proposed changes also provide for compulsory liability insurance for damage caused to third parties. In addition, the adoption of the bill will allow the State Aviation Service to develop appropriate aviation rules that will ensure the use of unmanned aircraft. During the committee's discussion with the Ukrainian National Deputies, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Air Code on improving the legislative regulation of unmanned aircraft of civil aviation, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavlovski and others, to be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u100	Thank you. Did you tell the committee everything? Please write down: two for, two for, two for the factions, one for the MP factions and one for the group. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u101	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to a colleague of the Constantine Bondarevo faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u102	Bondarev Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u103	Your Honor, Your Honor! The bill is designed to establish rules and regulations for the operation of unmanned aircraft and remote pilots. Today, in Ukraine, the legal regulation of the use of unmanned aircraft is complex and ambiguous. Legislation requires a certificate of airworthiness for each civilian aircraft and a certificate to comply with the requirements of aviation regulations by companies and organizations operating aircraft, which precludes the use of unmanned aircraft in the business, as is the case abroad. Bill No 3716 repeats the implementation of EU Regulation 2019/947 of 24 May 19 on rules and procedures for the operation of unmanned aircraft. "Paternity" will support this bill in the first reading. We have been approached by many organizations, sports associations that are involved in the exploitation of models, and others about the drafting of this bill, and we will make appropriate amendments to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u104	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u105	Please pass the word to Big Head of Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u106	Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, indeed, the aviation sphere needs to be improved by law now, in connection with the development of unmanned aircraft, their mass application, this is essential. So we urge our colleagues to vote in favour of this bill. "European Solidarity" will vote in favour of Bill 3716 as a basis. We realize that there are a number of standards that still need to be improved before the second reading. All of us, together with interested parties — experts, social organizations or associations working in the field — we work together and now we ask to vote on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u108	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u109	Please give Julia Klimenko the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u110	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u111	Klimenko, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, in general, surely the sector of unmanned aircraft should be regulated, because in Ukraine there are plenty of them and they are used both in agriculture and for military purposes. But there is one thing. This bill clears a rule that was and is in law, where unmanned vessels up to 20 kilograms are not subject to accounting, registration, insurance, and so on. If this standard is completely cleaned and not reduced, for example, to 5 kilograms, it means that any household drones you buy to children in children's shops that weigh 200 grams, 100 grams, any airline models that children make in groups will be subject to mandatory accounting, registration, and liability insurance, which currently amounts to about 3 million dollars. So it turns out that you and I don't classify drones that are used and used in industry, and we're actually driving our citizens who are buying, I don't know, toys to their children for mandatory accounting and registration. We know how accounting and registration are done in our country. This opens up a big, corrupt component that can be. And they also talked about what he's responding to, and it's a bill that fits European standards. No, he's not answering, he's contradicting the European Union's basic Regulation No 2018/1139. So on the first reading, our faction is not ready to support it. It will apply for repairs and acceptances in the form that will actually regulate the market, help it, rather than drive citizens and small household drones into mandatory registration and accounting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u112	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u113	Please pass the word to your colleague, Annie Speedhod. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u114	A speedboat?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u115	It's a speed bump.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u116	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u117	The MP's Party for the Future supports this law in the first reading, because, in fact, the issue of unmanned aircraft needs to be settled and regulated. But we need to remember that we have a number of other problems that need an emergency solution, including aircraft. I don't know if any colleagues here know that, for example, Ukrainian pilots' testimonies don't happen in the European Union and in the world as a whole, which is a big problem for our professionals at work. We also know the problems of the stewardess, who are supposed to be working up to 60 years of age, although this sector is simply making it impossible to meet these requirements. And a lot of colleagues in this area just can't work on retirement and have to move on to other jobs. I think that the Supreme Council should pay attention to this and make sure that a bill is drafted to resolve this issue. Once again, we support the law in the first reading, but for the second reading, it needs certain rights to be more perfect and order all issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u118	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Kisilevski is still motivated. "Trust," "Serve of the people" is for reasons, and then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Kisilevsky Dmitry Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u119	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's an important bill, and it needs to be supported. But it has one important nuance: this bill imposes requirements that will apply to the activities of airlines and rocket models, which is the subject of extra-school education. There are 795 such groups in Ukraine, and they teach about 10,000 children. And this bill is going to require that those aircraft that they're doing as part of their training, and you all know what the state of education we have, these aircraft will also need to be registered, which will actually make it impossible for this field of out-of-school education. So in support of the idea of this bill, we have to make amendments to the second reading that will allow these people who are dealing with children to continue this activity because they are raising the technical elite of our country. And my colleague Roman Gritchcock and I had a meeting with the relevant lecturers of these groups, and we're going to propose second reading rights that I'm going to ask everyone to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u120	Kucher Mikola Ivanovich, then we vote. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u121	Dear colleagues. The "Trust" group generally supports this bill, because it modernizes rather seriously and improves existing regulation in the field of the use of unmanned aircraft. At the same time, we realize that without certain rights, the adoption of this law in the second reading is impossible. Because this law obliges and leads to the fact that the accounting and registration of all aircraft, even toy drones, and even those aircraft that are used by our airlines today, are required by this law. So we are ready to vote in the first reading. But in the second reading, you can accept amendments that regulate aircraft up to 20 kilograms, which are commercially used and which are not commercially used. In addition, we need to include a standard for light aircraft up to 650 kilograms and, of course, some other adjustments that will allow us not to stop the work of our people using drones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u122	Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Air Code for the Improvement of the Legislative Regulation in the Field of Unmanned Aircraft of Civil Aviation (Registration No. 3716). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:46:15.]] For 278 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on specific issues relating to the exercise of habilitary weight control (registration number 3742). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:46:50]] For 244 Decision taken. The head of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, Negulevski Igor Petrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u123	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! The proposed bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on specific issues of habarital weight control (registration number 3742) (since 25.06.2020) has been developed by Ukrainian national deputies Kiselem, Negulewski, Kovalov and others. The purpose of the bill is to improve the implementation of volume-based controls on means of transport, such as the establishment of the rights and obligations of the consignor and the consignee. There is an increase in administrative and economic fines for exceeding the statutory provisions of haberdashery and weights, and requirements for freight-transport consignment notes and legislative approvals of the Criminal Security Code for the collection of wages by road of vehicles and other self-propelled vehicles and machinery, weights or parameters that exceed the standards during the implementation of haberit-weight control. This is an important and necessary bill that will prevent the premature destruction of roadways by overloaded means of transport and, as a result, reduces the excessive cost of budgeting to address the disadvantages of such destruction, thereby allowing more public budget costs to be involved in building a new road infrastructure. The bill is supported by the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Ukraine and Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office supports the bill with some warnings. The Committee on Budget Questions reported that if the law was passed, it could take effect according to legislation. By decision of the Transport and Infrastructure Committee of 04.11.20, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommended that the draft Law (registration number 3742) be adopted on a basis. Please support the adoption of the law as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u124	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Chigoz Ahtem Zeitullajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u125	I'd like to give you the Grand Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u126	Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, in the present circumstances, when it comes to the preservation of roads that have been built both under the previous cadence, of the last Supreme Council, and what is being built now is extremely important to preserve these new roads. And now legislation, unfortunately, has certain gaps, namely, standards where the shipper is not responsible for what he passes on to carriers. This bill regulates these norms, closes these gaps, gives the service responsible for road safety, certain mechanisms of influence and control. That's why we're going to vote in favour of this bill from European Solidarity. Of course, there are norms that need to be further developed for second reading, namely: there are certain positions that relate to deviation from the norm and certain fines, I think we'll talk about it on the committee and submit it. And now we're talking to our colleagues, supporting this bill and voting for it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u128	Brezin Maksim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u129	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The vast majority of Ukraine’s highways have been built for quite some time, and for the time being, road construction cannot withstand the dynamic loads of modern trucks. All of this has been the cause of many road traffic losses today, and road coverings have significant distortions and destruction. The adoption of Bill 3742 will therefore contribute both to the preservation of life and health and to improving road safety, to reducing road traffic accidents, and to preserving from the final destruction of the roadways of general use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u130	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u131	Please pass the word to Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u132	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u133	Klimenko, the Voice faction. In general, we support the purpose of the bill. Of course, to preserve roads, it is necessary to control the load of cars and to control the use of these roads. But there are a lot of nuances in this bill that actually contradict current legislation and lead to the fact that this bill is virtually impossible to implement in reality. So we're going to apply between the first and the second readings, for now we're going to hold on. But even among the lines that are obvious and can now be said, for example, 2 percent of the car's weight varies by 20 tons, over 3,000 dollars, 1 thousand 700 dollars, up to 3,000, 400 dollars. Tell me, please, where did you see the weight complexes in Ukraine that align and measure the cargo with 2 percent? A technical error is between 2 and 7 percent in documents. That's why this bill can lead to the exact opposite: increased bribery, corruption, and unfortunately, the roads will remain the way they are now. So we're going to apply, if our revisions are taken into account, we're definitely going to support it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u134	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u135	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, please pass the word to Jaroslav Dubnevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u136	Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, our Party for the Future Group will support this bill. But we do have a few points to this bill. We understand that the bill will allow for gaps in the legal regulation of haberdashery and weight control, but it should be noted that the warning calls for a forecasting of offences in the area of haberdashery and weight control by means of photo and cinema, video recording in a non-automatic mode. This may create grounds for abuse by officials of gabarit-weight control. Convinced that until the second reading, only the fixation of gabarit-weight violations should be left automatically. And the second question we have to correct is this: the bill provides for the transfer to the car carrier of the authorized official of the Ukratrans security of the documents to which the driver's rights apply. This is contrary to a series of Ukrainian laws, according to which a driver merely presents a document certifying a person or a document confirming a person’s right, in this case a driver’s right. So I hope, and our group will vote on the basis, we will amend, and we ask the Committee, the Transport Committee, to take our amendments into account, in order to prevent the abuse of officials on non-automatic control and to remove the issue of transfer of rights to the driver of a security officer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u138	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich with motive. Bondarev with a motive. And then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Considering that the bill provides for amendments to the administrative code, it would certainly be logical for our Committee on Legal Policy to be the main one on the relevant amendments proposed by the bill. On the other hand, we are concerned today about a situation that has not yet been addressed as it should be, the provision of a road freight control system. They are today, the control systems themselves, actually using the shifts. We hear that there will also be systems that are already built into the roads, but this must be done in places where they cannot be bypassed. In the meantime, unfortunately, according to our individual colleagues, the great temptation is a corrupt and corrupt component of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u140	Thank you. Bondarev Constantine Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u141	Yes, there are indeed a number of discussion issues that are planned to be taken into account in preparing for the second reading. Among other things, I want to set the scale of the error of the weighing complexes during the measurement process; the exemption from payment of the court-martial by Ukratrans during the examination of cases in all pre-trial institutions; the order of payment by Ukratrans, for driving by road with violations of the rules; and a number of other shortcomings that will need to be addressed in the second reading. But the people of Ukraine spent their money on road construction in 2020. I believe that we must support this bill in order to warn them of their premature destruction, and we will support this bill. And the second reading needs to be followed up on all these discussion issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u142	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts on specific issues of the exercise of habilitary weight control (registration No. 3742). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:58:09]] For 308. Decision taken. Arahami is a procedure. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u143	Colleagues, we have Bill 3157 on electronic paperwork, including the Supreme Council. There are very few observations at all. I suggest you lift him up in the morning and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u144	This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies on Electronic Documentary Process, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (from 25.11.2020) (registration No. 3157). There is a proposal to change the momentum of this plenary session. Is there no objection? We can get to the point. The representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u145	Dear Mr. Golovo, Honorary Colleagues, on 4 November 2020, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine on Electronic Documentary Process (Registration No. 3157). The President of Ukraine considers the law to be extremely important and supports the need to expand the scope of electronic documents and use electronic documents. At the same time, it cannot be signed in view of the following. Thus, among other things, the law provides for the introduction of an electronic form of documentation for the Ukrainian people’s deputies next to the paper, namely, the submission of a parliamentary request, the sending of a parliamentary request, the request of a national MP for an end to the rule of law. It should be noted, however, that the proposed changes do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine in part with the lack of prescriptions imposed on the heads of state authorities and local authorities, enterprises, institutions and organizations to report to the Ukrainian National Deputy on the outcome of the hearing he has sent, in accordance with the form in which the request was made. And the second. It does not comply with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules in part with the obligation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to send a text of a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine along with a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the law does not take into account that not all businesses, institutions, organizations, and associations of citizens to whom a parliamentary request has been made have been sent by the MP or by the request of the Ukrainian national MP for an end to the rule of law, are subject to electronic documents, users of electronic trust services, and have the technical and financial capacity to comply with the relevant legislation. In addition, the possibility of unwarranted involvement of officials in businesses, institutions, and organizations, unifications of citizens for failure to respond electronically to the Ukrainian national deputy as a result of technical problems and other unforeseen circumstances has been left out of the law. In view of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine proposes to exclude from the text of the law the obligation to respond to a parliamentary request, an appeal in accordance with the form in which it was introduced. Instead, it leaves an opportunity for Ukrainian citizens, businesses, institutions, organizations to choose the format of the answer electronically or paperly. In view of this, Your Honor, I ask you to support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Finally, he agrees with this law. But such an amendment must be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u146	Ruslan Alexiyovich, questions. Will there be any questions? We can vote, thank you. Now, a minute of the committee and we move on to the vote. Is there no objection? Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u147	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting on 11 December, the Regulatory Committee considered the President-returned Act of Ukraine on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies on Electronic Documentary Process. As just stressed by Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, the President generally supports the idea of introducing electronic documentation into the activities of the national deputies, but he believes that responding to the MP should take place regardless of the form in which the parliamentary requests were sent. So the committee has taken into account the President's proposals and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support this Law on the electronic form of documentation, taking into account the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, I am now. There's only one proposal. I put her to the vote first. Then I place the law on the vote as a whole, taking into account the committee’s proposals. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, you've got one piece of paper written by you, dear colleagues. Sorry, colleagues, the camera's a little off. Three orders from the President of Ukraine. I now put all three of them to the vote. Then I put the law to the vote as a whole. Vote number one of the President of Ukraine. It's counted. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:04:19]] For 295 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote number two of the President of Ukraine. It's counted by the committee. Please support and vote. [[13:04:42]] For 295 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote number three of the President of Ukraine. It's also counted by the committee. Please support and vote. [[13:05:03]] For 292 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the President's proposals, of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies on Electronic Documentary Process, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (from 25.11.2020) (Registration No. 3157). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:05:44]] For 318 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs (registration number 3236, 3236-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:06:20]] For 254 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Demchenko Sergey Alexiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, before telling us what this bill was about, wanted to draw attention to the history of this issue, from which it all began. A letter named Demchenka’s national deputy, Sergija Alexiyovich. "In accordance with the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs, the rate of government duty is bound to the non-taxed minimum of citizens' income of 17 dollars. Today, a copy of one page of the document holds 17 copies, 85 copies of the will, 34 copies of the signature, 51 copies of the duplicate, 85 copies of the marriage registration. We think that these kinds of state-of-the-art duties are now out of date. How can the rural budget be filled with the following rates: $40 a year? We ask you to contribute to the amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, namely: to change the cost of signing a pledge from 85 copies to 42 50 copies, from 17 copies to 17 dollars, from 34 copies to 34 bracelets, from 51 copies to 51 bracelets. It should also be borne in mind that, since October 1, 2019, the National Bank of Ukraine has withdrawn 1, 2 and 5 coins from its circulation. Hopefully, the questions raised will be supported. Acting as the village head of the Novotarom Rural Council. ” Colleagues, it's not a question of making someone pay more. The question is that we cannot perform appropriate services today at the level of rural councils. People come and they can't even count. Where are you going to take the money out of circulation today? You don't have any copies. And people either do it for free, or they don't do it at all, or they take bribes. Unfortunately, there is an alternative bill that has otherwise accepted the logic of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u150	The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy of the Gethmans Danilo Aleksandrovich is invited to attend. Please give me four minutes, both from the committee and from the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in keeping with what Comrade Demchenko has said, I will note that this bill was drafted at the request of local self-government authorities. What he's talking about. It's about looking at government rate rates that haven't been reviewed since 93. Think about inflation, and think about the changes that have taken place in society. Since 93, the stakes that have been remain the same. I would like to remind you once again: the signing of the wills is 85 copies, the commission is 51 copies, and the signature on the documents is 34 copies. Less than that piece of paper at the cost of notarial action. That's what this leads to. This leads to the failure of our citizens to save money, resulting in local governments simply refusing or, by doing so, taking money for their actions under another assignment, thus committing corruption. In fact, by not addressing this issue, we are pushing the authorities of local self - government to commit corruption. We propose to increase in the alternative bill, which is supported by the committee, the licence of the will to 225 dollars, the commission to 170 dollars, the signature to 170 dollars. It's like that. We do not insist on these amounts, and we believe that by the second reading these amounts can be reviewed. If it's only about the cost of these services, we're willing to look at the committee level, at the cost of reducing them. But what they can't be 51 cents is obvious things that you can't even argue about. Why has this issue not been resolved since 1993? You will now hear the answer from some opposition representatives who, unfortunately, are in a destructive position. Because customs, like any tax, increase unpopularly. But is it popular when a person is not at all able to use this service at the level of an old age or an authorized OTG person today? Is this popular when we place a local authority on the brink of corruption? Is it popular to make or engage in populism when a country requires clear and informed decisions? I call on the House to support this bill in the first reading, just as the Committee recommends, and to focus on having us in the community, in the room between all factions, discuss and accept acceptable rates of duty as for local self-government bodies that require the adoption of this bill and for our fellow citizens, so that these rates are not too burdensome for them. And for the second reading, it's meant to be, colleagues, we'll be able to do it with you. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, against, speaking from MP factions and groups. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u153	Dear Mr. Head, I give the floor to a colleague of the Larissa Mikolayovna Bilozer group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u154	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u155	Colleagues, the honourable chairman, colleagues, the "Trust" Group will support this bill because, despite the fact that they are now running such a treachery about 100 times, 200 bets are raised in notarial assemblies, in fact, for notarial actions. If it was 17 copies and it's 17 bracelets, yes, it's 100 times, but it's absolutely reasoned, by price analogy. Signature certificate is 170. Imagine, earlier, there were 85 copies of the certificate in the will, 34 copies of the certificate. And these are the costs that the state notary offices are going to receive, and I want to emphasize the state and executive committees of the local councils. So there's going to be an increase in local income, and these costs are going to go into the budgets of the communities. And what I'm saying is that the Customs Act hasn't been revised since 1993. And that's why this chaos that's happening today, in the customs, in the congregations, in the licensing congregations, which are called different, according to pay today, is governed by the law and the Cabinet regulations, and what they want, they do there. You know, the Ministry of Justice can take 250 dollars for the murder, when it's supposed to be free, even though there's 30 days if you want to wait for it for free. Do you know how a marriage is registered? From 3,000 to 12,000. And there are 85 copies in the local budgets. That's why we're going to support this bill, but it only solves a partial problem. That's why we've also registered the 4382 Amendment Bill, which is also supported by the EU Ambassador, who will standardize normal prices at CNAPs, that they are at least price at CNAPs to at least be self-sacrifice. Therefore, I urge you not to engage in populist activities and to support this bill, to support communities and state notaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u156	Urban Anatoly Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u157	Please pass the word to Krulk Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u158	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u159	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, fellow Urbanski, for your word. You know the colleagues, especially the Ukrainians who listen to us, at last, we have all the questions in the country: tariffs have been reduced, pensions and salaries have been raised, and now the last thing we have left to do is look at the rates of government duty to make people pay a little bit more. And I'll say, the will certificate is proposed to be increased by 300 times, the errands, up to 750 times, the true copies, 100 times, the trueness of each signature on the documents -- 500 times, the transfer of citizens' applications -- 17 times, the issue of notary certificates -- 160 times. It's okay, isn't it? And what I'm saying is that right now, right now, Parliament, those who are going to vote for this want to show people what kind of policy in the state is being implemented. Because if social policies are being implemented in the state at least a little bit, then these dragon increases are 500, 750 times just unacceptable. I'm not saying that it would be good for Parliament to consider the State Customs Act, not to amend the 93rd Decree that Kabmin adopted in King Horoch's time. We had to adopt the law and set the right time for everything. And more than that, if we have a secretary of the village council or a board of OTG at work, the mayor in the village gets a salary. Please tell me to confirm the signature, make a seal. What, do you have to take off some other fee for that? Maybe it's easy because a citizen who lives in his neighborhood pays taxes. These taxes charge the village’s old age. So maybe this kind of action is socially meaningful, you could do it at the expense of local budgets and not collect it from people, and I don't say raise it 500 times. Yeah, you don't have to wear those receipts. So let's cancel them completely. Such changes to the Law of the Detainable Ones should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u160	Thank you. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u161	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u162	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u163	Thank you, Your Honourable Vassil Ivanovich, Mr. Head. I would like to draw attention to what our previous speaker has said about the fact that a multiple increase of 100 and more times individual positions does not correspond to common sense or economic relevance. First. The other one. As far as the village council is concerned, I understand their suggestions in a letter from the author of the first bill. However, in my view, it would be necessary to review and raise an untaxed minimum of citizens’ income. If you were to pick it up and review all the other derivatives, you would balance it. You, on the one hand, have at least 6,000, and people actually get 4,000, 830 dollars. This time. The other one. You're offering to give me 170 bracelets for the signature. And you know that the minimum pension is 1769 dollars, this tenth part of the pension is already going to testify to the signature. I'm not talking about any third derivative of other things anymore. This is where we have to start from raising the minimum income of citizens and not taxing the minimum wage that is today. We have this bill -- 2444 -- that's exactly what we're talking about. One second. We have a progressive scale of taxation in the country. And we are taxed on our wages: 18.5 per cent is taxed on the income of individuals, 1.5 per cent of the military community, and people who receive income pay dividends on shares in size -- attention -- 5 per cent. 5 percent of their income is taxed! You and I are paying 19.5 out of our salary. So in terms of total poverty in Europe's poorest country, at average monthly per capita wage, you start asking questions, colleagues, that's not what you're starting with. So our party won't support and vote, we're against such a draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u164	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u165	I'd like a word with you, Mrs. Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u166	Nina Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, the commentators on this very question, I think it's a legal profession. Therefore, it would be a shame for them to submit amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers decree of January 21, 1993. There are problems with the existence of this decree not only in parts of such small stakes but also in other essential rules that need to be regulated. This applies, for example, to the judicial congregation. We all know that we have a judicial assembly on the basis of the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly. But it is being recalled, and there is also this: the State's duty is to deal with the prenuptial claims according to the decree. So the changes, absolutely, needed to be made with a new law that dealt with all of the issues, including the rates of government duty. But if you go back to the second part of the proposed changes, it actually looks very cynical during the pandemic to raise even the government's tax on the pledges. Tell me, please, do you really think, Mr. Head, that this is our very urgent question right now to consider raising the State's moment for the signing of the wills? I think it's cynical of us to look at least. On the other hand, remember that the government’s duty of government notaries and executive committees is the social function of our state, since it is these institutions that are financed by budgets. So it is absolutely not worth talking about that the poor have no means of subsistence, that is, financing these institutions that bear witness.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u168	Iron. I see, Fries. Francis, Ironborn, then we go to the vote. Fries Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u169	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, I've been listening to one side, the other side, and I've been mentioning for a very long time when I've been working with a private notary, and I'm reminded of the state notary offices that did the government's duty according to the law. Friends, do you know what a government tax is? State Customs is compensation for the services provided by the State. Do you think a lot of us can make up for the salary of an executive committee employee or a state notary office with 85 copies for a certified will? I'm sure there won't be any compensation. Same thing as 17 copies for the signature card. And this is time, and this is work, and this is basically what the state should do. So the rise is absolutely logical. It's not going to come out at the total cost of a notary action. Because, believe me, it does not cost a will of 85 copies, it costs much more, considering that government notarial offices, including extra fees for legal services. And it costs more in total. It's not going to make a difference.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u170	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u171	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Colleagues, you know, that's not where you start. The oligarchs have reduced their rent on fossils, and ordinary people want to raise their stakes on government services. Yeah, clearly, these rates are pretty old, because they're 28 years old, and they need to be reviewed, because they're filling into local budgets, including the Voice, which are consistently resilient. But you can't do that one minute at 300, 500, 700 times when our country's tariffs went up fast, when a significant proportion of the population lost jobs during the past year when we had an economic crisis. We're going to review this bill between the first and second readings, make our suggestions about the rates that should be, and then we're going to decide how to vote in the second reading. And in the first reading, we will not support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u172	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? No, there's already been a performance from The Servant of the Nation. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs (Registration No. 3236-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:25:48]] For 217 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to refer to the committee for a re-reading of the draft Law registration number 3236-1. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:26:24]] For 246 Decision taken. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Dmitri Andriovich Nataluha.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u173	Thank you, dear colleagues, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Colleagues, "Cosmos will be either Ukrainian or it doesn't exist," with this phrase, I jokingly finished my speeches on this rostrum every time I introduced the laws on reform of the space sector of Ukraine that we have submitted to our committee, as well as with other colleagues of Bezgin, Grishko and Kisilevski. It is said that every joke has the fate of truth, and the truth is that as a result of the committee's joint activities, together with the leadership of the space agency, we were able to achieve an unprecedented result -- get to a clear start date for the first Ukrainian satellite from the future Ukrainian satellite group. It's not a joke, it's the date of December 26, 2021 this year. This is the date that was agreed on in the general graph for the completion of the design of the Sic-2-1 space system DKAU, the management of the South Bank and the general leading designers of this office. The important thing is that it doesn't need any extra money, because we've reduced this from $6 million to $1 million. And this is all the work of the leadership of the State Space Agency. But any of the most unprecedented projects often can't withstand a personal test. Unfortunately, it seems that there is little room in this case, because in addition to launching a satellite, DKAU's management has been engaged in a different direction of inventory in state-owned enterprises and investigating violations of ownership and use of state property. I'm going to stop at the most screaming DP Arsenal. His leader, Mr. Volostuk, who has been in office since 2004, 17 years old, is a figure of at least five criminal cases and conducts, sold and estranged 42,000 square metres of water assets and at least 6 hectares on Mečnikov Street, 8, all known in the Arsenal Metro area. Moreover, the number of workers since 2004 has decreased from 25,000 workers to 206, and the volume of production in the factory has decreased from 16 million to 260 thousand, resulting in losses. All these materials were transferred to the Henprosecutor’s Office and to the NABU, and DKAU’s leadership began the process of removing them. To remove this person, the State Space Agency filed an application to reconcile this decision with the Ministry of Commerce. Because before that, you all know Judge Wolfe has given you his approval to ban Mr. Woloshchuk's release. That was December 24th last year. Minstrategprom returned to DKAU for two weeks with a document, but it was not agreement on the release of Voloschuk, but a statement on the beginning of the replacement of the leadership of the State Space Agency. Obviously, we see in this effort to direct the Minstrategprom to cover up its old and former colleagues, which is totally unacceptable, which has been embalming and disrupting the space sector since 2004. We consider this competition illegal and we will dispute our own attempts to sabotage the activities of the space agency in spite of the State's interests in the interests of our own interests. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u174	No, no. Thank you. Dmitri Andriyovich, the rules are all the same. Dear colleagues, we turn to the next issue of the agenda - the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the status of national and effective administration of educational institutions and state property (registration number 4486). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:30:31]] For 235 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u175	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed for consideration by the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the status of national and effective administration of educational institutions and state property (registration number 4486). The draft law is designed to improve the procedure for the provision of higher education to institutions of national status and to scientific institutions of the status of the national scientific centre and the creation of appropriate facilities for the administration of educational institutions and the state property attached to them. The bill proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine on education, on higher education, on higher education, on higher education, and so on in the process of improving the national status and administration of educational institutions and state property that is attached to them. The bill, if approved, will contribute to the creation of powerful educational institutions to meet the educational needs of society in the labour market in appropriate professionals and to improve competitive opportunities for quality higher and professional higher education. There is a need to eliminate the spread of educational institutions that train for the same or related specialties and to organize a network of educational institutions. I inform you, this will be discussed by another committee head, that this bill has been signed by a large number of committee members and voted by an absolute majority. Therefore, I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. And there, between the first and the second readings, we're going to take all the constructive adjustments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u176	The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation, Babak Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u177	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This is actually a necessary bill that awaits most of the education community. It specifies the conditions of the public private partnership in the field of education and gives them some additional impetus, legislatively improves the procedure for granting the status of national higher education institutions, which has been honorable since last year. And the most important problem he solves is the integration of universities, including national status. When the universities of the past and this year wanted to unite to create a more powerful and quality higher education facility, we faced a legislative problem that did not allow us to unite. It allows legal entities to be united, but it does not allow property to be merged because property is forbidden to be merged in higher education institutions with national status. So this law solves this problem and enables us to create really powerful university and scientific centers. The committee also considered the bill at its meeting and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt Bill 4486 as a basis and prepare it for the second reading on a simplified procedure. Thank you, colleagues. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u178	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u179	Please, National Deputy Princely Nikola Leonidovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u180	Please pass the word to Rostislav Pavlovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u181	Rostislav Pavlenko, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please spare room so that people can get to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u182	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. Dear colleagues, the issues that the bill seeks to resolve really need to be settled. The direction taken in general has the right to life. But that's the question that's particularly relevant in the property settlement part, first of all, requires very careful identification of all the mechanisms so that we don't have to be tempted to use the property of higher education institutions, and so that we don't get the situation, as it was a few decades ago, when someone's assets grew up on these property complexes. Secondly, we cannot create a situation where senior management will have to conduct additional administrative procedures to verify what property is being used and report each time. So we're proposing a situation where we expect a second reading of the correction of the sins that are in the bill, and we're going to hold on to the first reading. If, in the second reading, the comments we've been making are corrected, I think we're going to work together on that, then we can support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u183	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u184	Please pass the word to Inni Sussoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u185	Another Sousun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u186	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. The problem that this bill is aimed at actually exists. Let's be honest, in Ukraine, we have a network of higher education institutions, which is set at 52 million people today. Yeah, we really do have universities that haven't been used in a long time. These facilities, unfortunately, are in a terrible state and really need a different approach and adequate care. At the same time, we believe that under today's conditions, the direct privatization or permission to privatize any university premises is indeed dangerous. I'll tell you why. Let's start with what the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine calls himself a person who has already stolen the dissertation and stole the post of Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. Another example. The results of the elections at the National Aviation University, where Makim Lutsky became Rector, a man who openly fought for access to university land to build a building there. So the question of possible privatization is obviously going to have to be corrected for second reading. But at the same time, we cannot just freeze the problem and pretend that it cannot be solved. That's why the Voice Party will support this bill in the first reading, but we're very hopeful that we'll be closing down the laziness to privatize the university property that is now being laid down in this bill. And separately, we're talking to the majority party representatives. We would like the same attention to be given to draft laws by opposition representatives when we offer them, including in the educational field. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u187	The word is given to the national MP, Irina Miroslavovni, the parliamentary group "For the Future".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u188	Irina Konstanovic, Future Group. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we welcome the fact that in the Hall we are looking at drafts that relate to university higher education, and these are really relevant and important issues. But at the same time, after careful consideration of the bill, we see that there are rules alongside progressive norms that allow for corruption. Because property is always, unfortunately, in our society where corruption has not yet been overcome, it is a risk and an opportunity for corruption. So we've previously consulted with the rectors, we've had a few discussions, and we think there's this field for the corruption component right now. In view of this, the Future Group will be retained in the first reading. And secondly, if these corruption risks are eliminated, of course we will support autonomy and property issues of higher university education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u189	The word is given to the National Deputy Sobolje Sergey Vladislavovich, please. Ivan Grigorovich, please. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u190	I would like to say first of all that in our Committee on Science and Education there are extremely professional initiative deputies and, above all, patriots of Ukraine from the field we care about. This is a compliment to the committee and from the point of view of the experience I have. Every draft law goes through a serious public mine through public organizations, professional associations, a wide-ranging expertise, and so almost every bill we have has 300 or more votes. The only thing we all miss, including our committee, is the experience and ability to make adjustments to our realities and typical homeland reality. And here, unfortunately, we're not yet Europe. The point of this reality is that those who take our laws and our good intentions into arms can read between lines, and then everything is allowed, which is clearly not prohibited. I recall the adoption of the Reformed Market Revolution Law on Privatisation in one of the first references to the hurrah in this room. Everything seemed to be included: mechanisms, tools, approaches, and fuses, but it seemed almost inconceivable that nearly five sixths of the nation’s national wealth had been sold out at a price of almost $10 billion. The grandeur of the scandal and the affair became clear when after the insistence of Yulia, Timoshenko was reprivatized of the "Crowryztal". In other words, the state was under $400 billion in lacquers and equipment. He asks why they're poor. From this same opera, by some miracle, children's kindergartens in Ukraine went pricelessly out of the hammer. And today, young families line up in these facilities or drive their children to the opposite side of the city with nerves, health, and the right mood. And local budgets are forced to build these non-cost facilities. Would it not be the same sad story in this law? So we want, friends, to support this law in our second reading, when we clean it up for our second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u191	Thank you. Bilozer is a motive. Then we go to the vote. Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u192	Larissa Bilozer, trust MP. You know, it's definitely not a law on effective education management, it's rather a law on how to sell property to educational institutions. Of course, there are normal standards here. And when I saw this law, I did it first because I have, in Winnitzkin, for example, an agrarian college has a room that is not used. And it would be very good to have 59 teams of our guys who are supposed to be there on a permanent basis. But here the law amended the law on education laws, higher education laws, and the vocational education institutions to which this college refers have not been amended. So I think there's a lot of work to be done here, there's a lot of caution here, we can have a lot of abuse and a lot of property that no one will really need. And it's also in conflict with the Privatization Act, and money has to go to the state budget, not to education. That's why I have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u193	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the status of national and effective administration of educational institutions and state property (registration number 4486). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:43:34]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. Show the factions, please. The procedure is Nikolainka. Please turn on the microphone, Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u194	Colleagues, I'm a reporter for 2805, next bill of order, agrarian receipts. There is an offer, if no one objects, to remove it today and to work on the committee. As far as I know, this is the consolidated position of all factions, I've had a conversation with everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u195	No objection, dear colleagues? Okay. Let's move on to the next order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the only legal portion of the land and its object of real estate) (0850), which is the second reading. Solski Mikola Tarasovich, head of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, is invited to the rostrum. Would you please tell me who's going to insist on editing? Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the sole legal fate of the land and its real estate object) (registration No. 0850). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:45:18]] For 297 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to include information on the state border of Ukraine in the State Land cadastre. This is also a second reading (registration number 3987). Dear colleagues, will anyone insist on the papers? Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of information on the state border of Ukraine (registration number 3987). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:46:22]] For 294 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next question is the draft Act amending article 18 prime. 7 The Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children on Increasing Aid for Children with Serious Diseases (Registration No. 2024). Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending article 18 prima. 7 The Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children to Increase Children’s Aid and Serious Diseases (Registration No. 2024). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:47:25]] For 345. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next question is the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase responsibility for criminal offences against journalists (registration number 3633). Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for criminal offences against journalists (registration number 3633). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:48:18]] For 341 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the day’s agenda is the bill of honoring the memory of the Ukrainians who rescued the Jews during World War II (registration number 4479). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:48:51]] For 295 Decision taken. The first deputy head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Irina Miroslavovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, the memory of the Holocaust is an important component of Ukrainian national memory policy. Recently, we honored the memory of the Holocaust victims. 2021 is another year of 80 years of memory of the tragic events in Baba Jar. Ukrainian events have been described by individual historians as the holocaust of bullets. Compared with other areas of occupied Europe in Ukraine, the help of Jews was far more complex and dangerous, since all the residents who provided it were themselves at risk of death. The Nazis punished not only the person who provided help but also the entire family. Despite thousands of victims, mass executions, and prisons, the Jews were assisted. Under extremely difficult conditions, thousands of Ukrainians risked their own lives and lives by saving the Jews from the destruction of the Nazis. Today, there are about 2,000 of such small "grandmother's fairs" in Ukraine. Examples of this feat of the activities of the Metropolitan of Ukraine-Catholic Church of Andrey Sheptick, his brother, are known. It is to them and to more than 2,000 other Ukrainians that the nation of Israel is assigned the title "The Righteous One of the Nations of the World". According to the Memorial Complex of the Holocaust of Your Poison in Jerusalem, 2,000,573 Ukrainians have been assigned the title "The Righteous Peoples of the World". Ukraine is the fourth "righteous" country in the world. Sadly, some 20 of these people are now alive, and in time they are becoming fewer and fewer. As a sign of respect for Ukrainian citizens who rescued Jews from Nazi destruction and solidarity, an initiative is proposed to establish the Day of Remembrance of Ukrainians who rescued Jews during World War II. The draft decree, in addition to the practice of approving the festival days, establishes May 14 as the Day of Remembrance of Ukrainians who rescued Jews during World War II. The draft decree also gives separate recommendations to the executive authorities regarding the implementation of the marked day of memory. As a result of its consideration of December 16, 20th, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft decree on honouring the memory of the Ukrainians who saved the Jews during World War II, on the basis of and in general. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u197	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u198	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs. Irina, as the first author of this decision, for her maturity. And I'm sorry that we're actually only 30 years of independence at last. Because it's about the maturity of all of us, our political nation, the Ukrainian people, to know about the people who made history. And imagine the power that our people have. The people, who went through the three famines themselves, genocides, actually managed and had the strength, courage, courage to reach out and save the people who were near them. What's more, you know, I want to remind you here in this room of a figure that actually annoys many, but it unites many, because it's our common story. For example, Roman Shuhevich, whose family also saved the Jewish family. Especially a 7-year-old girl named Irina Rychenberg. And when Roman Shuhevich’s wife was taken away from the Gestapo, Roman’s friend was still able to make papers and take the girl to the orphanage where she survived. And so thousands and millions of examples in Ukraine, when Ukrainians stretched out their hand and stood side by side. Because none of you know how you will behave during a period of war or a period of persecution, oppression, and risk of life. Moreover, I am pleased that my instructor, Mr. Andrew Pashuk, the Kingdom of Heaven, the instructor of the Lviv National University of John Frank, was one of those who set the example, and whose parents rescued and hid a Jewish family in their home. It's actually a great honor for me to learn about this ethics and humanism. So again, thank you to those who signed this decree. This is about our maturity and about our respect, first of all, for ourselves and for the great heart of Ukrainians who are still reaching out for help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u199	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u200	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Indeed, respected colleagues in Ukraine are very many places where buried people, Jews, were affected by the terror of World War II. I can also give such examples in the Plains. In my hometown of Sarna, when I carried out the duties of the city’s head, we also honored the graves where the bodies of the Jewish people, the Gypsies, were fixed. Because, according to various testimonies, I was fortunate enough to associate with a woman who miraculously became alive and saved her life by being in that grave, it is estimated, in the city of Sarna in the Plains that some 13 to 15 thousand Jews were destroyed. Of course, these are the sad stories of war in the history of Europe and mankind. But at the same time, our Ukrainians, who at the cost of risking their lives, realizing that they would be destroyed, the Jewish people, the Gypsies, they hid them, allowed them to be kept in their homes, in the funerals of those people. And today, by this decree, we must immediately vote, allowing the authorities of the local self - government to honor such Ukrainians who helped the Jews, to take action in the areas where it happened. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour and call the entire hall to the same. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u201	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u202	Please pass the word to the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u203	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u204	Dear friends, obviously "European Solidarity" will support this project, it is extremely important. I want to draw attention to some of the facts that we need to know about. You know, not all Ukrainians who saved the Jews are now declared righteous. For example, your poison in Israel or in another State. But they saved innocent people, such as the Metropolitan Andrey Shepticki, mentioned here, and we should keep them in mind. We should keep in mind Father Kovch, who along with the people he provided and spiritual support to people of different faiths and nationalities, Jews and Poles, went to the concentration camp together for destruction. We must remember many others. But we need to see what's happening now. Do you know what's going on in Baba's Yar? And now over 2,000 Jews, descendants of those who were destroyed, and Ukrainian patriots of Ukraine, have written a request to Zelensky to support the very Ukrainian concept of the memorialization of Baba Jar, developed by our Ministry of Culture, the Academy of Sciences, not the Russian Academy, which is now being implemented, where Ukrainians are being shown not by those who supported and rescued Jews, but by those who want us to hang labels and blame us for the aggressors and enemies of Ukraine. You know, right now, right now in Baba's Jar, where there was a cemetery and Jewish burials, and the Cyril Orthodox Cemetery, they want to build a pseudo-synagogue to provoke a conflict between the Ukrainians and the Jews. Do you know that the Ukrainian authorities support the Russian project, not the Ukrainian project? You know, vote. Let us remember everyone who died, everyone who saved the Jews, and everyone who thinks now about our peaceful future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u205	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u206	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I ask you to pass the word to Schuffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u207	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u208	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I am absolutely convinced that this is the very question that will unite all of us today. Sadly, our joys do not yet unite us. We have a lot of controversy, we have a lot of criticism today, and we have a lot to criticize. Unfortunately, people's lives are not such that we, as representatives of the people of Ukraine today, have the opportunity to rejoice for our citizens. But this tragedy that took place during the Great Homeland War, and I'm talking about this period right now, because it was able to save the 39th to 41st years and, let's say, put off the terrible genocide of the Jews in Ukraine. You can estimate these events differently, this period from the 39th to the 41st. But the Warsaw ghetto, unfortunately, had a place in this period. And the terrible tragedies that Europe has experienced have come to us since June 22, 41. And I bow low today to those who have taken the courage to risk and give up my life while preserving the lives of Ukrainian Jews. They hid them, gave them the opportunity to survive, and gave their lives for it. So I am absolutely, rejecting now all our contradictions, including our attitude, and the evaluation of the individual events of the Great Homeland War, calling on all to unite around the celebration of the memory of the great Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u209	Thank you. Bujansky with a motive. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u210	My dear colleagues, I certainly urge you to support this bill and honor the memory of every Ukrainian, everyone who has helped to preserve the lives of the Holocaust victims. But all of a sudden, I heard that the family of Officer Abberu, a German Aubrey, Shuhevich was helping a Jewish girl. It's a myth, it's an open lie, it's a lie, and it disgraces the very thought, it speculates on this determination. I urge you to maintain the memory of those who helped, not to speculate. Suhevich is Officer Abveru. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u211	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the bill on honouring the memory of the Ukrainians who saved the Jews during World War II (registration number 4479). Ready? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[2:02:59]] For 344 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you, colleagues. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the definition of the pricing system for the construction of public roads (Registration No. 2234). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:03:41]] For 241 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Negulewski Igor Petrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u212	Honourable Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, is invited to your attention by a revised bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on pricing in the construction of general road (registration number 2234) (worked since 04.11.20), developed by national deputies Negulewski, Kisiel and others. Yes, the Supreme Council of Ukraine 20.09. In 19 the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine was adopted in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Standardization (No. 124-IX), which took effect on 16.10. 20 years, and the amendments to article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Investment and Article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices. In particular, there's a new terminology: cost standards and pricing standards in construction. The authorizations for the approval of cost-effective rules and regulations are reinforced by the Ministry of Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine. My bill, registration number 2234, has been developed to take account of the above-mentioned Ukrainian law and provides for amendments to article 17 of the Ukrainian Investment Act and article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices. The essence of change. The transfer from the central executive authority, which provides for the formation and implementation of state policy in the area of construction, construction and architecture, the authority for the development of methodologies, rules and regulations for the defined cost of new construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of public roads, and the establishment of procedures for their application to the central executive authority, which ensures the formation and implementation of public policy in the field of road economy. The Committee on Economic Development concluded that the draft could be recommended and adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u213	The deputy head of the Committee on Economic Development, Kisilevsky Dmitry Davidovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u214	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on 7 December 2020, in video conference mode, considered a revised draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the definition of pricing in the construction of public roads (registration No. 2234) and submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine to the Negulevsky and other National Deputies. As indicated in the explanatory note, the project is designed to determine the responsibility for the formation of a pricing system in the construction of public roads by the central executive authority, which provides for the formation and implementation of state policies in the field of road agriculture, for the further adaptation of the domestic pricing system in the construction of public roads to better world practices. The Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, in its letter to the committee, supports the bill. As a result of the discussion, Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on Economic Development, decided to submit a revised draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the definition of the pricing system for the construction of public roads (Registration No. 2234) for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the outcome of the first reading to accept it as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u215	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u216	Please pass the word Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u217	Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u218	Thank you, Annie, for the word. The bill proposes that the Ministry be empowered to provide the building regulations and repair the maintenance of the roadways to transfer to the Ministry of Infrastructure. On the one hand, this will allow us to trust the pricing system for the construction of the roadways of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is familiar with the sector. On the other hand, the drafters do not provide an answer as to whether the Ministry of Infrastructure has adequate capacity and, above all, resources to do such work. It seems that the proposed transition from one office to another cannot be done at one time. We already have examples of the unification of ministries and other bad examples. However, the bill does not provide for any transitional period. That's why our Party for the Future Group is ready to support this bill. But we stress the need to provide for a transitional period and finance for the work of the relevant department in the Ministry of Infrastructure before second reading. Because in order not to depend on documents, normative acts developed on road concessions as well as normative documents on prices and pricing. Thank you for your attention. And I'd like you to support this as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u219	Thank you. Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u220	Dear Mr. Head, the presidency, the colleagues! In keeping with Mr. Dubnevich's opinion, I would like to say that the bill in question is a work in progress, and it was submitted in 07.10.2019. At the same time, what I'm saying is that the position of the project does not determine the pricing system for the construction of general road construction, as stated in the title, and is aimed at the transfer of power. Especially when we're talking about transferring one central authority to another central authority. When we're drafting a new bill, and it's still a project, we immediately see that two laws on road roads and investment should be changed in some ways, and that would lead to conflict and risk. The third position is that the GNEU says that it is necessary to amend these two bills, not only explicitly, but then we will have a disagreement between the two laws that are in force today. Along with our consideration of him at the committee meeting, we went back three times to this initiative in various editions, and there was no unanimous opinion. And I also want to say that by the time the national construction standard is approved, the transfer to the central executive authority of such broad powers as the bill provides for is very risky. When we divide the cost of building into two parts, which is determined by the Minregio's approved cost of norms and regulations, it does not include the roadways of general use. And when we're talking about mini infrastructure and the cost of new construction and reconstruction, there's really some disagreements that we need to balance today. We're going to stick around in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u221	Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u222	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Rušišin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u223	Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u224	Jaroslav Rušišin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u225	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u226	Thank you, Your Honor. In the course of the previous reports, but the causal link here is probably going to be reversed. Thus, effective monitoring of the quality of road development projects can be done by the quality of the tasks provided by the department of profile. The proposed changes do not fully reflect the idea of the bill and change the pricing system in the construction of public road construction and are simply aimed at transferring regulatory powers, pricing in this area from one ministry to another without significant changes. It's called the concentration of decision-making in one central executive body structure without sufficient grounds, at least I didn't hear any arguments. It is also worth noting that the proposed change relates to a new construction, which in turn may mean centralizing all the processes of the Big Building Presidential Program and the functioning of the containment system and the opponents to speak no matter. The Voice faction won't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u227	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues! Kostin, Makarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u228	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, I would like to point out that there were indeed good points made by previous speakers. Yet I want to draw your attention to completely misunderstood, in my opinion, things. Because a name is declared, for example, for determining the pricing system for road construction and so on. I didn't see any methodological aspects that would be proposed, not in the explanatory note, not in the body of the bill, not in the comparative note about what we're actually doing with these changes and changes. We haven't seen any new formula here that's going to be proposed, it doesn't explain what the effectiveness of the proposed model is and so on. This time. The other one. It has already been said that road traffic is excluded from the two laws of Ukraine on prices and pricing, as well as on investment activities. Yet, in our view, and here, what is important is that there is information about unfair competition in the road construction market, participation in Turkish companies and related schemes. We are ready to support the initiative of one of the deputies of the People's Servants to create a temporary investigation commission to investigate corruption in the construction of road roads and in the theft of road funds. This would be the right moment, not to try to shift from one department to another feature of pricing and calculation of the construction of one road. So our party will not support such initiatives, but once again, we will support the initiative of a colleague of the "People's Servant" to create a TSC for the cost-sharing of road construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the definition of pricing in the construction of public roads (Registration No. 2234). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:16:05]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next three questions are 3545-1, 3411, 3460. These are different bills, but they actually refer to each other as alternatives. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then the offer will be taken off. Or there are two options, dear colleagues. Either we follow it as an alternative (every author comes forward, we listen to the committee's position and we discuss), or, I think, some of the bills will be proposed to be withdrawn today because the Committee's decision on rejection. Then I'll put my proposal to the vote to consider them alternative, and then, if she doesn't get the support, we'll go back to your proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are we going with separate questions? Okay. All right, we got a deal. Then the first bill is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (to improve the order of activities of the arbitral courts and to increase the liability of the arbitral judges with a view to restoring confidence in the arbitral review) (registration No. 3045-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:18:06]] For 237 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u230	Honorary Presidium, honourable colleagues, Parliament's consideration of the issue of further developing an alternative dispute resolution system. Today, this mechanism of dispute resolution in Ukraine uses low demand. Some 500 arbitral courts are currently registered while only 39 courts have been involved in the 17-19 years of dispute. Parliament has before it a government bill 3411, which reproduces the bill 3045 that is being repealed today. To our conviction, it does not solve the complexly existing problem, nor can it restore confidence in the arbitral consideration or return the demand for it. Moreover, some of the legislative initiatives, such as extending the jurisdiction of the arbitral judges to disputes over land, are clearly premature and can have an open negative effect. Bill 3045-1 proposes to refrain from extending the jurisdiction of the arbitral courts to the listed categories of disputes. To our conviction, it is only possible to return to this question once the mechanisms proposed in the bill for reforming the arbitral review have proved effective. It is proposed that the arbitral tribunals be excluded from the coverage of disputes arising from the participation of economic operators; disputes over the execution of procurement contracts to ensure that defence needs are assured; disputes relating to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court on intellectual property matters. These categories of disputes are too sensitive for both the state and the public. We recommend supporting Bill 3045-1,
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u231	The chairman of the committee’s committee on legal policy, Baby Roman Veacheslavovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, the committee considered the bill, as it did in the group with two others, which Dmitry Aleksandrovich spoke about, because they were essentially alternatives to each other, and this bill by the national deputy Kulinić and others was submitted primarily as an alternative to the Cabinet. And at its meeting, the committee proposes to reject this bill. With this particular provision of the bill, the committee will recommend that the 116 articles be taken into account when considering the Cabinet Bill on the same subject as 3411, which we will consider next. Therefore, the committee's recommendation regarding this bill is to reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u233	Please sign up: two for, two for the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u234	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u235	Please pass the word to Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u236	Prince Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u237	Thank you. The issue of settlement of a type of non-judicial jurisdiction, such as arbitral courts, is extremely urgent and necessary for a solution. But I can't agree with the author, including the part that we have a legal vacuum. We don't have a legal vacuum. As early as 2004, we had adopted a law that made a lot of changes, and those changes were working. Another thing that can be said about their effectiveness or not their effectiveness. But the problem is different. The problem is, indeed, that the arbitral courts can only work to the fullest extent if they are entrusted with those economic entities that are thus agreed upon to settle disputes among themselves. But now, regardless of the fact that the number of courts is increasing, the number of people who want to solve the issue in this way is decreasing. And it's also a truth that needs to be taken for granted, and still think about how to work with it, how to solve it. I want to say on behalf of the faction that it is not possible to reject all three laws right now, because in this case, the Council will wash its hands and thus move away from the solution. I think it would be fair if one of the 3411 Bills, the one that worked with the previous governments and was being introduced all the time by new governments with another simple number, could still be taken as a basis. But only in that case (I think we'll talk about it when we get to it) when it's ruled out of all the discussion standards, including in the part of the earth and the real estate. And this bill that we're looking at right now, and the one that we're going to figure out is one more as actually an alternative, we're definitely going to have to reject. But this does not mean that we should reject the healthful things they have. And I think it would be right if we went at the same time, making a decision about the deviation, to the author and to the author of the next, an alternative with an alternative to the second reading to make to the profiling committee. And already in the profile committee, we need to work perfectly on this bill in such a way that all the issues that are rational in the other two bills will definitely find their reflection on the basis of 116.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u238	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u239	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, please pass the word to Lubinci Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u240	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, the honourable presidency, the parliamentary group "For the Future" generally supports what needs to be changed in the legislation on arbitral judges. We will support the committee's decision to reject the alternative bill 3045-1, which is actually an alternative to government law. Although the previous speaker was correct in saying that 3411 does not solve all the issues and problems. In fact, all the bills that we're considering today are weak enough, and all of them need to be sent for work or even rejected. However, it is likely that the authors of this legislative initiative are asked to work with the people who work in this field so that they do not simply write down standards and then do not abuse these standards, but actually change those changes that have brought confidence to the very institute of the arbitral judge. Because it was quite right and clearly said that this is an arbitral judge -- it's a non-judicial way of resolving any dispute, but it's very important and probably the only condition of the arbitral judge -- is trust on one side of the dispute, and on the other side. If there is such confidence, then there will be an arbitral judge as an institution in Ukraine. Therefore, it may be necessary to make legislative changes in the first place so as not to allow the arbitral judge himself to take sides there, one or the other. That's why the parliamentary group "For the Future" is going to vote against these legislative initiatives today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u242	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, our faction will not support this bill. First of all, I want to say that the notion of "third courts," here was the expression that it's a non-convictional dispute. This is, in fact, a situational issue on a contractual relationship. But this does not allow us to act contrary to the law, especially when it comes to public interests. You will see what appears here in the utilities of the landowners. By the way, I want to tell you that we have a host entity with the Cabinet of Ministers, who is the sole owner of the assets and shares of Ukrnaftegazu, to understand as well. And so our faction is that this position, which is proposed in Law 3045-1, does not support, does not withstand criticism, because there is a contradiction to the understanding of the arbitral courts in general. And that's why, in this case, what we're talking about is that it's a set of bills that have been proposed here that lead to far-sighted goals. Involve in the arbitral tribunals of non-state, non-state institutions or organizations in the resolution of specific civil disputes in the legal field where justice is to be carried out. Here's the question. As a result, we do not support this bill and ask that it be rejected by expressing our will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u244	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich. After that, the Fatherland, the Voice, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u245	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. In fact, colleagues and all Ukrainians, in fact, lack of justice in the courts and lack of an alternative dispute resolution mechanism, are all our common pains, it must be resolved. And in civilized countries, there really is an institution of arbitral tribunals, which is the primary element of the resolution of all disputes of the pretrial institution, but not exactly in the way that the colleagues in bill 3045-1 are proposing. What they're offering. They propose to create the Third Chamber of Ukraine. Not the state, but the private organization is self-sufficient to decide which judges are right, but which are wrong, which arbitral courts meet the law and which do not comply with the law. I mean, I think that. I'll be very tolerant here. There are now all the signs that the legislative initiative will only make things worse in the context of arbitral justice and will lead to monopolization by one and that self-governing organization of all third parties in Ukraine. So now we have to reject all the bills, invite entrepreneurs, invite professional associations, experts, lawyers, and work together on a bill that will really solve the problem that is. Those entrepreneurs who are currently standing on Maidan should also be asked. Because they stand there, they freeze, and they are not involved in discussing matters that concern them. This is primarily the issue of dispersal of courts and household disputes between business subjects. So we flip, we sit at the round table. And we're working on what's really gonna unload the courts and solve the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u246	Thank you. Alona Ivanovna Skrum with a motive. After that, Makarov. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u247	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Good afternoon, colleagues! In general, I want to say a few things about the next three bills, this one and the next two that violate the issues of the arbitral tribunals. Indeed, we in Ukraine have tremendous mistrust in the judicial system and in all the mechanisms for settling disputes. In fact, we have re-loaded courts and we need to try, first, to reform the judicial system, to restore trust to the minimum to the courts of different institutions. Unfortunately, we don't see these initiatives from the President or the Kabmin or the Servants of the People. And the second is to work on alternative means of resolving disputes, such as mediation, which is already in this Parliament and should be adopted, I hope. And with the arbitral courts, you have to be very careful not to harm or do worse. I note what the Notary Chamber of Ukraine has said today about the unprecedented risks of these next three bills. And that's why all three of the Fatherland Bills will be held up. Let us work on real things that will help Ukrainian entrepreneurs and citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u248	Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich. Then we vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, the possibility of considering an economic dispute, personal in the arbitral tribunal, is a sign of a civilized state. Regrettably, there is legislation in place in Ukraine regarding the activities of the arbitral tribunals, which was dated 2004. Therefore, Bill 3411 must now be adopted as a basis. I want to draw the attention of the Chief of the Supreme Council and the Apparatus that we are now in a situation where we are looking at three bills that regulate the same relationship. We cannot allow alternative bills to actually be considered in a row, and we had to determine which of them was the best not in the procedure envisaged by the Rules, by supporting one of the bills, but alternatively by rejecting, but by discussing each bill. Please do not allow this to happen again. This slows down the consideration of draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u250	Oleg Anatoliyovich, I would like to remind you that this is exactly what we did, for example, the Referendum Act, when all the bills went, which were connected. And then there was the agreement of the hall. Let us, too, not take over the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, neither mine nor your personal ones. Thank you. Let's go to the vote for the bill. Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] I will certainly announce what we are voting for. The committee's decision is to work. And I put, as always, the foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u251	I can't make a decision, it's not like that, dear colleagues. If this were a pre-processing process, it would be a work in progress. The decision to reject. You're the legal committee, head of the committee, you have to know everything. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (registration No. 3045-1). Please identify and vote. [[14:34:43]] For-37 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. Should I bet for work? I don't think so. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the formation and functioning of the arbitral courts with a view to restoring confidence in the arbitral review (registration number 3411). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:35:27]] For 226 Decision taken. Deputy Justice Minister Banchuk Alexander Anatoliyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u252	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs! I'm not going to tell you, obviously, after considering the previous issue of the importance of this bill, I'm just going to focus on the specifics of the bill that was passed by the government and developed in the Ministry of Justice. It is very important that, given the relevance of this issue, it is also that the first issue you have considered today is the 2021 Supreme Council Bill, which provides for paragraph 354 of this bill to amend the Third Review Act with the aim of improving the functioning of the arbitral judiciary. The Law of the Ministry of Justice provides for the actual cleansing of the system of arbitral review. And we anticipate that we raise the demands of the arbitral tribunals and we predict that the founders of the arbitral tribunals can be only non-profit organizations included in the relevant register of non-profit institutions and organizations, and from the moment they receive the status of non-profit to the time when they are able to create the arbitral tribunal should take at least five years. It is also important that we only provide for the right to register arbitral courts only with the Ministry of Justice. And we predict that those arbitral tribunals that were said to have some 494 arbitral tribunals, which would not meet the formal requirements laid down in the bill, if approved, would cease to exist in these arbitral tribunals. In addition, a very important element is to increase the transparency of the arbitral courts. We foresee the publication of lists of judges of the arbitral tribunal, contacts, names of judges, and statutes of the arbitral tribunal. So we think that since the adoption of this law six months later, when the relevant arbitral tribunals are held, we will clean up the system of arbitral tribunals, and these courts will be a real alternative to state courts. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u253	The chairman of the committee’s committee on legal policy, Baby Roman Veacheslavovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, regarding the Cabinet Bill 3411. The arbitral courts are really an important component of the system of dispute resolution and the restoration of violated rights. The special significance of the arbitral tribunals comes from the features of today’s functioning of the judicial system. It's overloaded with cases, we all know that, and that's the reason for the excessive length of the trial, and that's the reason for the low quality of the case because of the lack of time to take a deep look at the dispute. The arbitral courts are to unload the judicial system. They should become an alternative to dispute resolution in precisely such instruments as should be fast, convenient and effective, interested participants in disputes, and above all, business and investors. So now we really need to give a new start to the arbitral courts, take steps to increase their authority and restore confidence in them. The situation that we now have in this area is not satisfactory enough, and everyone admits it. This does not encourage the confidence of potential participants in the arbitral discussions in the application of the arbitral method of dispute resolution. This bill is recommended by the committee in the first reading. The committee also recommends the adoption of part one of the first 116 articles of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, taking into account certain novelties and positions and proposals from alternative bills. I would also like to point out that the most controversial was the rule that arbitral courts deal with real estate cases. Taking this into account, the Committee’s decision on anticorruption policy suggests that the first reading of the Committee should remove the relevant rules for the consideration by the arbitral tribunals of disputes over immovable property. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt Bill No. 3411 as a basis and invites the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce at a plenary meeting during the consideration of the bill, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules, that proposals and amendments should be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, against, speaking from MP factions and groups. Urban Anatoly Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u256	Please pass the word to Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u257	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u258	Dear colleagues, I am very grateful that they gave me the word. My dear colleagues, regarding Bill 3411, what I'm going to say is that this creation of this is what we'll call the Third Chamber of Ukraine, and it's where we're going to pass on the disputes that the earth and the real estate are the object or object of. Let's see what's behind it somehow, and why the Ministry is taking such an initiative on today's justice day. What is their rightfulness in these relationships that they meant? First. Second, let's see what decisions they make. Is this a self-governing organization? Self - control organization. So what's the matter with the Justice Department? That's the first one. And the second or, more faithfully, the third. Dear colleagues, let's see that every decision is enforceable. When we talk about arbitral tribunals, I want to go back to Stockholm arbitration, where on parity terms they voluntarily go to decision-making, any party that loses starting this arbitration process. It is this Court of Arbitration that must provide for this decision to be made and implemented on a parity basis. And so I would like to say that, impossible, this torpedo attack through the arbitral tribunals to enter the legal field of property - related relations regulators, especially the land, is a very thin heading. This is precisely where there are grounds for corruption, illicit wealth and control of these judicial institutions, if they can be called. We'll vote against that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u259	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u260	Please pass the word to Knyazevitch Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u261	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u262	Thank you. In my previous speech, I've explained in principle why we're going to support this bill. Of course, the issue of earth’s real estate is questionable, and what the committee recommends in the first reading is right to delete. Although, I don't know how this is going to happen in terms of the Rules, so that we don't have to do it the way we did after the adoption of the Intelligence Act, remember, we made changes to the codes, and where the committee proposed a new edition, it's like we voted for it, and then it turns out that we didn't vote, there's still a valid editorial, and we have to fix it with committee rights. And here, obviously, in view of these circumstances, it will be necessary to bring about a committee law that we can adopt together. For if it is not accepted, then in the second reading, our faction will definitely not vote for such things. As for the first reading, there are a number of things that are really very constructive. This is also the possibility of establishing a single registrar in the Ministry of Justice, at last, it's also about non-profit organizations that get the right to establish arbitral courts, it's about increasing the powers of the Third Chamber in part, including the termination of the courts and so on. Here I have to say that it's not news and it's not the wish of the current government, it's the wish of many governments, a series of similar bills instead of the previous parliamentary calls, they've been adopted, I think, since 2008. And I think it's about time for these changes to take place. Moreover, I would be inclined to do so if these changes were not effective, but to try to look at the complexity of the new edition of the Third Review Act in general, because obviously 2004 and 2021 say that 17 years of differences between them have led to a moral aberration of this law, which requires not such cosmetic but more fundamental changes. However, in the first reading we support the bill, in the second reading it will depend on how the committee takes into account the things we talked about above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u263	Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, I didn't want to go along with black notaries, which could at least be controlled and dislicted, with black registrars, who could also be disbarred from licenses, to have black arbitral tribunals. When the owner of the property does not even know what is behind it, and the schematics can be drawn by dozens, they will be decided by the consent of the parties where the owner is not even a party, his property rights. All of these are the consequences of a terrible thing, when the "Fatherland" faction, which, at the time of the trial reform, proposed to follow the world experience so that minor property disputes would be decided by judges, as is the case in the vast majority of countries that are elected by citizens of the local community, and who have any status, not so-called public organizations, who will do what on behalf of the Third Chamber their affairs? But if 60 percent of the cases were resolved during a five-minute or ten-minute trial, see how this happens in the absolute number of countries in the world that have been through this a long time ago, we would have long forgotten what we have to do for years to consider when a minor dispute comes to the Supreme Court. And that's why our faction won't vote. I ask you not to violate the Rules when you say out of your voice that you see the exclusion of property rights, including land relations. There is no right of the Supreme Council to even propose such things to the committee, so we need to go back to judicial reform and divide the key issues that are small, small.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u265	Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u266	Please pass the word to Baba.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u267	Baby Roman Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u268	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I offer 3711. I urge you to vote again. The committee decided to exclude from it the rules that apply to the arbitral tribunals’ dispute over real estate — land or other immovable property. And that's what the decision of the anti-corruption committee noted. This decision has been taken by the committee and suggests that the bill be adopted in the first reading without appropriate provisions. According to the second reading, some novels from alternative drafts will be included. And, colleagues, please join me, make suggestions, they'll be processed by the committee. And I hope that we will resolve and resolve the problem with the arbitral courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u269	Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich. Then the Aresonkov, and then we move on to. No, he was speaking German. No, Germany, I'm sorry. No, no, I have a good memory. Gregory Mikolayovich, you know. Please, Oleg Anatolyovich. Please turn on the microphone, Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u270	To date, the level of support for the arbitral resolution of disputes in Ukraine remains extremely low. This is confirmed by the discussion that was held today in the hall. At the same time, I want to say that the level of trust in the judicial system by the same speakers is also very low. What I'm saying is that we need to focus our work on maintaining confidence in both the arbitral courts and the courts of general jurisdiction, the courts of commerce, and allow the parties to the dispute to decide for themselves whether they want to decide whether they want to settle their dispute before a public court or to refer the dispute to a arbitral tribunal. Then they will be able to choose their own judge, present their own position, and make their own decision voluntarily if they agree to do so. At the same time, some mechanisms for possible enforcement of the arbitral tribunal’s decision should be added to the second reading if the parties agreed to do so before the dispute was considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u271	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u272	Dear colleagues, all who have criticized Bill 3045 for proposing that it strengthen the role of the Third Chamber as a self-governing body, I would like to remind you once again what you are now proposing to do. In 2009, Parliament adopted amendments to the Third Courts Act, which had limited jurisdiction of the courts and established that it was prohibited to consider disputes concerning consumer rights, corporate disputes, land rights disputes and immovable property, especially land issues, which were very sensitive to society. Today, you propose to extend the authority and jurisdiction of these courts. So I feel like I need to be very balanced. And we insist on our choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u273	I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Committee's proposals and with the Committee's proposal to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving the order of formation and the activities of third-party courts with a view to restoring confidence in the third review (registration number 3411). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:52:08]] For 227 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the day is the draft Act amending the Act "On arbitral tribunals" to bring the rules of the Law to the requirements of international rules of arbitration and effective legislation, to increase transparency in the activities of arbitral tribunals, to extend their use by legal and natural persons (registration number 3460). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:52:57]] For 231 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u274	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Bill 3,460 proposes to improve the system of pretrial dispute settlement and to bring the rules of effective legislation into international standards of arbitration, namely: First. Return to both creditors and consumers the constitutional right of choice for their defence by the arbitral tribunal. The other one. To increase transparency in the activities of the arbitral courts by posting information about the arbitral tribunal on official websites. Third. To bring existing legislation into line with the rules of international arbitration, providing for a dispute to be considered at a place agreed upon by the parties to the dispute. The principle difference between Law 3460 of 3411 and Law 3045-1 is that certain bills extend the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal with the simultaneous increase in the requirements of the founding members of the arbitral tribunal and the granting to the arbitral authorities of the arbitral self-government, namely the Assembly and the Third Chamber of Greater Powers, but it is not confirmed that the strengthening of control over the founders of the arbitral tribunal will increase the percentage of confidence in it and in the non-State review of disputes. Our position is that disputes in the arbitral court are considered by the judges of the arbitral tribunal, not the founders. A special feature of the arbitral dispute is that the arbitral court and the arbitral judges choose the parties to the dispute, not its founders, the parties choosing the court and the judges is the best control body that determines the quality and work of the arbitral court and the judges. The bill is an easier form than those bills that were voted in the Hall, or lay version of the arbitral judges. And it's just moments like this. Regardless of Parliament's decision in this bill, I reiterate the importance of improving the arbitral tribunal's institution and bringing it to international standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u275	Thank you. The chairman of the committee’s committee on legal policy, Baby Roman Veacheslavovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u276	Dear colleagues, Bill 3460, once again, it is essentially an alternative to Cabinet Bill 3411, which we voted for, thank you, and supported in the first reading. Therefore, the committee considers that it is necessary to reject the decision, that the decision has been voted on at the committee meeting, and that the relevant provisions contained in the bill, in another bill, which is also essentially an alternative, will allow the authors and authors to submit law 3411 to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-02-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, we have a proposal, we have three minutes left before the end of the plenary session, there is a proposal to now vote this bill without discussion, the committee's decision to reject it. Is there no objection? None. It's a consolidation of effort. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on arbitral tribunals on the introduction of rules of law to the requirements of international rules of arbitration and effective legislation, increasing transparency in the activities of arbitral tribunals, extending their use by legal and natural persons (registration number 3460). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[2:57:09]] For-26 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. Thank you, Your Honor. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
