ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. If anyone forgets, I remind you that the registration takes place by pressing the green button, the first button on the left, with a sensory button. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Please register. [[10:01:55]] There are 217 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, a moment of attention. Today, we celebrate and honor the memory of all Crimean Tatars who were deported from the Crimean Peninsula. I propose to honor the moment of silence of all those who died during these tragic events for the Ukrainian State and for Ukrainian history. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have up to 30 minutes to speak on Tuesday on behalf of MP factions and groups with proposals, announcements and messages. But before that, I'd like to welcome Natalia Yuriovna Krávska, her birthday today. I wish you good luck. Happy birthday. Once again with the holiday! [[Applause]] Please sign up from the MP factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u2	The word is given to the national deputy of Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, today is the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of the Deportation of the Crimean People’s Genocide. If there is a desire to support, please go to the rostrum. 77 years ago, the Soviet Union deported 200,000 Crimean Tatars from Crimea. We know what it's like to lose everything and spend almost 50 years fighting to get home to Crimea. Today we are forced to fight the invader again on our land, but this time we are not the Crimean Tatars in this fight alone. Today, with me at the rostrum, my colleagues, with whom we work daily to have the invader leave our lands. Ukraine has created the Crimean Platform and is working to protect the rights of Crimean Tatars. We've developed a package of Crimea Platform Bills that are necessary for the depopulation and reintegration of Crimea. Today, we are, more than ever, the only ones in our common fight for Crimea and the truth behind us. I would like to invite to the floor the leader of the Crimean Tatar people of the People's Deputy Mustafa Djemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u4	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! 77 years ago on this day, on May 18, 1944, the deportation of the Crimea’s indigenous people from their historic homeland, the Crimea Peninsula, began. Not only was the entire civilian population deported, but more than 10,000 Crimean Tatars were also deported by soldiers and officers removed from the front, disarmed and sent to the so-called labour army camps, where most of them also died, they were simply killed. In the years to come, the empty peninsula began to move intensively from the Russian Federation. The crime of the Soviet regime, which caused the death of more than 46 percent of Crimean Tatars, was justly qualified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of 12 November 2015 as the crime of the Crimscotarian genocide. To justify this crime and to justify deportation in those years, another 13 ethnicists and peoples of the Crimea, the North Caucasus, and the Germans were mythical about their disloyalty to the Soviet regime. The main goal, as was revealed later in the postwar Crimes press, was the desire of the Soviet company to make Crimea for strategic and military purposes purely Russian. This tragic date to this day may have lost some of its focus, for it has been more than three quarters of a century, but the events of the last seven years.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u5	Please give me three minutes at the expense of the Sofia Sofia Romanovna to finish. Three minutes on the next performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u6	Thank you. But the events of the last seven years show that the Russian rulers have not changed their attitude toward the people who do not want to accept their dictatorship, their desire to transform both their people and the nations of the occupied territories into humble holocausts. For more than half a century, the Crimean Tatar people have waged a nonviolent fight against the Soviet regime for the right to return to their homeland and reconstruction, which was eliminated after deportation, of autonomy. The mass national movement of Crimean Tatars has become a powerful wing of the universally democratic dissident movement in the USSR against totalitarianism and democratization of Ukraine. Hundreds of people went through Soviet prisons, camps, and special forces. The return to its homeland became possible only in recent years of Soviet reconstruction, especially after the collapse of the Soviet Union and the declaration of Ukraine's independence. Once again, the Russian occupation, the repression, forced the natives to leave their homeland, again the mass settlement of the peninsula by the settlers of modern Russia, and again the terrorist regime, which is much like the Soviet regime in the harshest periods. I am absolutely confident that sooner or later the invader will be expelled from our territory, and the hands stretched out on the sovereignty and integrity of Ukraine will be broken. But as soon as that happens, it depends on many factors and primarily on the determination of Ukraine itself, and its supreme legislative body, the Supreme Council. I very much hope that all the bills aimed at deposing territories and defining their post-deposit status, strengthening Ukraine's security and restoring the legitimate rights of the Crimea peoples, which will soon be brought before us, will be supported by our Parliament. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u7	Thank you. The word is given to national deputy Taruti Sergey Alexiyovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u8	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. First of all, on behalf of the "Fatherland" party, I want to express solidarity with the Crimean Tatar people on this day and say that the temporarily occupied Crimea is completely temporarily occupied. Crime will be returned to Ukraine and none of the Ukrainians can live peacefully until we see Crimea and Donbas in Ukraine. But at the same time today, I want to talk about other things that have to do with the fact that there is already a threat in Ukraine that Ukrainians will not feel at home. I want to talk about how all the social, economic decisions that have been made in recent years are being pushed out of the country. We don't know that hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians are leaving Ukraine, not because they don't love their Fatherland, but because they have created incredibly impossible living conditions, there is no working conditions, and everything that is done is done to minimize Ukrainians on their own land. And now a whole series of agricultural land sales laws are being passed. My dears, if you look at the legislation of other countries, in traditions and order, you will see that in no country of the world, I emphasize -- in no country of the world, there is no free market for the sale of agricultural land, everything is regulated so that only a farmer of his own can live and work on his agricultural land. What's happening in Ukraine right now, and what's starting off on July 1st is just madness with the sale of agricultural land, which is 72 percent of Ukraine's territory, we're also on the verge of essentially losing our land. And I can say that on May 22, at 12:00 in 30 kilometers from Kiev together, almost all agrarian associations, trade unions, and industry and entrepreneurs are going to have a large initiative group. More than 17,000 people have been registered in an initiative group to launch a nationwide referendum against the sale of agricultural land. Moreover, sociological surveys show that 77 percent of people want such a referendum. We're human, we're Ukrainian, and we're Ukrainian, and we're Ukrainian. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u9	Bondar, please, MP Group for the Future. Victor Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u10	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This week is marked by a key issue: the change of some ministers in the government of Ukraine. And this is given as a great achievement that they're making a decision: they're changing someone. And nothing really happens, because changing ministers doesn't essentially change any situation in the country or change the situation in the government, and it doesn't give us an answer, but what the government actually plans to do. So far, we have seen that the government itself in the last year of work has practically failed everything that is possible. We've seen antisocial politics, and it's expressed in that there's a tremendous price increase, there's a tremendous increase in tariffs -- almost 30 percent in the last year alone; there's a crazy rise in gas tariffs, there's electricity -- almost twice in the last year. The population accumulates huge debts, and they now make up 80 billion dollars. 6.5 million pensioners have been deprived of 4 thousand dollars, deprived of pensions, denied subsidies, and this is also a pensioner genocide, because, in fact, when they receive 4,000 dollars of pension, they are forced to bear all of it for utilities. And this is the policy that the government is offering us today. And they're changing individual ministers, but they're not changing their policies as a whole, and the main thing is they're not giving us the answer to what kind of economic model they're building in the country. We don't see an industrial program. We don't see a program for the strong development of the financial sector. We don't see social programs that answer how to support the population today. We've heard a lot about half a million jobs being created, hundreds of thousands of jobs. Today, we see only a crazed reduction in new jobs, the outflow of young people abroad, and no program to support Ukrainian production. We don't see a social perspective in general for people as the government plans to help and develop this country. Instead, we see Zelenski's statement that he is proposing to build the state-of-the-art country that will be unique to another world and that thousands of investors will go there. At the same time, the government does not change anything and offers us a model when raw materials are exported abroad. We export forests, we import furniture, we export raw materials, we import ready-made products, and we overpay tens of times for goods that could be manufactured on our own industrial enterprises if there was an industrial program. So today, the change of ministers may change for a few days just the information field in the country, but it does not change anything about the activity of this authority. We need to hear from the government the real agenda for this year: how they will solve social problems, how tariff issues will be resolved, how will the issue of the restoration of Ukrainian industry, transport, infrastructure be resolved. And in fact, we want to hear from the government what they've done in the last year, and that's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u11	Silent Alexei Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u12	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, Ukrainians! Last Thursday, the President of Ukraine signed the Law banning the import of electricity from the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus is the right step towards Ukraine's energy independence. However, the energy we depend on, whether Russian or Belarusian, is not limited exclusively by electricity. The recent decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on the artificial limitation of the trade premiums on petrol and diesel on the ASA ceilings and the need for the government to regulate the market manually is all the consequences of a permanent closure of Ukraine's increasing import dependency over many years. The tasks defined by the President's Decree to reduce the dependence on energy imports have not been carried out by the government. Let me show you some numbers. Today, 80 percent of diesel and cremated gas and 50 percent of gasoline consumed in Ukraine are imported. So we depend very much on imports of petroleum products. Import structure. Half of diesel fuel and creak gas is the Russian Federation, which is the country we're fighting. Once again, half of all diesel and compressed gas are produced in the aggressor country. We spend between 3 billion and 5 billion dollars per year on imports of petroleum products, financing the economy of neighbouring countries. More than that, we finance Rosneft and Gazprom, Russian state companies whose profits are aimed at increasing the aggression of the Russian Federation, including on Ukrainian borders. Why is this happening? Domestic production is now placed under conditions where the excise duty rate for Russian clumped gas is four times lower than that for Ukrainian gasoline. In this way, the use of gasoline is inconvenient. Unbalanced excise policy, which has been contributing to the mass transition of Ukrainian consumers to Russian products for 10 years, has resulted in a double drop in gas consumption in Ukraine and a triple increase in compressed gas in Ukraine. And once again, this gas we import mainly from the Russian Federation, the aggressor country. If we want to make gasoline or diesel cheaper, reduce dependence on Russian imports, we need to create a level playing field and balance excise duties on fuel. Bill No. 4098, which deals with these issues, registered with the Supreme Council in September of last year, has not yet been considered by the profiling committee. So let's not wait for another crisis and work together so that Ukrainians can get quality and cheaper fuel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u13	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! One of the main problems that concerns our pensioners today is the cancellation of the free provision of pensions and social assistance on September 1, 2021. According to Cabinet of Ministers Order 277 (since 29 March of this year), this service remains free only for a limited circle of pensioners: these are disabled and groups, persons in need of foreign care, and pensioners over 80 years of age. The Trust Group and I had this problem in April because we got a huge number of calls from our voters. It is a good thing that the Prime Minister has responded publicly and stated that "Staff" will continue to deliver pensions to settlements where there are no bank offices. But a public statement is good, but the Pension Fund in its work is solely governed by official documents. And today, this is the Cabinet of Ministers Order 277, which clearly states that "The Crucifixion" will provide retirement services exclusively until September 1, 2021. As of September 1, payments to all pensioners, except for certain categories, will be made either through current card accounts or through a postal operator, and these services will be paid. I repeat, services will be paid. Another problem. According to this decree, the bank is an intermediary between the Pension Fund and the pensioner. And the decree clearly states that the involvement of postal operators in the delivery of pensions in the absence of a bank separation is a right of the bank, not a duty. Once again, this is the right of the bank, not the duty. We've studied the situation about the network of banking offices. In the current year, 811 wards have been closed. And the biggest branch was just closed down by state banks. In our statements, the bank’s managers respond that the separation was closed only from an economic point of view. In fact, banking and ATMs are now only 4 percent of the population. So I have a logical question for the Ministry of Social Policy that prepared this decision. So what were you driving when you were preparing it? There are almost no roads in the rural area, and there is also almost no transport link to the nearest bank offices. It's completely incomprehensible how a pensioner gets to a specific department. In addition, the free supply of pensions is cancelled. So our group is officially calling on the Cabinet of Ministers to review this Order No. 277 in order to appease our pensioners. Because in this situation they still find it very difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u15	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Then we're going to look at the licenses.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! The whole of Ukraine has witnessed the so - called show about bringing our friend and leader Victor Medvedchuk to justice. Initially, after illegally closing the mouth of journalists, the authorities began persecuting the opposition and its leaders. Is there any involvement in the parliamentary mandate of the opposition to indulgence of responsibility for the commission of an offence? Of course not, before the law all equal. But the evidence, especially when it comes to opposition representatives, must be undeniable. And when we demanded the responsibility of the previous President, we always said that the evidence should be such that even Marina Poroshenko believed in his crimes. What did we see? That even the "hand" judge of the Pecher Court, who was forced to bring out prosecutors, still refused to allow them to arrest our comrade. You think you're scaring us? Do you think you'll split us up? Look, here's our team, we're demonstrating strength and unity more than ever. Do you think we're going through this for the first time? Where's our Ukraine? Where's the People's Front? Where's B.P.P.? They died like dew in the sun! And we stand here and there are people with us who have been trusting us for 17 years and representing them in opposition. Zelenski – Medvedchuk. The government has already found its own ass, as they say at Zakarpatta. And according to the Order of the Cave Court, 1-0 is in our favor. What do you think your main enemy and enemy of President Zelensky is today? No, it's not. It's Zelensky himself, the time and what you do with Ukrainians and tariffs, pensions, and what we're now at the top of death in the world. So, your honorary colleagues, of course, we understand that you need to deal with your ministers, and we don't want to be intimidated or broken on your show. The people of Ukraine and the truth behind us!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, while there are small announcements. Pursuant to article 16 p.m. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "For Family Values and Healthy Lifestyles". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitruk Artem Henadijovich, was elected head of this association. Another announcement. Relevant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the Interfractional Inter-Parliamentary Union "Free Decisions and Results". The heads of this association elected Ukrainian national deputies Yasko Elizavet Alexiyevna, Kabachenka Vladimir Viktorovich, Klimenko Julius Leonidivna. And another announcement. Pursuant to article 60, prime. Another inter-fractional MP union, the Movement Against the Aggression of the RF, has been created. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Berezin Maksim Yuriovich, was elected head of this association. Hello, colleague!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u18	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Edit 410, Petty Officer. Don't insist. Labunski. Vlasenko, 412 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u19	Thank you, Mr. Head. First of all, it's very interesting to consider a bill to participate in electronic commerce in a country where only 50 percent of the territories are covered by the Internet. And to say that every Ukrainian citizen, every Ukrainian farmer can have the opportunity to participate in electronic commerce is totally unacceptable. But my application is included in an article that regulates the list of documents for participation in land trade. See what the drafters are offering us. They suggest that foreign and stateless persons should be presented with such documents, and other documents should be submitted to foreign legal persons. So when you are told that this law does not regulate the participation of foreigners in the acquisition of Ukrainian agricultural land, it is an outright lie, an absolute lie. The position of Fatherland is that the land should be rented by Ukrainian farmers and no one else. Thank you. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u20	I'll bet you 412 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:29:37]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 417 correct, Yvchenko. Don't insist. Kabachenko, 418. Don't insist. Kirilenko, 419. Don't insist. Jacik, 428. Don't insist. Tymoshenko, 431st. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u21	Julia Timoshenko. I, Mr. Head, would like to draw your attention so that you don't miss out on our deputies. Passed 415, 416 Dubela.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u22	I just called a colleague. If you missed it, your colleagues missed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u23	417, Yvchenka. Kirilenka missed, Kabachenka. I'm asking you to start with the one you missed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u24	Julia Volodymyrna, pick up the transcript. I just called them. Thank you. Please, your 431s.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u25	415 revisions, Dubil asks for a word. And what I'm saying is that right now, even if we're not allowed to speak, it tells us how far they're stretching the Land Sales Act right now. And I want to pay attention to all the people who can hear us right now. In this Supreme Council, there's a shabbash going on right now. 72% of Ukraine's territory is agricultural land, sold without any rules, and taking account of Ukraine's national interests. Do not uphold this law!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u26	I'll bet you 431 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. While colleagues are voting, I remind you that the 415th has even been voted last time. Yes. [[10:31:37]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Next line, Timoshenko 432.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u27	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to make it clear that the Fatherland Party, the Fatherland faction, is definitely against the sale of agricultural land. We have to do everything we can to make sure that this adventure with the President of Ukraine doesn't go away. For this, on May 22nd, at 12 o'clock under Kiev, together with the agrarians, our team will be holding an initiative group to hold an all-U.S. referendum against the sale of agricultural land. I'm asking everyone to join us. The information is on our website, the information is in every party organization. Our goal, our team, along with society, with the people of Ukraine, is to hold an all-U.S. referendum and not sell Ukrainian land to these fraudsters and lobbyists who have already put their eyes on our land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u28	There is a vote of 432 amendments to National Deputy Timoshenko. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[10:33:08]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 434. Taruta. None. The next amendment is 438. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u29	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, there's a problem with this law when we talk to you about the participation of farmers, singles. 4 million people who produce products, do you think they'll be able to participate in an electronic office, in their electronic office, with their own signature in an electronic office? Do we have Internet in the villages? Will they be trained and know how these auctions will take place? Colleagues, there's a big problem, because it's the ignorance of a small producer, and especially of what we call singles and family farms, they're just going to be deprived of the possibility of participating in such trades and auctions. So I think we're too early for the village, so we haven't done the Internet yet, we're going to come up with this digitization. Think about what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u30	I'm betting on a vote of 438 amendments. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[10:34:45.]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 440. Scram. None. 441. Scram. None. 443rd. Taruta. None. 445. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u31	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Dear Ukrainian citizens, why is it that Fatherland continues to fight against foreigners getting Ukrainian land, and for money? But because you are, and because you're here in Ukraine on May 22nd, and now in Ukraine, at 12 o'clock, you're holding all-U.S. congregations, finally, about the U.S. referendum. Why the All-U.S. referendum? In order for the Ukrainians to decide the fate of their land and, above all, to decide and instruct the authorities to stop the sale of land, to stop the culinary work in the Supreme Council and finally to hear what people demand. And they demand order on the ground, demand that taxes come to united territorial communities, and that you finance schools and hospitals, and that they are not allowed to be closed to the authorities. Please take into account. I'll bet on the vote 445 amendment, People's Deputies. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[10:36:31]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 446, Bondarev. It doesn't, does it? Next amendment, Vlasenko, 447.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What's going on in this session room? Initially, the Land Market Opening Law was passed, allowing foreign banks to acquire land without any restrictions. Then they passed the Law on Amendments to the Earth Code, which was taken down by all restrictions on the acquisition of Ukrainian land by foreigners. Now they're pushing a third law that says that everything that we've adopted before is going to be sold now not just like that, but it's going to be sold through electronic auctions. Once again, this is in a country where only 50 percent of the territory is covered by the Internet, and most of it is not covered by the Internet, and there are villages and villages that are small and that work directly on agricultural land. There are a number of strategic issues in this law, there are a number of technical amendments, but I ask, on the one hand, to come to the entire Ukrainian assembly on May 22 and on the other, to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u33	I'm betting on the vote 447 amendment of the People's Deputy Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:38:11]] For-74. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 448. Yvchenka, please. You don't insist, do you?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u34	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, you and I want to accept electronic auctions so that people can get land on rent. But once again, we're telling you that the web of rural areas is quite weak. The knowledge of farmers, especially small, small, and family, was also limited in the conduct of courtship auctions. We've been teaching on the committee, so believe me, not even every deputy, I think he understands what a yard auction is about selling leases. And please tell me why we're selling emphytevsis here, if emphytevsis is actually buying land. I understand there's rent, and why does this emphyteusise, if it's better to just rent or, excuse me, two acres and then sell. So there are many questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u35	I'm betting on a vote of 448 amendments to the People's Deputy Ivchenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:39:41]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next 449. Yvchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u36	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, just so that Ukrainian citizens understand what's going on with what's called land reform, we're gathering people on May 22 on Saturday, and we're helping everyone who wants to be in the initiative groups to initiate these people's own meetings with 3 million signatures. It's important to us that these are not fairy groups that have been commissioned by the authorities to take place in the Sinnelnik region in the village of Vasilkowka, but that these really are people who will be able to collect 3 million signatures from all over the country. You think it's better to gather 60 people from one village across Ukraine, but it's still people from all over the territory -- 10-12,000 people who will join the initiative groups. So let's spend some time and ask people if they want one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u37	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 449. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:41:12]] For-74. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 450. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u38	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. Dear Ukrainians, just a year ago, the first social survey was conducted, and 70 percent of you, the respected Ukrainians, opposed the opening of the land market. Two weeks ago, a new social survey was conducted, with 65 per cent of Ukrainians renegotiating against the sale of Ukrainian land. May 22 is the launch of the All - Ukrainian referendum, where people, ordinary people, ordinary Ukrainians will be. And please, I want to go to the "ministers of the people" right now: go out to these people and tell them that you don't support their will, and that you're ready, and you're going to implement your anti-national policy. May 22 – this is a performance indicator for you. I'm asking you to support this because it's this right that you're completely canceling article 47 on off-line trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u39	I'm betting on the 450th amendment of the Kabachenko People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:42:37]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 452. Bondarev, please. None. The 451st Puziyczuk was voted in the previous session, Julia Volodymyrna. I'm just asking, I've got it all marked out. Let's just go after what I have. There's no Bondarev. Okay. 453rd. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u40	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Article 137 is called "Preparation for the conduct and order of land trade." The bill, proposed by the committee, completely invalidates this article, and instead of conducting off-line trades, where we have a licensor, where we have certain individuals who have a clear role, you are implementing an exclusive electronic commerce procedure. We suggest that, given that the Internet is not yet developed in Ukraine, given that the active users of the Internet are only 21 percent of agricultural workers, we offer you to maintain a compromise of two standards: the first norm is to conduct offline trades that people who do not have access to the Internet can join and the conduct of electronic commerce for people who have access to the Internet. Edited please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u41	I'm betting on a vote of 453 amendments to the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:44:33]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 454, Yatzik. Will you insist? Don't insist. 455th, Vlasenko. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I pointed out, a completely unconstitutional law on opening up the land market was adopted at first, and then a completely unconstitutional law on amending the Earth Code was passed. Just to prevent these laws from being considered in the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine had a totally brutal, completely artificial, totally falsified attack with violations of the Constitution. What they don't do is to stretch these laws, instead of going in a completely simple, completely understandable way -- ask the owner of Ukrainian agricultural land, the Ukrainian people. Instead, initiatives are being faked by groups that are completely "breaking" by district government administrations that have a green street on the Green Central Electoral Commission, although we call for 22 numbers to come to the assembly of the initiating group after the referendum on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u43	There is a vote of 455 amendments to the People's Deputy Vlasenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:46:10]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 456. Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u44	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. In this amendment, I want to ask the head of the agar committee to Mikola Tarasovich. The question of technicality is kind of an arithmetic problem. You completely cancel the preparation process for the conduct and order of the land trade, that is, you completely delete the procedure. How will the land of municipal and state property be sold? The bill does not contain any reference to the licensor, without any reference to the procedure for the conduct of state or municipal property trade. Will another position be established? Will this person be familiar with the process and how to conduct electronic auctions? This law takes effect in a few months. How do you see the procedure of teaching people to conduct this procedure in electronic form right in the division of state and municipal property? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u45	The committee's position is brief, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u46	Well, actually, dear colleague, you're right, there's no auctioneer, because the system itself runs the bidding. This is the first moment. It's pretty simple, we have as much simplified as possible. It's easy to participate in auctions that are legal, that's natural. Check. We have to pay 30 percent of the NGO. We have a large guarantee contribution to participate in trades on the right to rent agricultural land. Before signing the lease contract, the documents and persons of the tenant are checked for active legislation. And then you sign up. If it does not respond, there is a refusal to sign the contract and a loss of a guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u47	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote 465 amendment of the national deputy Kabachenko. The committee suggests that you reject it, you've heard the argument. Please identify and vote. [[10:48:34]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 458. Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u48	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Dear Mikolo Tarasovich, next question to you. So let's say we can look at the introduction of electronic commerce. Let's suppose. But once again, today the Internet penetration rate across the country is 50 percent. Farmers who use the Internet make up 21 percent. Why don't you put in place a compromise form of trade, leaving off-line, normal trades that are now set out in Article 137 with a very clear order and with an active procedure that has already confirmed itself, and leaving with this possibility of electronic commerce? Then you and I will be able to provide equal access for all citizens and from an electronic point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u49	A brief committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u50	The position of the committee is as follows. In fact, my dear colleague, you're overestimating, let's say, the need for constant access to the Internet. On average, the farmer will not often participate in these auctions, that is, not every day. Because the land in the communities is going to be exposed, even the right to rent, not every day, because most of them are already in some form of lease, that is, when it ends. Lands of stock, for example, if they are not leased, inventoryd and prepared, is also not a common procedure. And, of course, once a year or every three years, getting ready and accessing the Internet for one hour is not a problem. Believe me, we do not underestimate farmers and their knowledge in modern ways of communication. The next moment. Why do we take the offline so-called deals and, if possible, maybe next time I'll let you know, because the time is running out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u51	I'll bet you 458 Kabachenko's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:51:20]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Edit 460, Timoshenko. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u52	Cymbaluk!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u53	Cymbaluk, 460.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u54	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable chairman, in fact, is that before the nationwide referendum on the sale of Ukrainian land, this bill should be removed from consideration at all. Because it is the Ukrainian people who can determine their constitutional right to sell land or not. First. The other one. Continued with the thesis that our colleagues expressed about the court's electronic commerce. Can a farmer participate on an equal footing? It's really a web-covering. And when this bill only provides for electronic media coverage of such trades, it is unequal access to participation in such land trades. And on May 22, this year, Fatherland supports the initiative of farmers and other social organizations to hold an initiative group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u55	I'll bet you 460 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:53:00]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 461, Kabachenko. Krulko, 462nd. I see. The pod doesn't insist. Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich does not insist. Petty Officer, 479 requisitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u56	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. I insist on this point, just as I insist, as Fatherland all insists that a nationwide referendum be held. In order for the Central Election Commission -- we are now addressing the CLTC -- to not prevent people from registering and holding on May 22 in the village of the Beresov district of Kyiv district, the national assembly for the preparation of the national referendum. Because the referendum is where people will say and I want to say that the land belongs to them, that the nadra underground also belongs to the people of Ukraine. And people want and can use this land to live a decent, prosperous life on their own land. To prevent foreigners from coming and agrobarons from deciding the fate of the people, the united local communities themselves lived in a secure, stable, and future state of the land. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u57	I'll bet you 479 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:54:55]] For-68 The decision is not taken. 500 fines, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u58	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I would like to emphasize once again that two unconstitutional laws have actually been adopted by the Supreme Council. One of them, since it was signed by the President, is already at the Constitutional Court. In order not to allow this bill to be considered on the opening of the land market and an attack was carried out, an absolutely brutal attack against the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to prevent the Constitutional Court from taking an honest, objective and informed decision to declare this law unconstitutional. Now we're being asked to remove the last restrictions on the participation of foreigners in the acquisition of Ukrainian agricultural land and also to take away Ukrainian farmers who have no access to the Internet, to deprive them of any share, in fact, in these auctions. They're losing money to big banks and foreign companies, and they're not going to be able to participate because they actually don't have constant real access to the Internet. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u59	I'll bet you 500 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:56:25]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 503. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Next. Next issue, Timoshenko. Now, a minute. 505 right, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u60	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Mikola Tarasovich, continuing our dialogue, and you have not been able to give a complete answer to my question. I would like to respond on my part, I don't underestimate the technical level of knowledge of farmers, but I see very well the current state of development of Internet technology in Ukraine. And so now it's not a question that farmers can't use the Internet, it's a question that they don't have access to the Internet. And even if we say they won't use the Internet every day, yes, that's true, you're right. But for documents to be uploaded to the site, you still need Internet access, you need Internet speed, you need technology. And so let's leave you with the very compromise standard: if the farmer doesn't have access to the Internet, let's leave him the right to have offline trading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u61	505 lashes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:58:11]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. Tymoshenko. 516, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u62	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, could you please say that it was not possible to make such a law and such a round that would actually be recognized as a particularly small and small agricultural business? Why was it not possible to adopt a European model that would really protect the local manufacturer? Tell me, why is there no safety nets or priorities in this law on local farmers today? This will enter one of his electronic cabinets somewhere in Kiev in the office will enter both the Kharkiv region and Zaporzik, and Lvivsk, and Zacarpatje. What's the point of a law like that when we bring a speculative into the agricultural sector, colleagues? It may have been possible to write safety nets for those who have priority rights, especially those who live in this territory, to pay taxes rather than speculatives who would subordinate the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u63	I'll bet you 516 votes, Yvchenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:59:48]] For-68 The decision is not taken. 517th, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u64	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Once again I want to remind everyone who listens to or watches the Supreme Council that now, despite the enormous problems in the country, all the problems put aside (both tariffs and wages and the fight against COVID) are now being considered how to take away the Ukrainians of agricultural land. And there's a bill that allows all of our countries to essentially "wrong" through electronic auctions, where no one will know who makes the rules, who manages these auction sites by electronic auctions, who owns them. There's nothing in this law. Everything's thrown into government, they're going to create conditions. This means that those who create conditions by electronic auctions will also have Ukrainian land. But be assured that they are not Ukrainian farmers, not Ukrainian agrarians, or Ukrainian people. Vote against the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u65	I'm betting on the 517th edition of Tymoshenko. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:01:16]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Vlasenko, 530 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u66	Thank you, Mr. Head. I think the first thing to do before all these laws were ever adopted was to ask the opinion of the owner of the Ukrainian land, the Ukrainian people, in the entire Ukrainian referendum, as promised on many occasions by the President and the ruling party "Serve of the People". Instead of doing so, however, fair, false, initial groups have been created that have entered between 200 and 300 people who will not be able to obtain 3 million signatures in the legal order. This was only done to block or prevent the "Paternity" party from holding a real referendum on the sale of Ukrainian agricultural land. And the amendment applies to another. In fact, such a winning mechanism has been put in place that even if a Ukrainian farmer suddenly wins such an auction, they will say that he has not signed something and a new protocol will be drawn up, and another foreigner or foreign bank will be recognized as the winner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u67	I'll bet you 530 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:02:52]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line 532. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u68	I want to turn to Yvchenko, Fatherland, everyone for the farmer's day. Fellows, do you know that today in this law you are being deprived of the priority rights of land leases directly through electronic auctions? All farmers are at risk today, as the priorities will be given to speculators who will sit somewhere in the same office in Kiev and enter all electronic auctions throughout the country. Local farmers will fight with Chinese or office farmers, as it were. So, colleagues, such insurers, this law does not provide that it is those farmers who work so that the farmers who created the farms, the farmers who actually invest in rebuilding the village's infrastructure, who will be at war with Kiev's cabinet farmers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u69	532 Edit Yvchenka. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:04:31]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Yvchenko, 531 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u70	Thank you, Mr. Head. Colleagues, these bills that you're adopting today under what's called land reform, they should go for it. For the benefit of those people who voted for you first. For the benefit of those who believed that this land reform would really enable and preserve a certain agricultural business, such as organics, animals, people who made big investments in long-term plantings. Maybe it was. But unfortunately, that's how they're deepening the reform that is being done by the speculator, by the people who are not going to invest in agriculture today, and they're going to be spending this money exclusively on a sub-brand -- that's the big problem with this reform. And it's because of these electronic auctions that our farmers will compete with the cabinet farmers who will be sitting in the offices of Kiev. It's a disgrace, it's a law about.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u71	I'll bet you 531 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:05:59]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 537 law, Timoshenko. 533rd, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u72	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Dear Ukrainians, in two weeks, the "Serve of the People" team will return to their circles, please explain to your supporters why you, dear Ukrainians, are against the sale of Ukrainian land. We find it very difficult to find these arguments, although they are very logical and consistent. So if we fail, we, the direct representatives of your interests here, in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, explain to them yourself. Explain to them by any means, but to make it clear that 70 percent of you, they're just against selling Ukrainian land, they're not going to have electronic access to sell land. We make the law technically impossible to execute, and the "ministers of the people" do it knowingly. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u73	I'll bet you 533 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:07:33]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Timoshenko, 537. Cymbaluk instead of Timoshenko? Cymbaluk instead of Timoshenko, 537 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u74	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Our team continues to demand: first the referendum on earth and then the bill. It is on May 22, this year that the Kyiv region will host an initiative group that will represent each of the peoples of our nation. And the "Fatherland" team supports representatives of public organizations, farmers, to hold such initiatives. They are the ones who will require the CEC to issue signed letters on the collection of signatures for the holding of the U.S. referendum. And my bill, along with Julia Tymoshenko, requires that we allow land auctions, not in terms of the price offered by the buyer, but in terms of the business plan for land use with specific indicators. It also provides conditions for market review if the indicators are not reached, i.e. the signs of land purchase as a deposit or.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u75	I'm betting on the 537th Amendment of the Cymbaluk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:09:12]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 540 correct. You're an outcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u76	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. I insist on my right. I insist that the united territorial communities that are now formed, where you, the respected citizens of Ukraine, choose local authority, get, first, all the land at your disposal, use. So that you can manage the earth. Provide, give you time, order on your home land. Now your land commissions have finally come to terms with what and who has stolen from your land and how they have stolen Ukrainian land. So it's time to take the second fair step -- justice on Ukrainian soil: it's for Ukrainian citizens to decide the fate of the country in the whole Ukrainian referendum. As the Fatherland faction, we insist that you Ukrainian citizens first own, manage, and use your own land. There is no way to allow foreign citizens or foreigners to have access to Ukrainian land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u77	I'll bet you 540 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:10:42]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 541 revisions, Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u78	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, did you ask Ukrainian farmers if they needed such a law? And you asked the territorial communities, do they agree that their farmers are going to fight cabinet farmers in Kiev? Have you asked today the agricultural sector that you're running speculators, those that have nothing to do with agriculture? Have you identified safeguards to protect investments that have already been invested in agriculture, such as organics, animals, long - term plantings, and so forth? Colleagues, there's a lot of problems that we're trying to tell you about and they're going to lead to trouble. They will lead to social conflicts in the territories. They will lead to the failure of these rural, rural, or united communities to understand why a farmer from Kiev would win an auction on their land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u79	541 axles. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:12:09]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 544th, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u80	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Dear Ukrainians, please remember and record in your calendars the date May 22, 2021 -- this is your chance to go out and publicly inform everyone -- the public, the media, that 70 percent of you have spoken out against the sale of Ukrainian lands and against the transfer of property to Ukrainians. It is May 22, 2021, which can be the point of no return in this entire era with the adoption of a third bill aimed at the sale of uncontrollable and chaotic Ukrainian lands. We are waiting for you, we assure you of our support, and we will certainly be able to do so and break this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u81	I'm betting on a vote of 544 Kabachenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:13:40]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Ivchenko, 542 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u82	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we want to reach you again on behalf of the farmers, on behalf of the village heads. Believe me, the village heads today need to understand, and most of them realize that the "office farmers" who are going to win auctions, they're not going to spend any money helping their village, they're not going to spend any money on infrastructure, they're not going to do anything to help the united territorial communities. Because these are cabinet farmers, they're speculators, they're people who don't create agriculture, they're people who are going to be speculative about transferring the right land further. So I am confident that this law will not lead to rural, village councils being satisfied with people who will take the land within their population.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u83	I'm betting on a vote of 542. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:15:11]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 546 law, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u84	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, our approach to this bill was quite different. We suggested that you make a centralized body in an example (such an organ already exists in France) that we call a "earth agency" that is centrally managed by the entire Bank of Ukraine. So it was centrally owned by the Dergeokadastr, it could balance each time and what is in the state today remains in state ownership and which balancing land can be transferred into private hands. This amendment number 544, I'm sorry, number 546, this is what it refers to. We delete the possibility of selling property to land during the land trade and leave only the right to lease. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u85	I'll bet you 546 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:16:40]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 559 requisitions, Advise.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u86	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. May 22 is not just for us a day where we support all the communities that go to the Bouchán district of Kyiv. For us this is the day when we want and urge, including authority: Come to these congregations, listen to the people! Hear that the U.S. referendum is inevitable, and it will happen, because people’s will is not to stop it, nor is the truth to stop it. As long as people do not stop, they really struggle to live on their own land, to own this native land, but also to fill local budgets at the expense of land use, as a result of the need for every income in the local budget for the unified communities (schools, hospitals, roads, including). That's why Fatherland is fighting for the U.S. referendum and for the land to belong to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u87	I'll bet you 559 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:12]] For-67 The decision is not taken. 562 axle. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u88	Thank you, Mr. Head. I reiterate that, unfortunately, this set of three laws: the opening of the agricultural land market, the amendment of the Earth Code, and this bill -- all three bills are completely unconstitutional. In fact, they deprive Ukrainian farmers of the opportunity to become real owners of agricultural land. And this is done in a completely different way and different mechanisms. In particular, it remains, not only does it stay, but it strengthens (and also in this bill) the ability of foreigners to participate in land trade, foreign legal persons, foreign banks. There are also mechanisms for determining the winners that can be carried out manually. And if a "sudden" person who wins this tender by accident (again in paws) can be easily removed by means of the winning mechanism. So I'm asking you to support number 562. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u89	I'll bet you 562 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:19:44]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 563 revisions, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u90	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, when you ask, why do we give so many rights? This is because no one on the committee has considered the appropriate remedies in this way. And we want to bring information to the Ukrainian people, to the heads of local self-government, to farmers about this law. First. The village councils and village councils will be very dissatisfied because the "office farmers" will participate in auctions and will have no relation to this area, not even run a business there. That's a problem because they're going to count on support, and these cabinet farmers are never going to give that support. So it's important to understand that for the benefit of the territorial communities, these electronic auctions will not go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u91	I'll bet you 563 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:21:11]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next item is 564. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u92	Colleagues, this amendment is about the reward. You can imagine that there are certain auctions in the yard, and someone owns those auctions. Yes, the state will own the central, so to speak, the first level. And the second level is going to be private courses and they're going to get a reward for holding the auction. Please tell me, who will belong to the respective sites? Who's gonna be behind these pitches? And who will receive such money directly? Colleagues, here's the question of whether or not they belong to the state, so that the state wins the sale of rent rights, the state. And the local farmer, who needs to be accurately involved, is informed about the direct conduct of such an electronic auction. And by the way, we need to get a detailed program on how to provide salt on the Internet, and we need to do it free of charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u93	I'm betting on a vote of 564. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:22:41]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 565 revisions, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u94	My colleagues, we promised you, more specifically, you promised to build a village development fund. You promised, and it's stipulated in Law 2178-10. Where's the fund? I'm asking the government, where is this fund? You open up the land market, the corresponding taxes will be paid, the percentages will be paid. Where will the money go? Where's the fund? I'll ask you again, colleagues, why don't you ask me if you've been deceived again? You've been deceived, there's no foundation created, there's no foundation! And the government isn't even prepared to do that. Shame on those words and those who so betrayed the Ukrainian village and the Ukrainian farmer. Not even a fund has been created for the development of a village where it has the money to go from these sales directly to the development of infrastructure. You've invaded the village and the farmers today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u95	I'll bet you 565 Ichchenka's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:10]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 566th, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u96	My colleagues, once again, I want to say that we're being misled again. No foundation was created that night in Law 2178. No financial mechanisms and institutions that will support farmers and allow them to be competitive and have the opportunity to buy something for themselves and their family have been created. On the other hand, colleagues are separate from the government. On the contrary, the government wants to delay for the following year. What did they do these six months? And what did they do in the last year? So, of course, you have to make an assessment of why you promised Ukrainian citizens in your districts, and today they won't tell you why they didn't. These are mistakes, colleagues, during the opening of a market or so - called land reform, and this must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u97	I'll bet you 566 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:43]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Kabachenko, 567.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u98	Thank you. Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, the bill introduces the procedure for conducting electronic commerce. It is easy to assume that to be able to conduct e-commerce, you need to have an internet connection. The latest statistics on Internet dissemination in Ukraine, the latest figures: 21 percent of agricultural workers have access to the Internet, only 3 percent of farmers have access to the Internet, and 58 percent of Ukrainians have access to the Internet all over the country. A logical, consistent question. For whom is this bill adopted: for those 3 percent of farmers who have access to the Internet, or for those 97 percent of farmers who do not have access to the Internet? It's a simple logical question. Please answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u99	I'll bet you 567 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:12]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Scrum, 570 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u100	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. In fact, both this bill and my next bill relate to the legal consequences of trades in areas sold to foreign states or lawyers that need to be reconciled by the government and the Supreme Council or the Supreme Council. We are forced to make these amendments for confirmation today because our most important amendments to the fact that all these land laws only work after the decision and the decision-making process in the U.S. referendum, unfortunately, are being rejected. If our amendments were adopted, that these laws would only work after these issues were brought to a referendum in the country, we probably didn't have to make any other amendments. But today we are forced to fight for citizens to have the right to vote on whether to sell, to alienate, including at electronic commerce, land and Ukrainian land, and to improve at any rate these bills, which leave a lot of transparent spots, and unfortunately they will create major problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u101	Oh, I see you're here, Ivan Ivanovich. Yeah, right now. 570 lashes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:28:56]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 569, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u102	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, the "Fatherland" faction is not the only political power in this sessionary hall that is really fighting for the land of agricultural destination to remain with the Ukrainian farmer. So that the land of agricultural destination will not become a wasteful material in the sense that the Ukrainians will remain landless and will not be able to grow or harvest crops on their soil. That's why we're proposing that laws like these are now being considered so that they won't be adopted in Parliament, so that we can be heard by the MPs, and in order to protect the Ukrainian land. On the initiative of Julia Timoshenko, on May 22 there will be an initiative group, where we will propose to hold a referendum on whether people support the sale of Ukrainian land. And only then can any law be passed -- after the will of the people is expressed in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u103	I'm betting on a vote of 569 amendments to the people's parliament of Krulka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:28]] For-65
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u104	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line Vlasenka, 572th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u105	Thank you, Mr. Head. What's the position of the Party and the Fatherland faction on the land issue? First, we believe that any bill can be considered only after a U.S. referendum is held. Secondly, if a referendum says yes to Ukraine, the concept of market opening should be the next. All the owners of the pies should have the right to sell them, to have the right to sell them exclusively to the state, no one else. All other players in the land market should receive land only for rent. And such market participants should usually be Ukrainian farmers, small and medium-sized farmers who have worked directly on this land for many, many years. And then auctions, even if they are auctioning in such a concept, should be auctions only for the sale of land leases, not for the sale of ownership rights to such land. And it is absolutely clear that neither foreign nor foreign banks nor foreign legal persons should participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u106	I'm betting on the vote number 572 of the owner. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:00]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 573. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u107	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, how will the Ukrainian village live after the adoption of this law? Is it not interesting how the budgets of local communities will be filled after the adoption of this law? Is it not interesting that Ukrainian farmers or those working in the respective united territorial communities will compete with "office farmers" from Kiev? Colleagues, is it not interesting to correct and make sure that this law actually has appropriate safeguards for those farmers who work in the community, about their mandatory information, about their having, in fact, priorities during these auctions and so forth? Colleagues, is it not interesting to know who will receive the tremendous rewards of conducting such auctions from the appropriate venues? Really, colleagues, it's not interesting that a speculator doesn't go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u108	I'll bet you 573 Yvchenka's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:33:35]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Kabachenko, 574.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u109	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Returning to the concept that was originally proposed by the "Fatherland" team for the creation of a land agency. The land agency itself could concentrate its functions, including conducting electronic auctions. The land agency itself could be centralized to see which land it could place on the market, and in what areas and which lands it still needs to be left in public property in order to protect the interests of the state. If you and I introduce an electronic commerce procedure today that is chaotic, uncontrollable, if we don't have a central authority to monitor the amount of land sold daily, we'll be in chaos with you. I'm asking you to back this up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u110	I'll bet you 574 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:35:02]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 579th, Scrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u111	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, this law also applies to the legal consequences of land trade and how they are to be carried out. And I have to say that, you know, we have to make these amendments today in order to make some sort of minimal architecture for a successful Ukrainian land structure. Unfortunately, the hall does not support us today, but we still have to take this position. You know, when the great President of the United States of America, John Quincy Adams, the sixth President of the United States, the person who wrote the U.S. Constitution, asked why he was doing such a boring job as politics, he said that I was forced to do this today, perhaps sometimes not as interesting and boring work as politics, so that my sons could already do philosophy and mathematics; and my sons would have to do philosophy, mathematics history so that their children could forget about these sciences, study music, poetry of literature and sculpture. Today, colleagues, we have not yet created the architecture of a successful Ukraine and are forced to pursue politics and have to deal with the most important issues for Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u112	I'll bet you 579 votes. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:33]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 580 law, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u113	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, everyone knows that the United Nations has announced a decade of family farming, everyone knows that key international organizations have declared hunger a major threat for the next 10 or 20 years. Ukraine has a priceless treasure – our agricultural land, which can feed 320 million people in the world, to bring about 180 billion euros in income to Ukraine in the processing of agriculture, raw materials. That means we're practically going to have no financial deficits, which means if we do the right agrarian policy, we're going to have millions of jobs with you and we're going to have a powerful middle class. That law that is now being passed, which was adopted before the sale of the land, crosses that prospect, do not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u114	I'll bet you 580 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:04]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 582 law. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u115	Thank you, Mr. Head. This is another amendment that applies to conceptual things. Once again, the position of the Fatherland faction is next. The only way to open the market is after the referendum, which, by the way, "The Fatherland" will start on May 22, this year, and we invite everyone to an initiative group meeting. Secondly, if in the referendum the Ukrainian people, as the owner of the land, say "yes", then it is necessary to build such a land relationship that the owners of the pies should sell them, would be able to sell them to the state, and then all relations would be built only on land leases by Ukrainian farmers, first of all by Ukrainian farmers. And then no auctions from the sale of agricultural land should take place at all, there should be auctions on land leases. And the Ukrainian farmers who work on this land should have the right of priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u116	I'm betting on a vote of 582 Vlastenka's right. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:39:36]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 583, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u117	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I would like you and I to understand clearly that what is being proposed as land reform today is not responding to any criticism. There is no protection for today’s producers, especially small and small ones. You're not asking the government of Smigal that he was misleading you, and you're misleading our farmers and misleading all the producers. Where's the law where the farm support fund is? Where is it? Colleagues, where will the money go from buying land? Why will private playgrounds receive a direct reward? Why would "cabinary farmers" have priority over local farmers who work in the respective territorial communities? Colleagues, all these problems could have been solved to make a wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u118	I'm betting on the vote number 583 Yvchenka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:41:09]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 584 straight, Cabachenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u119	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. Colleagues, the essence of all my rights with regard to article 137 of the Ukrainian Code of Land is the following. I suggest you compromise to keep two forms of auctions: the electronic form of auctions you're launching; and the offline auctions that have already been introduced to you, which have already worked, which have shown success in your approach. If we leave two approaches to conducting trades, both electronically and offline, we will be able to ensure equal access for all interested parties in Ukraine to trade. And that's why every Ukrainian citizen will have equal rights to rent.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u120	I'm betting on a vote of 584 Kabachenko. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:40]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 585th, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u121	On May 22, 2021, when the initiative group, organized and with the full support of Fatherland, will begin its work throughout Ukraine, in Ukrainians, citizens who have said 70 percent of whom have spoken against the land market will be able to go out and publicly claim their position. We are waiting for the support of the Ukrainians. And we're telling the Ukrainians right now that Ukrainians can count on our support because the consistent position of the Fatherland faction is this: we support good farmers. A good farmer is the farmer who uses his land for farming purposes, and he is not the person who buys the land to sell it to another foreign person by speculative means. Edited please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u122	I'm betting on a vote of 585 Kabachenko's amendment. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:09]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u123	Next amendment 586. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u124	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Edit 586 is a logical extension of 584 and 585. Once again, while the "Serial of the People" team has completely erased the active positions of Article 137, we are returning the action of these provisions. Specifically, 586. It says that this right remains an active part of article 137 of the Ukraine’s Land Code on the non-receiving of a winner who has refused to sign the protocol to re-sell. So this amendment, it doesn't introduce a new procedure, it just leaves the rules that were already laid down in the Ukrainian Code of Land. I'm asking you to back this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u125	I'm betting on a vote of 586 amendments to the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:45:29]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next 587. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u126	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. What's this paper about? This amendment also changes Article 137, but part 24. We're deleting any possibility of selling property rights to emphyteus during electronic and offline trades. The only thing we're leaving and what we insist on is to leave the lease. Because, as we have repeatedly said, a good farmer rents land to be used exclusively for his agricultural purposes, that is, to maximize the amount of crops he can get from his land. You and I have to clear all the rights that could harm Ukraine in its administration of Ukrainian land. Thank you. I'm asking you to back this up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u127	I bet on the vote of 587 the amendment of the people's deputy Kabachenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:46:49]] For-65 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 588. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u128	Returning to the concept of implementing a land agency that I don't get tired of talking about every time I comment on my rights. As long as you and I are implementing a centralized body that will manage the land and land rights of state, municipal property, you and I solve a very big problem. Because the ultimate responsibility for managing state and municipal property is going to be in one centralized body. And the person responsible for this organ, it's not a collegiate organ, it's a one-person body, it's responsible for any decision it makes. And so if you and I implement this mechanism, it's the government agency that can handle both lease rights and ownership rights on the land of state and municipal property. Thank you so much for your support. I'm asking you to back this up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u129	I bet on the vote of 588 the amendment of the national deputy Kabachenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:48:16]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 589th. Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u130	Returning to the concept of a land agency. During the debates on the committee, during the debates on the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, during the media debates, every time we asked the members of the People's Servant team why you were speaking out against the concept of implementing a land agency, we never got a clear answer. I think I'm even convinced that not everyone understands what "state land agency" means. For every type of industry or economic activity in Ukraine, the CEV (central executive authority) is responsible for the introduction and execution of economic activity. So why do we not want to repeat the experience that exists in Ukraine and introduce the same body, but which would have the most valuable resource in Ukraine — the land? Thank you for supporting this exercise.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u131	I'll bet you 589 votes, Kabachenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:44]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 590 right, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u132	A further step after the establishment of the land agency would be to grant the farmer the right to own the land he processes. But on the one condition that he's been processing this land for more than 10 years. If you and I are setting up a safety net in the form of 10 years of sequential land processing, that means that this farmer has already declared his integrity. This means that this is a virtuous farmer, and that the land he manages, he's already going to have his right to own it and he's going to manage it a little bit differently. Let's bring this fuse with you, let's go back to the concept of the implementation of the Ukrainian land agency. Let's make a civilised market for the land of state and municipal property here in Ukraine, in the country we live in. I'm asking you to back this up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u133	I'm betting on the 590th vote, Kabachenko. Please identify and vote. [[11:51:08]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 592nd, Kabachenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u134	Amendment 591. This law also amends Article 137, part twenty - eight. This right excludes the possibility of selling the land of state and municipal property and the rights to it in the form of superficio or emphysema. That is, once again, we insist that all subjects of farming have the right to rent until they demonstrate their integrity in the administration of agricultural land. Just after the deadline of 10 years, we will return to the issue of granting ownership rights to the land he handles and manages. Edit 591 please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u135	Now I'm doing 592, then I'm doing 591. I'll bet you 592 votes. Please identify and vote. [[11:52:34]] For-68 The decision is not taken. 591 law, Cabachenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u136	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, frankly. No, now I even want to go to the Ukrainians. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ukrainian community, frankly, there is nothing of interest to your will to the members of the "Serve of the People" faction. You've already said twice and voted twice during a social survey that you're against the sale of agricultural land, and yet we're still sitting in this room, considering the law that Ukraine doesn't need today. And we are simply required to vote for what is completely unacceptable and not accepted by the world at all. At a time when all nations are concentrating the land bank on their property, we're doing a completely illogical conflict and we're starting to sell out what's left of us. This is the last resource of Ukraine left today. I'm asking you to back this up. Let's support the Ukrainian farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u137	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 591 Kabachenko. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:54:04]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 593. Cool. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u138	He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u139	Oh, he insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u140	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, he insists. What we understand is that the whole purpose of adopting these bills is, in fact, to take the Ukrainian land away from the Ukrainians. That's why Fatherland is the only political force left in this room that's fighting for Ukrainians to be masters of their own land. And now many underestimate all the threats posed by the introduction of so - called land reform, which has nothing to do with reform. As the Ukrainians had already been deceived when they were told that they would be the owners of the businesses and that the vouchers had been issued to them. Similarly, they are now told that they will be able to buy land. Nothing a simple Ukrainian can buy. And what he has and processes will be taken from him. So only the referendum and only the decision of the people in the referendum how to manage the Ukrainian land. That's what Fatherland requires.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u141	I'll bet on a vote of 593. Please identify and vote. [[11:55:31]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 597th, Scrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u142	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. This amendment refers to how land auctions are to take place at lotteries and when they are to be considered completed. It's just that the lot here is the right to rent and use the land, including for foreign citizens and foreign banks, so we have to raise these questions all the time, we have to make our position to people and our corrections and we have to do, unfortunately, what we're told here in the hall sometimes, with such a boring job, because few of us are open to hearing in the hall right now. Because if we don't do it now, I'm afraid that a huge number of mistakes, tragic mistakes, we're going to have to correct and deal with them for the next few decades. And I wouldn't want any mistakes that could be made today in the land administration architecture in Ukraine that were irreversible. And that's exactly why we work in this room today, and that's what we see our problem here. And I'm asking you to make this amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u143	I'll bet you a vote. In view of that, you may have meant something. I'm betting on a vote of 597. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:00]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 599 law, Timoshenko. Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u144	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. This bill, if approved, destroys agriculture in Ukraine as a class, which is still estimated to be just over 16,000 per nation. The "Paternity" team offers its rights to buy land from a government agency on land auctions and to rent farmers or other users for 10 years or more with the right to ransom. Then farmers will be competitive. My specific application with Yulia Timoshenko applies specifically to the land trade for lotteries. To be sure, they will then enter into force when an agreement on land use is concluded, not just the price paid for the land itself. Please put the amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u145	I'll bet you 599 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:30.]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 601 requisitions, Nadvajchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u146	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. With my permission, I propose, however, and insist on voting, so that we can clearly identify ourselves and, as the faction of the Fatherland insists, calm people once and for all, calm the united territorial communities that the state and municipal land can be passed on to rent or to the right of use. But coming from this land, from the land of Ukraine, to belong to the united territorial communities, that is, to the people. Ask him at the Plains. Ask him in Zaporozhye. Is there money to fix the school? To keep up, do teachers have money in the community or not? So we insist that we do what we have to do in the country, in the Ukraine, to leave the opportunity for people to live on their own land, to have a future, to live richly and stablely. And most of all, this has to be decided in an all-U.S. referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u147	I'll bet on the 601th draft. Please identify and vote. [[11:59:56]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 12:00. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u148	Let's get to work, fellows. Next item. Vlasenko. Don't insist. Yvchenko. Don't insist. Kabachenko. Nor does he insist. Cool. Tymoshenko. Scram. Cool. Don't insist. (No, no. 12:30.) You're an outcast. Don't insist. Scram. Don't insist. Taruta. Don't insist. Vlasenko. None. Yvchenko. None. I'm on my way so there won't be any questions from my colleagues. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, 664.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u149	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, I address you. I'll have you guys sit down next to me. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'm addressing you personally. Notice the version, and how does it sound, and how does it respond? Literally, "Commerce can be admitted not only because of the presence of one participant but also because of the absence of participants." Please tell me, is this a technical error? Please tell me, is this intentional because it's an opposition? Would you please tell me that this is a great idea that there were no bidders, and then the earth went in huge amounts of other schemes? Dmitri Alexanderovich, that's not possible. That is why we are against such reforms, against such work against the laws of Ukraine. You can't do that. People are good, please explain. Then you're indignant that we're against it. Tell me, this amendment is what?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u150	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. No 665 is supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. 64th, yeah, 64th. 664. Please identify and vote. [[12:33:49]] For-30 The decision is not taken. 665th, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u151	Vadim Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u152	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u153	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear fellows, I appeal to you once again: the government has misled us today, the government has misled us all today. Because Law 2178 provided for a specially designed fund for the development of rural areas. The Schmigal government has not taken any steps to bring a bill to Parliament to ensure that this fund exists. How can we open up the market for land today when there is no fund created when the funds don't go to rural development from land-sales? You realize that there is no farm support fund either. And the concept that you're proposing is not support for farmers directly, it's an insurance company that's going to compensate for the cost of the first premium, insurance the cost of the first premium and so on. Colleagues, these are problems, the problem is that the concept that you're proposing doesn't correspond to the national one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u154	I'll bet you 665 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:35:27]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Kabachenko. None. Scram. None. You're an outcast. None. Vlasenko, 680 straight. Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u155	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, once again, I want to emphasize that the position of the Fatherland faction is the following. We're asking Ukrainian citizens, the Ukrainian people, whether they own Ukrainian land, or whether the Ukrainian people are ready to open the market. If a referendum says yes, then you have to build a market in such a way that first those who have pies have the opportunity to sell them to the state. The only buyer of agricultural land should then be the State. And then those who work on agricultural land, large, small, and medium - size farmers, must rent the land. This is the strategic position of Fatherland. Instead, the law that we are currently discussing provides an opportunity to buy land for foreigners, foreign legal persons and mechanisms, including the setting-up of trade results, designed to manipulate them as you please. And then I ask you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u156	I'll bet you 680 Vlasenka's vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:37:02]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Next item. Schromium, 686.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u157	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. These adjustments also apply to the way land auctions will take place at lotteries, in which order and how this is to be determined in the act of an electronic operator. Because the devil, as always, you know, lies in detail. And that's exactly what my colleague Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko was talking about, that's exactly what Vadim Yvchenko is talking about, and that's exactly what we're denying. Because they're putting huge risks in that even if Ukrainians say they're for selling agricultural land, there's going to be abuse and problems with access to these e-commerce, and the problem is that if the trade doesn't happen, where does the land go on and how does the land go? And it is in these legal subtleties that, unfortunately, there are many risks. So we tried a lot of our amendments, not just to express our political position, but to try to correct and correct the specific things and the specific gaps in this law. Unfortunately, most of our rights are not accepted. I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u158	I'm betting on 686 Schrum's vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:34]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. Yvchenko. Don't insist. Cool. Don't insist. Next up, Vlasenko, 695.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u159	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm going to point out once again that this block of my rights is about not being able to sell agricultural land. The agricultural land can only be sold by the owners of the pies and only by the state – this is the position of the Party and the faction of the Fatherland. And then all other farmers, and first and foremost Ukrainian farmers, have to get land for a long - term lease. So the whole right-wing system that I'm currently standing up for is this direction of the Fatherland faction, this kind of reformation of this inconvenient law, is trying to at least correct it a little bit. There are unconstitutional positions in this law, such as the ability of foreigners to acquire agricultural land. But in order for this to not become an object of consideration in the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court is now blocked. And the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u160	I'm betting on the vote number 695 of the owner. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:24]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next, Shkrum, 699.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u161	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Once again, this amendment refers to an important question: remove the word "emphithevsis" from the second part of Article 139. And many of our amendments are trying to correct, in any case, the system of electronic commerce that will take place answers the question of what should be the order of sale of such land from lotteries, and what should be noted in the act of the operator of the electronic site. Because unfortunately, until the government has been built, until the crystal - clear, transparent professional public service is rebuilt, the possibility of such abuses in our country is unlimited. People understand that. I'm very sorry that the parliamentarians in this room don't always understand that. But as long as we don't have a professional government, we don't have normal, transparent, honest public service competitions, and we don't have to be responsible for the quality of those people who are going to issue these acts and decide what to do in one situation or another, trust me, I don't think we're going to see them either. I'd like to make a mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u162	I'm betting on a vote of 699 amendments to the national deputy Shkrum. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:51]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Taruta. None. Outlaw, 701s. None. 702, Vlasenko. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, I would like to emphasize that the faction and the Party of the Fatherland are taking a firm stand against the bill in the way it is now being pushed forward. By the way, my colleague, Vadim Yvchenko, asked who would be behind those plots where they would sell land. They will be followed by the same people behind the rostrums and pushing the bill. So it's made perfectly clear, it's totally understandable why and so forth. But once again, the "Fatherland" faction thinks that only the owner of the pies and only the state can sell the land. Even at auctions, if auctions are to be made, they should not be subject to the sale of either the right to superfiche or the right to emphithesis of land, but only the right to rent land and with the sole right of farmers to purchase such a right to rent. But that's only possible after the U.S. referendum. That's my 702, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u164	I'm betting on a vote of 702 amendments to the People's Deputies of Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:31]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 703. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u165	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today it is possible that it was right to choose the concept directly on the circulation of agricultural land. All countries of the world today are fighting for food security. Food has been on the rise ever since 2007. There is hunger in countries, you see, there is not enough food in many parts of the world. You and I are handing over land to private property, and people for today's day will grow what they want, and then other countries will feed through traders. And we are putting our Ukrainians in danger of food. In this way, we're depriving our farmers of these fuses of winning auctions on state land. Colleagues, consider, this law does not suit the national interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u166	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 703 amendments to the People's Deputies Ivchenka and Meidich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:01]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 704, Schkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u167	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, this amendment is actually about a very important issue. It tells us that, together with the announcement in the electronic media of such trades, it should be announced in the printed media at the location of the land and the publication and the results of the bidding of such trades, and the publication of information on such trades. On more than one occasion, my colleague Kabachenko and others talked about what coverage is today in Ukraine, what coverage is today among farmers and farmers' associations, especially the small and medium-sized farmers in remote regions are unlikely to have to literally follow everything online from day one. So we've offered a lot of compromise things about what should at least be a transitional period when such disclosure of information about both results and announcements, and about the movement, will be carried out, including in printed media. Regrettably, these amendments are rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u168	I'm betting on a vote of 704 Schrum. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:46:39]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 705. Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u169	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want the people who can hear us right now to know what's going on in this Supreme Council. In this Supreme Council, at the direction of the President of Ukraine, essentially from July 1st he prepares for the sale of agricultural land. Therefore, as the amendments to the Codex earth were adopted, everything, including valuable lands, forests, lakes, and reserves, is being sold. In addition, farmers are deprived of the land ownership they were granted in the 1990s. This means that agriculture is simply destroying itself. In addition, it is granted the right to sell the land to foreigners because the Land Code forbids the sale of the land to foreigners. You have the right to remove the top layer of fertile land without any agreement, barbaricly. So they're not just selling land, they're selling land for barbaric use. Vote against it!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u170	I'll bet you a vote of 705. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:12]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 710 right. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u171	Yvchenko, Fatherland. So here, dear fellows, I want to remind you that today all countries that are starving are fighting for food. And many governments regret that they do not have fertile land. Today, 25 percent of all black people are directly concentrated in Ukraine. And we should manage such a resource so that we really are a food store for the world. But remember, we have our own farmers, we have more than 40,000 registered. We have four million individuals who need to be able to register and participate in this vicinity of the earth. Provide access to financial and credit resources. And the main thing is that locals win auctions. And that's what my colleague, Alona Skrum, said, is that the announcements should be in the printed media of the local media, not the electronics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u172	I'll bet you 710 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:49:42]] For-52 The decision is not taken. 711 right, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, what's the point of this? I'll give you one example. In Germany a few hundred hectares were sold last year. In the northern part of the Baltic region, the plots are from 70 to 100,000 euros per hectare. In the south, Bavaria ranges from 100,000 to 140-170,000 euros per hectare. Public information for the whole world. The Germans don't trade much land, if they do trade, for themselves, for their farmers. Our proposal is that you publish the results of the trade at least in the local district. Declined. So what is it, good people?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u174	I'll bet you 711 votes. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:02]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 715th, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u175	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, we are considering this bill, which is to legitimize the so-called land reform. A land reform that will in fact bring no good to Ukraine, which will only damage the development of Ukrainian agriculture. Why does Fatherland propose to make a civilized land lease in this room, but the state has to control the land? Because Ukrainian land is also an area. And it's not going to turn out that way when, through foreign banks, huge land areas that are going to be equal to a third of the area are going to be in the hands of foreigners, and they're going to tell us that this is no longer the territory of Ukraine. Therefore, the earth needs to be treated with extreme seriousness. That's why Fatherland is proposing a referendum to ban the sale of Ukrainian lands and Ukrainian territory. But most importantly, we demand that the land be in the hands of Ukrainian farmers who are to process it and make profit.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u176	I'll bet you 715 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:36]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 716 correct, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u177	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We think of it as a "Paternity" faction that the only civilized opportunity for Ukrainian farmers to process Ukrainian land is to allow those foster parents who want it to sell the land to the state at a fixed price that is going to be equal to the value of the land in our neighbours' countries. But the land can be leased exclusively by the State. Then the state will control the earth’s situation. Then people who have pies will be able to sell their pies to the state. But most importantly, we're not going to allow a situation where Ukrainians become landless and essentially anchors on their land, when Ukrainian villages disappear and die, they're going to shut down, as it is now, the FAP, the hospital, the schools -- all the rural infrastructure. And essentially, there's the complete destruction of the Ukrainian village and the Ukrainian village.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u178	I'll bet on a vote of 716 the amendment of the People's Deputy Krulka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:54:08]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 717, Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u179	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, the following few rights, and exactly three, we're together, so I can summarize a little bit about these decisions. As you can see, no amendment to the opposition has been made. As you can see, we're trying at least the details, and the devil is always in detail, to regulate that people have better access to electronic auctions, so that people can see the announcement of electronic auctions not only on the Internet, to which they don't always even have access, but also in print media at least district, local rural value, about not being able to change the target destination of the lands that are leased at auctions. Sadly, though, none of this is accepted. Besides, until you and I form a clear and transparent system of government and public service, when people come to the public service, who meet at least the minimum professional requirements and the minimum trust of society, I think that these laws work with huge gaps. Please support this exercise, and I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u180	I'm betting on a vote of 717 amendments to the national deputy Shkrum. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:39]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 718.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u181	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. And again, we're going to talk about why, as long as we have poor government and uncorrected history, when decent, professional and professional people can come into the public service, there will be a huge number of abuses by and by registrars, and those controlling bodies that are to be responsible for today's conduct and electronic auctions, and for the introduction of the land market in Ukraine in general. Today, as you may know, there are public service competitions. There were more than 48 contests for the highest public service posts yesterday, over 5,000 "B" contests. There's very little information about these competitions, very few candidates for these jobs. And the worst thing is, maybe history will be when the competitions are completely discredited during the time of this power and President Greensky and the contests will not be attended by more than 1-2 people, and all the competitions will be won by those people who were appointed outside the quarantine competition without any sampling procedures. I think we can't let that happen, and that won't give us any confidence in the public service.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u182	I'm betting on a vote of 718 amendments to the national deputy Shkrum. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:57:08]] For-53 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 720. Scum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u183	And good day again. This is my last amendment to this block. And I quoted the sixth President of the United States, John Adams, John Quincy Adams, as saying that, unfortunately, his generation was forced to engage in dirty politics, sometimes boring things, sometimes boring amendments to Congress, so that the next generation could do more interesting things, such as music, philosophy, architecture and sculpture, because the state already has state bodies and the state system is functioning normally. My friends, unfortunately, we are now at this very point where John Adams was 350 years ago, when we have to deal with such matters of a technical nature, but it is vital that normal government administration of land resources and other most important resources in Ukraine. Unfortunately, our corrections, which try to improve this situation a little bit with electronic auctions and how they are carried out, are not accepted. I'm afraid that the next generation will have to do politics again after you and me. Because the situation is not for the better.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u184	720th, Schrum. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:41]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next line, Vlasenka, 724th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I repeat that all these three laws -- both the Land Market Opening Act and the Earth Code changes -- and the law that we are discussing right now -- contain standards that are directly in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. In doing so, they provide opportunities for foreigners, foreign legal persons, to participate in trades. In particular, they include lists of documents that such persons should submit to participate in electronic commerce. Thirdly, it is absolutely clear that in a country where only 50 percent of the territory is covered by the Internet, Ukrainian farmers will not be able to reach normally through these electronic auctions. In doing so, we are offered an article called "The Priority Renter's Right to Rent Land in Ownership." As the so-called legislators see it. It turns out that the dominant right is if its proposal is equal or exceeds the proposal that is the largest. Dear colleagues, if his offer goes beyond anything else, he is a conqueror, it is not a predominant right. And usually the law when he works on earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u186	I'll bet you 724 votes. Please identify and vote. [[13:00:13]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 723 law, Labunska.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u187	Angelica Labunska, faction of Fatherland. Well, if you've already made that decision, if you've already decided to do the auction in that way. My amendment was precisely about the fact that for seven years the purpose of the land could not be changed or passed on to a suborendant. Well, Your Honor, let's think about what's going to happen next? It seems to me that this amendment is designed to preserve our most precious lands, and I ask the hall to support and think about it. We cannot just give up the earth today and change the purpose of the earth tomorrow and not know how it was used. It seems to me that this is meant to protect Ukraine and the Ukrainians themselves. Thank you, Your Honor. And I'd like you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u188	I'm betting on a vote of 723 Labunski's. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:01:39]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 725. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, I insist once again that we ask the government for the deception they have made for you -- first of all for the farmers. Last year’s colossal protests were against the earth’s market. The government promised financial mechanisms. Where are they? The government promised to pass a three - month law on the rural development fund. Where is he, colleagues? They didn't even move their fingers. They need such a government and ministers who think only of their own pockets, not of how to properly run the land directly, how to make safety nets for farmers, how to make safety nets for those who have invested colossal costs in their organic farming, long - term plantings, and so on. Fellows, why don't you ask the government that he has misled you today? And you promised the voters these funds. You promised the voters a farm support fund. Where is it, colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u190	I'm betting on the vote number 725 Yvchenka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:08]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 726th, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u191	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, any law, should not break society, but still unite society. It is important that all who believe in good intentions see real steps. So why are we talking about the government and their promises again today? For these promises, we must put them in our necks if they do not do so in time. And by the way, it's prescribed in Law 2178-10, which you were in a hurry to adopt at night. Where's the farm support fund? Where will the land development fund go directly during these sales transactions? Colleagues and many other problems. Including these electronic auctions will not benefit local communities, because local farmers will not be involved, but will be "office farmers" from Kiev to participate and win.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u192	I'll bet you 726 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:38]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 727 law, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u193	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, look, we have a lot of attention to the appropriate land reform that you've proposed. There are many observations from a legal point of view, since most of the provisions of the so-called land reform do not conform to the Constitution. "Paternality" along with agrarian associations, with scientists, we do propose that people say their word, people say their word in a referendum, people come and sign up for the initiative groups and make these 3 million signatures so that we can hear Ukrainian citizens with you. Look at the latest sociological polls: 75 percent of people are willing to come to a referendum and say their word, almost 70 of them, they're against us selling out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u194	I'm betting on a vote of 727, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:05]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 728th. Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u195	Dear Mr. Head, thank you for your word. I want to say the following, as I continued with the example of Germany, I wanted to point out that in the world now very much with a big warning, even in the civilized countries where everything was done, with a warning refer to trade in land. Germany is not itself an agrarian country; hundreds of hectares per year are measured by the number of land sold, and in Germany tens of millions of hectares are processed. Look, our amendment proposes the developing leases that we're speaking about, the Fatherland supports leases, the land should be state owned and the state should transfer to a long-term lease. Our amendment suggests that for at least 7 years we ban the transfer of land to a suborndant and alienate it for at least seven years. Friends, it's food security, it's agriculture. No, the amendment is rejected. He got a lease today, tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u196	728 revisions, the committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:34]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Krulko, 730 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u197	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The "Fatherland" faction, of course, is in the position that the Ukrainian land must be owned by the Ukrainian people. And we're very surprised that under the terms of the fact that the land will not be sold to foreigners, there was a direct rule when foreign banks would be able to own Ukrainian land. Was that not the great deception that we had warned of? The following decisions are now being proposed. When especially valuable land loses its status, when the continued use of land in general falls away as an opportunity, when, in fact, the consolidation of Ukrainians is forced to take away the land they are processing, and when most importantly, the farmers who are renting and processing the land now, they will, in fact, stand before the choice or auction, competing with international corporations, you will buy your land or, in fact, simply take it away. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u198	I'll bet you 730 Krulk's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:09:09]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 731, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u199	I'd like to continue. Against what is definitely the "Fatherland" when it says that the Ukrainian people in the U.K. referendum should speak about whether or not the Ukrainians want to sell the land. Do they think there should be a law that the Fatherland has proposed when the Ukrainian land is under the control of the state, and those who want to cultivate the land will be able to take it into a long-term lease. This is the very agricultural arrangement that is most suitable for efficient processing of the land on the one hand. On the other hand, in order for the earth to make a profit, Ukraine has been able to arrange for the cultivation of its produce in its territory. And by no means will we allow the entire territory to be under the control of international corporations through an institution of foreign banks that already have an opportunity under the law that the People's Servant has adopted to own the land. We think it's just a referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u200	I'll bet you 731 Krulk's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[1:10:42]] For-64 No decision taken, no correction counted. The next amendment is number 736, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u201	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. And in keeping with what I just said, I would like to say to all Ukrainians that Fatherland is holding a huge meeting this Saturday, where more than 17,000 people (farmers, agrarian associations, concerned citizens from all over Ukraine) are initiating with associations to hold an all-Ukrainian referendum. This initiative group, which is essentially conducted by Ukrainian farmers, should ask the All-U.S. referendum one question: are people ready for the Ukrainian land of agricultural destination to be the object of sale? And we invite those who care about the fate of Ukraine to join this initiative. We've opened telephone lines, hotlines, where you can call and.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u202	I'll bet you 736 Krulk's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:12:21]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 738, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u203	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, the 738 amendment is one of my most recent amendments (you won't believe) to this bill, which allows me to sum up a little bit of the warnings we have. Not just warnings on electronic auctions and that they will not even be printed locally in printed media. But also, if our amendment to this or previous land law were adopted that these laws would only take effect after the publication of the results of the U.S. referendum on this issue, then perhaps most of the issues would have gone away. You know, I have to study the history of land referendums today. For example, in the last U.S. elections, more than 17 local referendums were held in over 32 states, including parts of land and national parks. And these referendums showed that the authorities care about people's opinions before making such decisions. We should follow the same course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u204	I'll bet you 738 on Schrum's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:13:51]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line, Nadjajchenka, 740th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u205	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. I insist on this amendment. And we insist on the main faction of Fatherland to finally take into account the interests of the people, the rights of Ukrainian citizens. We don't care, frankly, what foreign citizens think or plan about our land, and what really worries us is whose land will be tomorrow, who will be the master of it. We know the answer: Ukrainian citizens must be the owners, and today and tomorrow it must be Ukrainian land. That's why on Ukrainian soil here and now we're demanding an all-U.S. national referendum, a national referendum. Why the referendum? Because people have to decide whether or not to do with the so - called earth market. People actually decided for themselves long ago -- they want to work and live here. And the Fatherland faction is fighting for this very right of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u206	I'm betting on a vote of 740. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:15:22]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 741st, Labunsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Service, when you went to the elections with Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski, you promised people to protect Ukraine and the Ukrainians. Well, unfortunately, the laws you are enacting today do not at all match your promises and your slogans. I think it's no secret to anyone that it's the turn of the day and there's an order today for how much land to buy. Because these prices, which are today in Ukraine, are quite cheap. So, my amendment was about our Ukrainians having a dominant right. If it can have a leased area of non-agricultural assignment under the law, it has the majority right to purchase it if it sells the land on condition that it pays the price at which it is sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u208	I'll bet you 741 votes, Labunska. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:51]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 743rd. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, we're almost done with the bill. Again, I want to tell you that this bill does not have the priority of local farmers, especially those who today support the infrastructure of the village and help united territorial communities, rural heads, elders, and so forth. This bill contains "office farmers" who will go from Kiev to auctions and win most of them. Believe me, we've been doing this since the geocadastra opened auctions since 2018. So, colleagues, it's important that you and I understand that there are anti-decentralization things here that don't produce or strengthen the local manufacturer. Today, there are no printed media available to inform such farmers. Do you understand? It's important. And that's why we're talking about the imperfections of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u210	I'm betting on a vote of 743 Ichchenka's. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:18:20]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 749 straight, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u211	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, my next two adjustments are 749th and 750th. They both apply to article 9 and to the rights of the renter that we are trying to protect. And I want to continue with my opinion, and I want to give you some examples of how many countries in the world have held referendums on redemption and the granting of ownership rights or even land leases. For example, as I said, in the United States only during the last elections, such referendums were held in 32 states. And these were real local referendums, not just a poll by the President (as we did), not just volunteers with ununderseeable status who were paid salary in mysterious ways, but the actual referendums under the procedure that the Fatherland faction is currently trying to apply. Including, you'll be surprised, it was about local referendums on the land of national parks in some U.S. states. And this, I think, is a great example of how to make these ambiguous decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u212	I'm betting on the 749th Schrum vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:19:55]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 750 right, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u213	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. This is my last amendment to this bill, colleagues. And I want to end up with something positive. I find it very difficult to find the benefit of what is happening today with land issues and land laws in the Council. But the only benefit that I can see is that we're going with you today clearly on the Rules procedure and we're going through all the amendments, both for confirmation and for consideration. And I think that this procedure, it shows that it's still minimal at least, but there's a dialogue in Parliament. I hope that our arguments, which were sufficient, were heard by the Ukrainians. Some arguments, I know, listened to colleagues. And I thank those colleagues who came to us and talked about supporting our specific initiatives and amendments, even though there were no votes in the room. And I think that this procedure, although it seems long, boring, inefficient to many, shows that parliamentaryism in the country is still there, and parliamentaryism will be strengthened. And I hope that in the future, there will be such dialogues on the committee, and the committee will take into account a lot of right rights. And then they won't sound in the hall. Courage and patience for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u214	I'm betting on the 750th Schrum vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:21:29]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 752th, Nadvajchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u215	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The "Fatherland" faction works so hard and is confident of its actions for only one reason. Because we believe in Ukraine's success, we believe that Ukrainian citizens believe in Ukraine's success. But we do not firmly believe that by selling the land to foreigners, by removing the upper layer of land, by betraying the country by buying property abroad, we can talk about a successful European state. We're saying yes to an all-Ukrainian national referendum, where Ukrainian citizens will decide the fate of the land, where people know clearly what it means to live on their own land, to have success, to have a future. Therefore, we urge all of us to support the initiative groups that will come from all over Ukraine on May 22 in the Kyiv region. And there will be a Ukrainian referendum!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u216	I'll bet you 752 copies of the application. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:02]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 753 requisitions, Advise.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u217	Thank you, Mr. Head. Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. As I continued with the fact that my highly professional colleagues and colleagues were giving me, I just looked at the value of land in Finland, Finland. So a Finnish citizen who lives near Porvoo (this is Poltava). sells now 2 hectares, auctioned for 80,000 euros. Who's he selling to? A citizen of Finland. So we have the answer to all Ukrainian citizens, first of all, we need to give you the opportunity to make money on your own land, your fellow citizens. The second is to put order on the home land so that the cadastre can be found. And the third is to allow the internal market and the value of the land to be fair. And the fact that Ukrainian land is probably more expensive than Finnish is God - given. So the U.S. referendum and nothing, and no one else will decide the fate of the Ukrainian land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u218	I'll bet you 753 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:24:30.]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next edit, Labunska, 754.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u219	Angelica Labunska, faction of Fatherland. 754 remedies are again aimed at protecting the Ukrainian farmer himself. She predicts that if the tenant is registered as an agricultural producer, he has the majority right to purchase it in the event of the sale of the land through an electronic auction, if his offer is not more than 10 percent lower than the highest bid offered by the bidders. Ladies and gentlemen, look at what is today the economic crisis, which is today in general an economic situation in the country. Let's support our agricultural producer, let's give him the predominant right to acquire land so that they can develop Ukraine and so that they can work on Ukrainian land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u220	I'll bet you 754 Labunski's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:25:57]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 755 revisions, Labunska.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u221	Yeah, unfortunately, that's my last amendment. Neither my colleagues nor mine have been approved. It is designed to protect the earth. Let us remember when we had a compulsory summation. Look what is happening to the earth. If we don't vote and ban the change in the assignment of land for seven years after it's purchased at the auction, what's left of our lands? If so, let us still ban the change of destination of land because all of the particularly valuable lands, forests -- it is unknown what will happen to them. So I ask my colleagues to vote and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u222	I'll bet you 755 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:21]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 756 correct, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u223	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Fellows, like this, in protecting a national producer, still needed to make fuses that would help be active participants in all of the money you're offering, especially small farmers, the average agricultural business, and those who are still called singles. You're depriving 4 million peasants of the opportunity to participate in these trades and auctions. You don't give them any financial support. You will be silent that the government of Smigal has never passed a bill today on the development of rural areas. The ministers of this government are doing nothing to preserve the Ukrainian village. You adopt laws where you give land to communities, but you don't allow them to change interest rates and fill their budgets. And in this law, you don't give the locals the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u224	I'll bet you 756 Yvchenka's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:28:53]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 757, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u225	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, and I want to say that "Paternity" has still remained the only faction in Parliament that has not voted in favour of the relevant laws on so-called land reform. No member of the Fatherland voted in favour of the bill you proposed on the sale of Ukrainian land. On the contrary, we support people and support those initiative groups that will arrive in Kiev on Saturday, May 22. 10,000, or maybe more people will be collecting 3 million signatures. On the contrary, we want all of us to support the referendum. Because sociological research shows that people want to say their word. Let's not delay and ask the citizens, but they chose us with you, Ukrainian citizens, for your money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u226	I'll bet you 757 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:30:21]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 758, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm addressing the faction of the European Solidarity political party in this room, and I'm addressing the Chamber of Deputies for the Future. My friends, three years ago in this room, you were also the people's advocates, and we voted with you for a unique law -- the first reading of the Constitutional Law on Farming in Ukraine was adopted by a huge number of the voices of those I have just said. Friends, why are we now taking such a firm stand against this land reform, against this law and the previous two. See, even with this amendment proposed by the Fatherland: the priority right to acquire property for the land that works on it, that is, the farmer. Declined correction. There will be no farming in Ukraine, no farming. There will be speculation, there will be aliens. I have urged you, colleagues, not to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u228	I'll bet you 758 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:31:46]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 759 law. Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, once a few weeks ago, I turned to one of the active developers of this land reform. I asked him: "Vasil Petrovich, and from July 1st, who will take the lead when the whole country stands on their ears? Can you lead this? It's got to be organized. It's millions of people, millions of people." Do you know what the answer was? He says, "Ivan Grigorovich, do I look crazy?".. Thus, it is a legitimate question before the vote. Please tell me, where is this law written? By whom is he written, and for whom? For us, the answer, "Paternals", understood -- not for Ukraine, not for Ukrainians, not for Ukrainian peasants. That's why we're calling for a definite referendum. Let's ask the people that we don't have this: three years ago we voted for the farm arrangement, and now we vote for its destruction. It can't be like that. In the end, let's ask the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u230	I'm betting on a vote of 759 Kirilenka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:33:20]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next, Krulco, 762.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u231	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I propose this amendment to introduce a cadastral protection system that will be built on the basis of Torrence titles. Torrence's title system is a model for the registration of real estate rights and at the same time a material State guarantee to the beneficiary in case of loss of assets. The Torrence system was run in Singapore in 1993 by a special law. The model is also used in Estonia, and the system in Estonia is considered to be one of the best in Europe and perfect itself. This is what I propose by this amendment to include in this law, and it is surprising to me that even such things are absolutely constructive and correct, such as the protection of the cadastre, as guarantees of the rights to immovable property and the main thing, to the ground, to those who will own it to be properly responsible, and to the State and the registrar, for the particular conduct of the register.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u232	I'll bet you 762 Krulk's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:52]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 763 right, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u233	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. In order for Ukrainian farming to develop, one of the priority tasks is to spend and increase the availability of credits for small farms for the acquisition of various kinds of techniques, for leasing, for land purchases, for farming. This is the amendment 763, which I propose, which foresees the creation of a special fund to support small Ukrainian farming. And we believe that if the farming arrangement, as the main agricultural arrangement for the Ukrainian State, is not introduced and the land is sold to international corporations, the Ukrainian peasant will be left without land. We will not have farms, quality production and most importantly, what is grown in Ukraine, will not remain in Ukraine, will be exported. That's why we're proposing a referendum and planning, and we're trying to protect Ukrainian land, Ukrainian land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u234	763 revisions. I'll put her to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:36:24]] For-63 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u235	Next, Krulco, 767.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u236	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd like to say once again to those Ukrainians who are looking at us now, one very important thing, that on May 22, we are like Fatherland, along with agrarian associations, with the initiative of farming, with the initiative of real people working on the ground, we are initiating the holding of an all-Ukrainian referendum. It's the only way to protect Ukrainian land and allow people to express themselves in a referendum, whether they want to sell land or not. Moreover, sociological surveys show that more than 70 percent of Ukrainians are firmly opposed to the sale of Ukrainian land. Moreover, Ukrainians demand that their opinion be heard and that a referendum be held. So if the state guarantees the Ukrainians the right to hold a referendum at the national initiative, we demand that such a referendum be held and not be created by the fairies that I will now talk about.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u237	I'll bet you 767 Krulk's vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:56]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 769 correct, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u238	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to inform you of what I spoke about at the briefings and the Ulya Timoshenko Conciliation Board. In the Dnipropetrov region, in a small village, there are 60 fairy groups, not 17,000 people, as the Fatherland plans to gather on May 22nd, but 60 people who seem to be planning to hold referendums. The goal of these fairy groups is to prevent real farms, real associations that want to protect Ukrainian land, and the Fatherland from having a real referendum at the people's initiative. Because the law that the Servant of the People has adopted in this session hall provides that if an initiative group has already been created, there is no way to create another one on the same issue. So these fairy groups are created for the same purpose to prevent us from holding a nationwide referendum. Still, we will strive for the truth. So I'm asking you to make this amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u239	I'll bet you a vote of 769. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:25]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 770 right, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u240	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This is my last amendment to this bill. But I would like to say the principle of our position — whether the current authorities want it or not, but we will get along with the Ukrainian people, 70 percent of whom requires a referendum to take place. And that's why we need to think right now about how you're going to "turn back" these non-Ukrainian, not for the people, decisions that actually leave Ukrainian people landless. Because we're convinced that in the U.S. referendum, people will clearly say no to the sale of Ukrainian lands. This will be the principle of the position of the Ukrainian people. And so all the laws that are now so applauding in this session hall are not worth anything, because the will of the Ukrainian people is just going to put them on a stop. And we will get the truth and justice, protect the Ukrainian farmer, and protect the Ukrainian land. The truth will take the mountain over the manipulations that our people are now feeding.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u241	I'll bet you 770 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:40:55]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, this is Speedy 3 minutes instead of 30 straights. We've been through all the other revisions. You're going to have to take one of these into account. You won't. Just three minutes. Then there's 26 confirmation licenses. And let's go to the vote. No further comments, no suggestions? None. Thank you. Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, I'm not going to put all 30 rights, because it's like spitting against the wind, you're still going to get yourself and you're not going to get anything. I just want to explain to you how a senior deputy in the Kyiv region, 93 constituency that is now taking place in connection with the laws that have been passed and with the laws that you are moving on. And there's a whole lot of land going on. To date, the earth is being raided at places where people are simply squeezing their land. Every time I come to the district, there's probably no day when I'm not asked about aiding me to get the land back. Land purchases have already begun. What's more, they buy land from other people, leased land from other farmers, and they start just nightmares, because the land is in the middle of somewhere else, and they're rented by small farmers. What happens is that people cannot get the land that is provided for by the Code of Land and the Constitution of Ukraine. Because there are no land, but there are land for relatives, neighbors, weddings, brothers, and godparents of those in power at local OTG. What happens is that it's just people of old age who, unfortunately, don't understand the jurisprudence, who unfortunately don't have the money for normal treatment, they just take away their land, they don't pay for pies, they don't pay for pies for years, because they don't have the money if they get bought. You know, you have to love the earth because it doesn't belong to us, we've borrowed it from our children, and now you're just selling it out in a terrible way. You say you're patriots of Ukraine, you put your embroidery on, you tear your shirt off, and you yell that, oh, no, we're for Ukraine, we're for Ukraine to make everything good. But in this barbaric way you're selling out the most valuable -- the land, that's what's never coming back, and that's what you're going to be responsible for in the future. Believe me, for such decisions you will be buried in this land. No decision taken against the Constitution, which was taken against the Ukrainian people, will simply go away and have the right consequences, so think.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u243	Thank you. Let's go to confirmation. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, number 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u244	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, the bill on how to sell Ukrainian land at auctions without any rules has been practically concluded. And so far, it's clear that it's starting on July 1st, the great dealination of Ukraine, Ukrainian peasants, farmers, agrarians. I can say that number 14 is completely destroying the Institute of Sales Contracts, land lease rights. So this right over here rents land outside the law, because you have to take this land out of the hands of the Ukrainian nation and at any cost, you have to own it at virtually no cost. What is being done now in the hall is a great grief for Ukraine: that there are strangers sitting there who either don't understand or spit on national interests. And that's why I urge you not to confirm this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'll bet you the license number 14 of the people's representative of Solski, if I'm not mistaken. Ready to vote? The committee's got it covered. Please support and vote. [[13:46:27]] For 277 Decision taken. Amendment number 16. Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u246	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. You've just seen those salesmen on the board who are willing to hand over the Ukrainian land. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's an absolute majority in Parliament, and you see how your interests merge without any rules. As early as the 13th century, Jean-Jacques Rousseau said that the only way to keep the state independent of everyone is by farming on their own land. At least have all the riches of the world. If you have nothing to eat, you depend on others. Trade – he said – creates wealth, but agriculture on its land provides freedom for every nation. What you're doing right now, you're not just taking away the land of the Ukrainian nation, you're taking away the Ukrainian nation, you're taking away the chance of life, you're taking away the freedom. And all of this is done under banal bribes and banal lobbyism. Don't support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u247	I'm betting on the vote number 16. The committee was counted. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:48:02]] For 268. Decision taken. 41, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u248	I'm betting on confirmation of 41 of Solski's bill, which, by the way, represents one of the groups of big landowners who, as committee manager, has a conflict of interest and now extends all the laws that sell Ukrainian land without any rules. I just want to remind you that this 41 revision essentially legalizes all of the rights of the so-called emphithesis, and this is a shadowy barrier to the peasants of the land that has already taken place. And in fact, the lease institution is being destroyed. This amendment cannot be confirmed. But I want the Ukrainians from this Supreme Council Hall not to look forward to protecting their interests. That's not why this coincidence came together. They serve the interests of the great agrarian oligarchy both inside and outside the country. And any fight against the President's oligarchy is a fairy tale. Don't support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u249	I'll bet you 41 votes. The committee counted it. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:49:36]] For 272 Decision taken. 42, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u250	Now I want to go to the Ukrainian citizens so that you can just conceptually know what's going on through this room. The sale of land in a country where peasants have long been deprived of all money and rights. There is an order in which the owners of the pies will have no absolute rights, no rights whatsoever. Or at no cost will they buy one, or forcefully, if their plots interfere with the large layers of the earth. They take away land that they have been given for permanent use, and they will be forced to buy money that does not exist. This package of laws destroys Ukrainian farming and destroys Ukraine’s right to profit from its land and to own 72 percent of the territory in general. In addition, this package of laws allows for the sale of land to foreigners. This is strictly contrary to what the President promised, he lied.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u251	I'll bet the vote 42. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:51:06]] For 273 Decision taken. Next line is 45, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u252	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. This amendment 45, just so you know, puts the sale of land only on the basis of who gives the price. All over the world, all agrarian countries are given first to their farmers. Look at France, in Germany, in Poland, in any country: if a farmer has owned his land for a time and he lives and works on this land, he has an absolute priority right over 10-20 years in a buy-out schedule. What they are now proposing with this law and specifically with regulation 45 is only money will decide. And foreign banks, foreign funds, corporations, and even the local oligarchy will pay more than any farmer for three copies, and that will end Ukrainian farming. Don't support this and all these laws in general. Vote "against"!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u253	I'll bet you 45 votes. The committee is supported. Please support and vote. It's on confirmation. [[13:52:37]] For 280 Decision taken. 71, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u254	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to say that our team, together with almost all agrarian associations, along with trade unions, including agrarians, with entrepreneurs, employers, we are fighting today against this sales parliament led by the President, who lobbies the interests of large agrarian, world and Ukrainian corporations to prevent the adoption of these laws and to prevent the sale of land under these dragon laws. Today we are opposed to selling land instead of Ukrainian farmers to foreigners. We are for Ukrainian land to make profits to Ukrainians and for Ukrainian land to produce organic produce to Ukrainian citizens. What I'm taking right now is diametrically opposite to what I'm saying. Don't support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u255	I'll bet you 71 votes. The committee is not supported. I'd like to identify that one. I'm sorry. I'm betting on the vote, she's supported by the committee. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:54:15]] For 270. Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Seventy-five.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u256	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. This revision essentially introduces a closed price proposition. You realize that this is going to be one of the big elements of the abuse in private and the deception of our agrarians and our farmers. We warn you, but all agrarians know that. They blocked roads, blocked roads, so that the laws would not be passed. They sold their handicrafts to collect at least a coin to participate in these dragon trades. Today, crops along with us all over the country are gathering strength to hold a nationwide referendum. On May 22, more than 17,000 people of the initiative group are being gathered to begin a nationwide referendum. And we'll see what the President and his environment will do to break this referendum. And don't confirm this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u257	I'll bet you 75 votes. The committee is not supported. Please. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:55:52]] For 266 Decision taken. 88, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u258	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to give this information to Ukraine right now. A recent sociological survey was conducted by the Rating Group, which found that 77 percent of the people in Ukraine wanted to hold a referendum on banning the sale of agricultural land. 75 percent of people want to come to this referendum. And the overwhelming majority will vote against the sale of the land. Nearly 80 percent against the sale of Ukrainian land to foreigners. But despite these figures, which President Zelensky knows very well, he's continuing to sell land without a referendum. It's driving the sale of land at night, in the lockdowns, into quarantines, breaking this parliament. Questions. Whose order does he perform if he knows that the nation is against? He's ordering an outside and an inner oligarchy, he's their puppet.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u259	I'll bet you vote number 88. The committee took her into account. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[13:57:26]] For 266 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 100 lashes, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u260	It's too bad people can't see what's going on in this room right now. Some 270 deputies in this Supreme Council in one way or another, under pressure or because of their own interests, serve essentially President Zelensky’s team and sell 72 percent of the territory of Ukraine. I can tell you that there is no country in the world today that would treat the Blacklands with its fertile land. There is no president in the world other than Ukraine, where against national interests a whole range of laws are extended as priority laws that deprive all generations of Ukrainians of essentially their own agricultural land. In Ukraine alone, such absurdity and hatred are being developed. Do not vote in favour of this amendment and for this law all who have a conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u261	100 amendments shall be made to the vote. It's counted by the committee. So please support and vote. [[13:58:59]] For 265 Decision taken. The next amendment is 160. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u262	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I also want to warn these 270 so-called deputies, who today are against the national interests of Ukraine, by handing over land, including foreigners, that their names, and we'll take care of them, will be printed in district, city, district newspapers. We will distribute millions of copies of our postcards so that the people in our faces know their heroes -- everyone who voted in favour of depriving Ukraine of freedom, the right to manage their land, their agrarian products, their lives, in fact, the lives of their children and all their offspring. We want people to know the names of these sellers, and we want them to answer both to their voters and to their Ukrainian history. Sooner or later this president, who started this mess, will be responsible, I have no doubt. And don't back up the paperwork.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u263	Dear colleagues, I am voting for 160 amendments to the National MP of Solski. The committee has taken this amendment into account, so please support and vote. [[14:00:42]] For 272 Decision taken. The next amendment is 210. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u264	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd like you to know that this amendment that we're talking about right now, it predicts that the guaranteed contribution that auction participants make if they don't win this auction, 30 percent of the start price will not come back to them. It's another big grab of Ukrainian peasants. If they lose these auctions and they're definitely losing, they're going to take 30 percent of them away completely without a return. This is the guaranteed contribution they made from the start price. I want to ask. Where will this contribution go? Who robs Ukrainian agrarians like that? If subsidies are issued worldwide, subsidies to agrarians, aids, and extended loans are granted to farmers for 20 years for the purchase of land, there are 30 percent of subscription payments and withdrawals if a person loses an auction. Shame on you? Don't support this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u265	I'm betting on the 210th amendment of the people's representative of Solski. The committee counted it, so please support and vote. [[14:02:17]] For 267 Decision taken. Next amendment to 231. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u266	231 revisions, it goes on, in fact, all of the orders that will be in electronic auctions that will not be controlled by Ukraine, because there is no reference in this law to who will organize these electronic auctions, who will be in charge of this, who will be in charge of the rules, who will be in charge of the summation. All of this is given to the government, and the government is doing all the President's work today, and all of these decisions are ordered by the agrarian oligarchy and the global world and Ukraine. This means that 231 revisions, like everyone else, generally deprive the person who lives and works on the ground today, even the chance to win these auctions, because the rules will be written simply by apherists and manipulators, and the rules are not for Ukrainian peasants. Do not uphold this law and vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u267	I'll bet you 231 votes, Timoshenko. The committee was supported. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. Timishenko's putting her on the stand. [[14:03:50]] For 265 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 297 law, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u268	297 law. It refers to the legal level of setting up important components of the auction. So those crops that are going to participate in the auction, they won't even know the conditions until the end, or how they're going to win these auctions, or what they're going to do, because most of the rules are going to be set at the legal level. It was deliberately introduced, deliberately created, because it would be unfair auctions, and even honest villagers would lose because they don't have money. And these auctions are going to be run by shulers, they're going to be run by those who are just through auctions, they're going to be taken into agrarians, they're going to be taken to Ukrainian farmers. That's what's going to happen. And that's why everything you're voting for right now is going to show life how it's going to kill Ukraine. Therefore, do not vote for all who have a conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u269	297 revisions, supported by the committee, counted. bets on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:05:24]] For 271 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 309 correct. Timishenko insists on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u270	I think the people who are watching this session know very well that if there's more than 226, and now it's almost 270 votes, it's saying that they've already divided this land in the quays, and that the President, who's an ideologist for the sale of agricultural land, has already done everything in this Parliament to have an obedient flock sittin' on these green buttons for things that contradict the national interests of Ukraine. And that's why I want May 22nd, where agrarians, scientists, citizens, public organizations, and including the Motherland to just show this herd that people against people don't want them to do what they're doing here. The foundations of parliamentaryism have been violated because this room makes decisions that directly conflict with the will and interests of the people. Do not uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u271	309 revisions, the committee supported, I'm putting it on confirmation. Please support and vote. Even colleagues applaud, I see. I see what you're up to. Thank you. [[14:07:00]] For 270. Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 384 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u272	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. We are essentially making the last effort, our team, in this irresponsible, irresponsible, non-professional parliament, we are making the last effort to correct at least the most dangerous elements of this law. Elements that erase essentially from the winners of auctions for the sale of land to Ukrainian peasants, agrarians, and farmers. We're trying to do something else. But for you to see that no one needs anything in this room, no one is studying or reading in these laws, no one is studying the world practice that has been with these countries that have voted in this way. We recently had a high-level delegation from Lithuania, including one of the ministers of agrarian politics, he said, don't make that mistake, you'll essentially finish your agriculture. But unfortunately, everything is being done against Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u273	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Amendment 384. The committee counted it. So please support and vote. [[14:08:43]] For 270. Decision taken. Next amendment 395. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u274	Now I want to address the Head of the Supreme Council. You know that our team respects you, but you respect parliamentaryism. I want to ask. Why, when you put it to a vote, for those who are absolutely already "barned" and don't know what button to push, you say the will phrases. You say that if you vote, you say "support," and if you don't vote, you say the word "determinate." I want to ask why you're doing this. Why are you humiliating Parliamentarianism and why are you putting the deputies into this "herd" that doesn't understand what he's voting for and they need special signs. I want to address the Head of the Supreme Council: no longer use these word signs as a way to vote. We already had Mr. Chechetov, the bright memory of him who waved his hands and feet. Well, you can't talk about people who are out of their lives, bad. But you are a young generation, do not become those who give signals, how to vote without reason and without conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u275	Dear colleagues, 395 amendments, are counted by the committee. That's why she's looking at confirmation right now. Please vote and vote. [[14:10:25]] For 269 Decision taken. Next amendment to 405. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u276	Now I want to address the First Vice-Speaker of the Supreme Council with great respect. I ask you not to accept, please, the practice that the Head of the Supreme Council demonstrates, and do not give word signs how to vote. Everyone in Parliament knows that if you say "support," that means voting, and if you say "determinate," that means not voting. Tell me, please, is there not an ounce of intelligence here? What, people don't really understand what they're voting at, and what they're doing? Why give such signs at all? Now the ground is voting, and that means that two people in the room are informed, the head of the Supreme Council and the vice-speaker of Parliament, how to vote, and everyone else is watching the words sound, and you know how the dog of Paul "light is saliva." It's not like that! It's Parliament, you have to think. Think about it, analyze what you're voting for.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote 405 amendments to the national MP of Solski. It's counted by the committee. That's why I'm asking you to vote. Vote. [[14:12:07]] For 271 It's not working, you see. Next amendment 427. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u278	I think the "light is saliva" procedure is getting a little complicated. We need to pay a little more attention to what the Head of the Supreme Council says or vice-speaker says, because, well, more complex wording and more difficult analysis is needed. Well, I want to tell you that it's a straight line, there's no zigzag there, and so with any words or hands, or with your feet, let's give you signs, because the essence of the laws in this room doesn't matter, unfortunately. And it's a shame that the Parliament, which the country relied on, is the President, who was relying on by the country, who was waving its programs, where the word "national government" is written in capital letters, today it's all trampled, smeared, humiliated. And instead of the people, the key words: "vote" or "do not vote," (this is said directly from the rostrum) "determinate." Dear friends, if you work this way in politics, believe me, history will give you the right grades.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u279	The 427 committee was supported, counted. So you have to ask for support and a vote. Please vote. Confirmed, confirmed. [[14:13:52]] For 269 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. The next question is 439. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u280	Mr. Head, what do you have to ask? Who forced you to give signals how to vote? Have you ever been pressured or been forced to do so? I think it would be right to just put it to a vote and that's all. Well, everyone in the vote, in principle, understands that what the Fatherland is proposing is just the opposite. Well, there are other laws. I want to advise the Chief of the Supreme Council and the First Vice-Speaker, when you have the following bills or draft decrees put to the vote, just try to put it to a vote without giving the hall a signal, and we'll see what we can do. Can we put up such a big experiment? If you are already pouring such a land insolently and humiliatingly, why not go back to parliamentaryism? It'd be great to see it. I want to see how those who do not hear the key words will find their way.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u281	I'm just looking, sometimes it happens, that the faction that criticises supports this bill and regulation. I'll bet you vote 439. The committee was supported, counted. Well, let's give it a try. Please vote. [[14:15:35]] For 272 For 272, even more. Thank you, dear colleagues, for your advice. Next question, 465 revisions. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u282	You know, Mr. Head, you've had this so much to do with automation that you still said, "Please vote."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u283	Thanks for the compliment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u284	"Please vote" is the signal. I propose next time. [[B in m in s a l in]] I suggest you say "determinate" next time. And let's see what's in the hall. This is gonna be great. [[B in m in s a l in]] My dear friends, I would like to remind you that you are granting the sacred right of the Ukrainian nation to own your agricultural land, and you're handing this right now essentially to the large financial global structures, the large global corporations. And you're depriving the Ukrainians of the future. Yeah, we're gonna fight, our team, the way we can do it. Sadly, though, you have taken advantage of the naive choice of people, and today you have these people as you wish. Don't vote for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u285	I'll bet you 465 votes. The committee is supported, accounted for, and therefore considers confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:17:12]] For 272 Edit is confirmed. Let's move on to the next one. 571 law, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u286	Mr. Head, you're afraid to step away from the protocol, unfortunately. But what are you going to do? You know, I'm just going to try to remind you of that in other bills, in other bills, in draft regulations. Why? Because we don't have the right to use those low methods that replace parliamentaryism with instructions, signals, signs, strokes, drownings and everything else. I think that parliamentaryism in this room has been in a number of first summonses, and then, unfortunately, it's all turned into a coincidence. And today nothing has changed. I want to address the Ukrainians now. You chose this power, you chose this president. Today you're being treated with experiments that you can't stand. The reform of Suprun continues, tariffs continue to rise, land is taken away, fossils are useful, and air will soon be taken away. I want to ask you, how long are you going to be holding on to all of this, and where is the freedom of the Ukrainians?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u287	Dear colleagues, 571 revisions. The committee, you know, was supported, accounted for. But to prove that there is no neurolinguistic programming in Parliament, please identify and vote. [[14:19:00]] For 269 Decision accepted, correction confirmed. Next item 596. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u288	Yes, dear friends, I would like to remind you that there is such a very, very difficult and terrible experience in Madagascar. You know, in Madagascar, where almost 100 percent of fertile land, as we almost have, has passed the same laws that are now being passed in Ukraine, where without any rules or restrictions on foreign corporations it is possible to sell land. I can tell you that before this happened, and after the people who had practically already entered this messorubka system had taken the land, the food, everything else, from the happy people who lived in Madagascar, they now went out to the leaders of the world -- the sociology led by the United Nations -- into the leaders of countries that are starving. And now they're thinking about how to get their land back. I don't want the same thing to happen to the Ukrainian nation because of the stupidity and sales of that power. Don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u289	I'll bet you 596 votes. The committee is accounted for, supported. Please support and vote. [[14:20:32]] For 267 Decision taken. 625 right, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u290	Mr. Head, you haven't had enough, you're back to the formulation you're used to. We have to get out of here. I'm asking you. I respect you, but this seems very humiliating to Parliament. You can't show it. But with regard to the 625 revisions, it is allowed to recognize such trades that took place in the event of the presence of one participant. It hasn't been like this in a long time. In other words, if they block the registration of anyone who wants to claim this land and leaves one participant, it's no big deal. An auction with a single ticket of 625 is allowed, like a lot of other things, which just looks real to me, just absurd. It is said that brainwashing is more difficult than curvature. Well, I can see that brainwashing is very easy because the curve is not much. And so I ask all those who have conscience, honor and intelligence not to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u291	625 right. Committee supported, accounted for. That's why he's voting. I ask you to vote. [[14:22:02]] For 269 Decision taken. Julia Volodymyrna, I think the next 655 will no longer have questions before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u292	Yeah, 655 revisions, just so you know what this is about. I want to talk to you in just two words about the essence. It is possible to buy land at a starting price of one participant. Dear friends, writing "corruption" is not writing anything. Hey! Where do we have anti-corruption workers? Where do we have public organizations for grants? Where do we have all those who are now stretching this disgrace, this law through Parliament? I just advise people who rely on someone else's opinion, sometimes read laws. I understand that it is not mind, it is not analytics, it is not professionalism, it is treaty and corruption, it is the price of voting, so I ask you very much not to vote in favour of this law and do not confirm this amendment. If you confirm it right now, you're assuming that one auctioneer will buy this land at the start price. What kind of auction is this? Do not deceive yourself. And don't vote for that poverty at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u293	I'm betting on the vote number 655. The committee was counted. So please vote and support. [[14:23:39]] For 265 Decision taken. 719 law. Tymoshenko. For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u294	My dear friends, they're actually running out of confirmation checks, and there's two changes left. You see, even nature didn't last, there's a thunderstorm going on, because what's done in this Supreme Council Hall is already called the Sabbath. Do you understand? It's a feast during the plague. The country in the economic crisis, a country that can't spend any day without a loan, a country that has virtually ended its economy in recent years, there as a result of the Lokdaunes, the Coronavirus and all that has led to stagnation in essentially all households in Ukraine, the land is being sold during the war. I think when our descendants read this story, they're just going to think that Neanderthals are crazy, they're people who don't understand how the world lives, what priorities, what values. And so I ask you not to vote for this amendment and this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u295	I'll bet you 719 votes. The committee is supported. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:25:11]] For 274 Decision taken. Ulya Volodymyrna’s extreme right, Timoshenko, who is in favor of confirmation, 766.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u296	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. What do we rely on to stop this Sabbath from selling agricultural land to foreigners and corrupters? We rely on a few things. First. On June 3, the Constitutional Court’s review of the unconstitutionality of this Law on the Sale of Land begins, in a more faithful manner. I don't know, after the dissolution and destruction of the President of the Constitutional Court, how many people there are left who have the conscience, the honour and the ability to make decisions in favour of Ukraine. The second is 22 May at 12:00 near Kiev, where more than 17,000 people are gathered to begin a referendum on a national initiative against the sale of agricultural land. If this doesn't work, according to the Constitution, we're going to constitutionally raise people and evict a little bit of this power that's broken down and doesn't realize that it's serving people anymore. Glory to Ukraine! We're against selling the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u297	I'll bet you 766 votes. Committee supported, accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:26:43]] For 267 Decision taken. Two adjustments are left: one Ivchenko, one Kabachenko. Then we move on to voting for the law as a whole. Yvchenko, 776 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u298	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this right that I'm looking at to confirm, it's basically the same thing that we talked about in Law 2194. If we're talking about decentralization and if we're talking about that after the adoption of this law, it's the authorities of local self-government that have to decide what to give to individual rural farms that are actually leased through auctions, then we have to stop this amendment. Because this edit says the following. That all the orders, all the decisions and orders for the transfer of the relevant land by the authorities before, and in our context this is the Holdgeokadastr, and he didn't do everything for free, you understand why this was done, the authorities of local self-government have to make the right decisions. And these land areas have to follow the procedure that was previously adopted by the appropriate authorities. Colleagues, it's not decentralization in this direction, it's anti-decentralization. And believe me, there will be decisions where the authorities of local self-government doubt that it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u299	Edited. Do you insist on taking full account of her? You're putting her on the stand. So it's edited. You're proposing to reject it. I'm betting on the vote on Ichchenk's proposal. No, the committee's proposal, I'm sorry. We have the committee's decision to take into account editorially. Therefore, it is suggested that we leave the proposal to the committee. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:29:04]] For 272 Decision taken. Edited number 776 remains edited. Next line 236, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u300	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. One of the many corruption schemes that is "stitched" in Bill 2195 is the following. This is a combination of two 236 rights, which we now have to cancel, and 655 rights. What's on line 236? That a lotta can be taken and put on electronic auctions if it's equal to 20 acres, not 5 not 1 hectare, up to 20 acres. First. If someone could explain why 20 hectares, not 1, well, we would count your answer. And 655 revisions that allow one person who has come to an electronic auction to get this 20 - acre [20 ha] start price. This is one of the many corruption schemes that are "stitched" in this bill. Now let's throw out the 236 and that's why it's going to reduce the circle of abuse at 655. Edit 236 please cancel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u301	I'm betting on the vote number 236. The committee was supported and counted. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:30:34]] For 274 Decision taken. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts on the sale or rights of land of public and municipal property (rents, superficie, emfitevsis) through electronic auctions (registration number 2195). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:31:28]] For 272 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show by factions. "People's Servant" – 230, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "Party for the Future" – 6, "Voice" – 14, "Trust" – 18, "non-factional" – 4. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Order on Change in the Order of the Day of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration number 4690-12). I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire draft Decree (register number 4690-12). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:32:23]] For 274 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft regulations repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the development of the Institute of Ageing. Here are many of the authors of these decrees, now the language follows the standard procedure that has been applied: first all the authors speak, then the committee report, then two in favour, two in contrast, the discussion of the reduced procedure, then the vote. Each decision shall be voted out separately. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko, Ulya Volodymyrna, is invited to attend. We've asked the question, it can't be here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u302	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. The issue that we are considering is very closely related to the sale of agricultural land. You realize, in fact, that all of our fertile lands that can be cultivated, we grow crops that are concentrated in villages. And that's why local self-governance for villages is a very important element of the self-governance of the Ukrainian nation at all. You know, until today, in principle, the villages had the right to choose their own stores, to pick their own heads and all of this was done openly, democratically through elections. Now that law, which is voted down and which we demand to cancel, returns the order that existed during the fascist occupation of Ukraine. That is, the appointment of an old age in the villages, not taking into account the thinking of the people from above. I want to ask what the village has done to this Parliament, to the new president, that they can choose their council in the city, their mayor, their head of the land, and what has the village done about it, that old age, like World War II, will be appointed from the top, not agreeing with the village? This means that it is an integral part of the dehumanization of people, peasants, agrarians, because the mayor will follow instructions from above without regard to the will of the rural community. And so our team thinks it's fascism, it's against local self-government. And we demand that this law be repealed, that we do not abuse the peasants, that we do not humiliate them, that we do not deprive them of their right to be human.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u303	Puzichuk Andri Viktorovich. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u304	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The bill on local self-government in general is a very progressive system of European ideas and charters of local self-government. But the institution of old age is written in such a way that it virtually nullifies the whole idea of transferring authority to local self - government. From ancient times, the mayor or the outpost was the most respected, most respected man in the village, in the hamlet or in the town. It was the person who was respected who had the right to vote and who was clearly chosen for the evening, in general congregations near the church in the church courtyard. What bill was approved in this sessional room? What an elder is appointed by a leader of a united territorial community. Under this law, there will be a large number of villages that will have no old age at all, and the mayor will be at several locations. What, then, is the idea of representing one territory or another? This is either the first or the first step on the road to destroying the idea of local self - government itself, when old age is not a member of the executive body, not having the right to vote, all will be decided in the office of the head of a united territorial community. God forbid, if the community is lucky that this head is a man of balance, authority. If so, who will represent the congregation? It's an unacceptable bill. Please support my determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u305	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u306	Dear Ukrainians, the feeling that the Servant of the People is never in their districts, otherwise they would know exactly that the people are against you to undermine the reform of decentralization and take the legal right of citizens to choose old age. Why is it that today the "servants" really take away the right of peasants to choose an old age? This is directly related to land laws, when it actually starts the same way in land reform to abuse these decisions and appointed the mayor, determined by a hundred percent of his Banking, you know, will decide on the issue of land privatization for "serves" and not for the people. The second problem of this law seems to be where the institution of old age, and where the Constitutional Court. But when the "servants" want to do so, they've bound the same rule in this law on the destruction of the independence of the Constitutional Court. You know, as the people say, "where it is and where the flood is," but the "servants" have combined it in order for the Constitutional Court to pass its one-faction and cancel the rule that candidates for the post of judges of the Constitutional Court should lay down their mandates. In fact, we are definitely against the destruction of decentralization reform, we are definitely against the destruction of the independence of the Constitutional Court that you are implementing. And in fact, my friends, we are addressing every Ukrainian village today. Ask for a meeting with the "ministers" whom you chose because you were deceived in 2019, and let them report to you what right they have to take away from you the direct right of vote, which they have the right to impose by law a rule that the mayor will be appointed, not to choose the village. The old man is supposed to serve the village, not the village, sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u307	The next author of the decree is Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u308	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! The adoption of Bill 4535, let's face it, has been a blow to local self-government, and under the "reform" sauce has put old age's destruction at risk. In fact, old age is going to impose upon citizens rather than exercise their right to self - rule. But it's not the only bomb that was put into law by the majority. Amendments to the Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine have been added to the text of the bill between the first and the second readings, thus severely violating the Rules. First, the issue of the CSO does not concern the issue of the legal regulation of the institution of old age and therefore could not be incorporated into this law. And that could not have been between the first and the second readings, for this question was not the subject of the first reading of this law. And now, dear colleagues, there may be a rather serious precedent for violating the Rules for the sake of authority, let's be frank, not the first in this room that is now being organized by a majority. And if this happens again, it will be another example of the discrediting of the Ukrainian Parliament by the majority of Mr. Zelensky. That's why I'm asking you to support this ruling, to send this bill, I mean the main one, to re-read it and make it so that there's no violation of the Rules in this law. Because today, you know, if these decisions aren't supported today and this bill becomes valid, just figure out who's listening, who's not listening, you're going to say black and white and you're going to say black. To make sure you understand that the grounds for cancelling are more than enough. So please support any of these regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u309	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Don't insist. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich. Is it Vlasenko? Vlasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u310	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! I'd like to support all the previous colleagues, and Julia Timoshenko, and Michael Zimbaluka, that this law completely undermines the basic principles of local self-government in part of the appointment of old age. But it's not just this law that's scary. In fact, in this law at night, the day before hearing, there was an article in which an honourable or disrespectful lady, out of large measure, wanted to be pushed into the Constitutional Court. How is this position formed today? A candidate in a constitutional judge's office a day before the vote should be given a mandate. But a person is afraid that he will be fooled, that he will have no votes, and he wants to sit, sorry, with a fifth point on two chairs -- and remain a deputy and run to the Constitutional Court, and have all the guarantees both here and there, and there and seven. This, you know, please tell me, how does this differ from the Attorney General's Bill, which was adopted by the previous Parliament? Absolutely nothing. These are the same double standards. These actions are quite contrary to the conclusions of the Venice Commission, which clearly wrote that a member of the current chamber cannot be a candidate in the Constitutional Court, because this politicizes the work of the Constitutional Court. It can't be, it was written by the Venice Commission. But it doesn't matter to a majority of MPs. That lady doesn't care, too, because she wants to be a judge. He's very eager. She's a politician, she'll run the general line of the party, but it doesn't matter -- to be assigned. So that nothing would happen so that we could do something about it. In fact, it's a complete destruction of everything. This is the total destruction of parliamentaryism. This is a total disregard for the Rules. This is an absolute inadequacy of article 116 of the Rules, which I stated in accordance with the Rules during the consideration of the matter. And then, please support my determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u311	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u312	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Indeed, on April 15, the Supreme Council adopted a bill on the development of the institution of old age. But as some colleagues have already said, a bill that should apply exclusively to local self-government, and I am about to leave all the novelties of this bill, has been amended, and so has Amendment 138 on amending the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, which obviously has no relation to local self-government. And this is a gross violation of the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You, your honourable colleagues, or disrespectful, have created all the legislative preconditions for your fellow MP to become a judge of the Constitutional Court. And, you know, everyone's already seen on the Internet all the photos about the fact that the time of your greatness now has the greatest legal power, not the law, not the rules, not the procedure. You have not only been violated by article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules because the amendment does not correspond at all to the subject of the legal regulation of this basic bill. And with this amendment, you are ruining one of the fundamental principles of the functioning of the Constitutional Court -- its impartiality. Moreover, this amendment seems to contradict the conclusions of the Venice Commission. You, colleagues, are not only breaking the law, you are violating all moral and ethical principles, you are ruining the principles of institutions, and you are ruining the principles of the state. I ask you to support any of these rulings that cancels the voting for the law. And in fact, go back to looking at it in a normal way, without these shuler desires and amendments that you made under the cover of night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u313	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u314	Well, what can we be surprised about? That's the whole point of the true power of "ministers of the people" is to rape, rape and rape. And from the fact that you have a rapist in your ranks, it turns out to be normal for you and for your authority, but somehow you're meant to systematically rape the Rules, the Constitution, the laws, the state system, because you're no longer capable. In this case, we have that the old-age institution bill provides for the mass of you, the "servants", the rape of the Ukrainian Rules, particularly in article 116 and in article 118. The legislative initiatives relating to the Constitutional Court in this bill were not the subject of a first reading of the bill. The need for such changes was not mentioned in the conclusion of the Main Committee, nor in the conclusion of the GNEU, nor in the chairman of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. The question, if it already applied to the Constitutional Court, was to be the conclusion of the Committee on Legal Policy, but that is not the conclusion either. Besides, I want to rape, break through my arm, and shove my own person into the Constitutional Court. Question: "What will the Constitutional Court be like after such manipulations?" True, your president tried to rape the Constitutional Court on the right and the left, because he didn't make those decisions. So, dear fellows, I urge you, as a minimum, to common sense, to your self-esteem, and to your self-preservation instincts. Vote for any of these regulations, pass this bill on for further work, rework, and finally get back to the law. Otherwise, you're just rapists.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u315	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u316	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I understand that breaking the law is the norm of today's Parliament. What example do we set for Ukrainian citizens when we break the law with you? We have the Law of the Rules, we have article 116. So I have a rhetorical question for all of you: how could we have brought into the Old Age Act questions that do not apply to local self-government? How do lobbying standards appear? This is a direct violation of article 116. The "fatherland" said you didn't respond. And the leadership of the Supreme Council still pushes the appropriate lobbying rules, knowing they're breaking the law. Why, then, all these colleagues, voting on land reform, why all of this when we are already in violation of the relevant Rules and Article 116 of this Law? That's the first one. And the second. Colleagues, decentralization provides for financial opportunities and the possibility of empowering communities. On the contrary, we have taken the authority of small communities to appoint an old age or, let us say, to choose an old age, to be active participants, and to have a veto if the head of the united community appoints a suitable person who will not live in this community to reflect interests. You and I are thus transforming the united territorial communities into JEKE, just into JEKE, where the head of the community, when he is, of course, chosen from the larger community, from the district center, and so on, can ignore small areas where people clearly want them to represent their interests. So please support my decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u317	Please, Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u318	I won't be spending much time. Everyone understands what this is about. Everyone understands what's going on and how it's going to end. But this is the law. Why we made these decisions. You know, it's like a fly to mix with chops. We have an old-age chop as the main constitutionalist of this room, and I call it Mrs. Olga Sougir's last name, so she can take the line. I'd like to hear from her or she's not ashamed of her way into the Constitutional Court to start with such a violation, no, no violation, spit on the law. What about old age? Well, old age isn't to blame. Please take the line and tell me if you are ashamed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u319	Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u320	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I call upon you from all the inhabitants of Lugansk. As the Electoral Code became effective, the office of the village’s seniority had ceased to be selective, and they were now appointed deputies for the appointment of the head of the OTG. Such actions do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, but the worst thing they can do is take from the villagers the right to choose their own mayor, a person who they think is best aware of the problems of the village and who is able to fight them. The villagers now do not have the right to vote. In October 2020, local elections took place throughout Ukraine, but in Lugansk, thanks to the illegal actions of the head of the Hayday military and civilian administration, they were not present in the communities of Severodonetsky and Lisicánsk. He gave a false conclusion to the Central Electoral Commission, referring to what seemed dangerous to hold the elections. According to the falsification of the findings of the People’s Deputy, a statement has been made to the Public Prosecutor’s Office, and criminal proceedings have now been opened, in which the investigation is conducted. Most of you national deputies have been to Lugansk on numerous occasions, in its administrative center of Severodonetsk. Is there a danger? Of course not. Why were Luhanskians able to elect national deputies, the President of Ukraine, and not to choose their own representatives? The only real answer was to put yours in order to steal more. It is now run by military and civilian administrations with appointed leaders who have never lived in these cities and are not native to them. Can they bring about a system of things? Of course not. They're there with one goal: filling their own pockets. These actions of officials simply kill cities. This is another violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. In fact, it is shameful to take away from people their sacred right to choose and be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u321	Thank you. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u322	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, 30 years ago, Ukraine and our present-day lawyer, Poland, were on the path of radical reform almost at the same time. Only our socio-economic neighbour was in a more difficult situation. Three decades have passed — de Poland and where we are. The Polish economy today is the fifth economy in the European Union. And we went to one of the poorest countries in Europe. Where are the sources of European economic and social wonders, friends, including in the countryside? What the Poles did. In the first few years, reforms have created some 2 million family farms, an average of not more than 10 hectares [10 ha]. And these family farms did the first Polish economic miracle in Europe. Today, Poland’s products have overwhelmed Europe, and they have reached Ukraine. A family farm is a farm where a person lives. So when they approached administrative and territorial reform, they brought their municipalities together one to four, and we're one to ten. But before being united, they made all the infrastructure that can only be done for people — roads, medical facilities, educational facilities, preschools, etc., and so forth. Then people were offered either yes or yes. And only then did people vote in favour of such a reform. Their reform was 18 years old. Ours is 18 months: drowning in souls, by fate. Friends, the future of Ukraine. Our neighbor is growing up in Siberia. We can only grow in the village. Growing up or growing up is the question. Friends, what's happening now is the depopulation, it's the destruction of the village. The village elders, including the "watching" or the local self-government? You gave the answer in your law, which we explicitly gave.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u323	Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u324	Dear colleagues, I have two announcements. First. Pursuant to article 60, prime. another inter-faction MP union, "The Development of Ukraine-Katar Relations" has been created. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Kovalova, was elected head of this association. And another announcement. According to the application and in accordance with the third part of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Yatzenk Anton Volodymyrovich into the political party's deputy faction, the All-Ukrainian Union of Fathers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-05-18-m0.u325	Dear colleagues, in order not to spend time on this issue, I close the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think you can vote it tomorrow. Thank you. I remind you that we have an emergency meeting at 4:00.
