ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. I'm reminding you that once the registration is started, you need to hold the sensor button, press the "Z" button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. I understand that we have rain and traffic and a lot of people on the streets. But nevertheless, we need to concentrate and work successfully. So, are the National People's Deputies ready to register? Ready? Please register. [[10:07:51]] There are 132 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Oleg Volodymyrovich Bondarenko and Alexander Stanislavovich Pasaski. [[Applause]] Let's say hello. [[Applause]] During this difficult time, I am especially in good health! And let all your ideas for the benefit of Ukraine come to life. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements to the national deputies with proposals, announcements, and messages. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speech. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Danilov Vitali Bogdanovich, the faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u2	Zimbaluku, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u3	Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u4	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honourable National MPs, Ukrainian citizens, last Sunday, October 31st this year, held elections to the Supreme Council in two districts, and we were present in 197 constituencies. What's there to throw in the eye. First of all, the CBC was changed from the city of Kanov to the city of Złotonosza. In our view, the place was not entirely changed. It seems to be under a master candidate. Next. It's extremely low. This suggests that people do not have confidence in authority, in the institution of the Supreme Council. There are a large number of detected violations in this district when lists were formed on behalf of a successful candidate and, according to observers, funds were distributed. These lists and information are recorded and transferred to the law enforcement authorities. There are more than 20 such facts, and we demand a response from law enforcement. But this is the third period since the end of the vote, and there is no record of such a recorded report in the Single Register of Judicial Investigations, which suggests that law enforcement is in violation of existing legislation. Next. We, as the Supreme Council, have to draw the first conclusions on doppelgangers. And this is also a problem that the legislature has to solve: to prevent the fixing of doppelgangers. I mean, we should keep track of the candidate numbers. Next thing. After all, elections have to be held honestly. Both pre-election agitation and the influence of the highest leadership of the state in support of a candidate, in this case a superior, does not put everyone else at the same level. Because of this, the "Paternity" team requires the law enforcement agencies to respond immediately, and the Supreme Council Committee to make changes in the future so that all the participants in the electoral process will be involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u5	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrni, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u6	Dear friends, today is a real day in Parliament, because today is put to the vote by anti-constitutional procedure, Bill 5600. I won't say for long. I can say that this bill, 5,600, which talks about increasing taxes during the energy crisis and COVID, is about giving tax administration the dragon's extra possibilities to destroy business without any obstacles, and it's done at a time when the whole world is doing a dimensionally different policy. I have in my hands now practically the kind of document that all European countries are struggling with today's crisis. This is a document of the European Commission, a communiqué that says the following: "The EU Energy Tax Directive and the VAT Directive allow Member States to reduce taxes in times of crisis." In addition, "EU member states could reduce tax rates". And I can quote this document endlessly. Today, however, Law 5600 will be suppressed in the face of national interests and crises. Do you know what it's called? It's called: about filling the budget at any cost, just like that in the name, and it stands, that is, for filling in the income part of the budget. This means removing the last of the entrepreneurs' skins to fill the corrupt powerhouse in order to make Big Building 40 percent of the state's economy. And today it will not only choke, but according to a procedure that does not even permit the right to advertise, it does not even allow it to fight against this law. I can show you, this is from business associations, the European Business Association, the American Chamber of Commerce, from most of Ukraine's business associations, from small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, from the agrarians where they write: everyone who press the button, the green one, for 5,600, will virtually destroy the economy of our state. I now urge all MPs who have something left in their heads and hearts, at least a little brain, normal, alive, and hearts, where there is some Ukraine, vote against 5,600 today and think about those who make every penny in the budget today, about entrepreneurs, and about Ukraine. Don't kill her! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u7	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Buzanski Maksim Arkadyovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Daniel Getmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u9	Please, the Gethmans Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u10	The honourable colleague drew attention to the bill that was included today in the daily order of 5,600, which eliminates the tax imbalances and all the corruption equipment contained in the Tax Code in the last 20 years of its existence. A colleague talked about people, and a colleague talked about the skin that we of these people are going to rip apart. Now I want to stop at these people because my colleague knows their names are specific. This is about chicken producers, who in 2020, with 62 billion incomes, paid 17 million in all budgets alone. This is the case with tobacco distributors who pay only half the local excise duty to local budgets, and 3 billion do not receive local excise budgets. It's about black builders who, by building a multi-room building per person, one natural person, by avoiding VAT payments, are implementing these apartments "black" in fact. The state receives almost nothing from them. It's about other things that have been accumulated over 20 years, including the hands of the faction from which the colleague spoke, the corrupt norms of the Tax Code that we are now removing. And so, given that we're removing all this corruption created by the years of the former government, we're providing the budget for 25 billion. The 25 billion who will go to the teachers who will go to the doctors who will go to the pensioners who seem to be so concerned about the opposition but only care for the part where it does not apply to the interests of their sponsors. So I'm asking a colleague, convinced that we all have brains with you, as a colleague said, and most importantly, we have a responsibility to the country, a sense of being the people responsible for the future of the entire country and of all Ukrainians, supporting this bill, supporting this responsible decision and voting with a green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u11	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Pusharenko Arsenija Mihajlovich, faction of the Political Party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u12	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! For days, the monopolisticist Zitomirgaz initiated the issue of population tariff increases. It ruined all of Zitomirsk, destroyed all of the citizens, and people went out to protest. And in fact, all the political forces condemned that decision. But this decision by Zitomirgazu and today's efforts to raise tariffs for the population seems very strange, because in the context of the Memorandum on the Non-extreme Tariffs for the Population, which was initiated by the President and signed by many, most of the heads of the communities, the mayors at the Council of Regional Councils, looks like a provocation today by a monopolist. Why so? And that's because at the time of the formation of the oligarhat in our country, the oligarchs were distributed: someone's favorite football club to finance, someone's party to finance, and so on and so forth. That's the principle that all of us today have zitomirgas in the hands of the oligarchs. And these are today monopolies who are trying to destabilize the situation, even though there is an understanding today between central government and local self-government, and all the efforts have been made, and all the calculations have been made, and the resources found today in the state are found so that there will be no rise in tariffs for the population. Nevertheless, they are today, these monopolies, trying to make this decision, trying to destabilize the situation, to inflame people. When we, the Servant of the People today, fulfill our promise and start dismantling the oligarchy system, we get resistance in this room on all channels. Why? Because the oligarchs own all nine calls in this room because they own all the channels. And when we talk today about the law that you and I, colleagues, have adopted, in keeping with our promise concerning the dismantling of the oligarchic system, it is he who is called upon to ensure that monopolies like Zitomirgaz and their beneficiaries, who are sitting abroad today, do not destabilise the situation and try to raise tariffs for our citizens today. So now I want to assure every Ukrainian that there will be no rise in population tariffs. The government controls the situation, and today we will not allow the Sabbath of individual monopolies and oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u13	The word is Rudik Kiri Alexandrovni, faction of the political party "The Voice". Kostenko Roman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u14	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, a respected Ukrainian people! Before we begin, allow me, on my behalf, from the entire Parliament, to welcome today our military personnel with the Day of Missiles and Artillery, as well as the engineering forces. This is a very important festival and an important component of our army. And, you know, I know what artillery is, first of all, because there are different situations, and I'll tell you that if you look at the prism of this war, this war is exactly what rocket armies and artillery did in their majority. That's why it's a holiday! Happy birthday! And thanks for being here, thanks for being here. But my next topic is to make an important decision today: a decision to change the removal of the Ukrainian defence minister. The committee has already taken this decision today, as I think it is correct. The Voice faction has long spoken of the need for the defence minister to change because an inefficient minister during the war is very difficult for our country. The question is what we're talking about right now and the collapse of the state defense order during the war, we're now talking about the non-use of government guarantees of about 16 billion dollars, we're talking about the collapse of strategic planning. And today we need not just to vote for it, but we need to make sure that the Minister comes with a report to Parliament or a committee and tells us about his activities, tells us why we, in a warring country, the Ministry of Defence is one of the most inefficient ministries in the country. We must remember how we appointed this minister. The minister came into the hall, the committee didn't talk to him, the factions didn't talk to him, the national MPs, we just pressed the buttons, because maybe someone from the President's Office. I understand it's the President's quota, but we're a parliamentary-presidential republic, and we have to check as few people as possible, listen to them before they take office. So we have to give an evaluation, a real evaluation of the Ministry's work, the Minister of Defense and all its deputies. Next. Before the appointment today, whatever they say about Mr. Reznikov: "pretty man, good minister," but before he takes up such a responsible position, one must come to the committee, turn to the factions, and tell his vision of the development of our army and our Armed Forces. We have to stop experimenting on national issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u15	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine to Solski Mikola Tarasovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u16	Excuse me, Galina Mikhailuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u17	Please, Mikhailuk Galina Olegovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u18	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The potential of Ukrainian education and science is difficult to overestimate. However, the use of educational and scientific gains in various areas, particularly in the legislature, certainly requires support from the State. Creating the right conditions and giving young scientists additional opportunities for scientific research and technological development is an important task. Equally important are the awards and scholarships of young educators and participants in external independent evaluation. In view of this, there has been a lengthy discussion about the increase in the mark of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the field of science and education and their uniform distribution. Today, we have a day-to-day plan for Regulation 6156. I ask you to support this draft decision to provide scientific and pedagogical workers, as well as to provide young people with the necessary support of the state. I'm asking you to support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u19	Thank you. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, faction of the political party "Golos". Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u20	Samantha Bobrowski, Justice Union. You know, yesterday we voted on an absolutely important bill that relates to the electronic certification of a veteran, a participant in combat. And in these days, it literally destroyed the entire veteran community -- a community that knows what a front line is, a line of distinction that knows what a loss is, knows what blood is -- a certificate of a participant in the hostilities of Ruslan Mikhailovich Demchenk. This is the Deputy Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council. He was a consultant to both the President-in-Office and the former and the former. This is one of the people who did, in particular, the preparation of the Kharkiv Treaties and lobbying to keep the Black Sea Russian fleet in Crimea. And he wouldn't have to go far to Crimea, to occupy, and in order for Crimea to finally pass without any effort, he was annexed by the Russian Federation. All right, I have a question. Those who work with veterans, those who work with the Armed Forces, do you know how much time and effort it takes to get to the Minvet Commission to file documents and get this certificate? How much is it, especially for foreigners, who have been fighting here since the 14th year, and they're just about on their knees begging for this commission to take place, and getting a certificate so that they can then get and show a certificate, a temporary residence permit? What's going on? I have a question. If my three statements are already in place, the rulings are registered, but unfortunately not considered by the Security and Defence Committee, which refers to three people who have a direct relationship, who are citizens of the Russian Federation, who have a direct bearing on business in Ukraine. This is especially true: (a) the citizen of the Russian Federation, Hiner Evgen Lennorovich, who owns a defence company that manufactures a technology that later comes to us in Donetsk, Lugansk district. He's a partner of a Russian company that goes into Rostech. Another is Alexander Orlov, a businessman, a Moscow man, who here, in particular, holds clubs where you, honourable deputies, go, and restaurants, coffee starting with "Eshaka", ending with Queen Kyiv. So, let me remind you, he has a party ticket for "The One Russia." And the last is the nuclear institute of NAN Russia, which is still working on Artemsole with the right to use and research nadr Artemsoli. But somehow the PNB does not impose sanctions. Isn't it because we have a huge, big, well-known convincer now, Demchenko? I have a request, Mr. Danielov, to fight against the Moscows and the Russian Federation, please pay attention to your first deputy and place the dots above the "and" and do not underestimate those who are really fighting in the east. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u21	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Gerasim Arthur Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u22	There's only a few hours left in the Czernigov oxygen hospitals for the COVID. The city hospital of Mikolayeva had run out of oxygen. Coronary disease in a critical situation. Odessa's COVID hospital has run out of oxygen, dozens of patients are being evacuated. Mr. Greensky, I'm reading you headlines last week because you seem to be living long ago in a world where hospitals don't have oxygen problems, and the Donbas war is over. If the Zelensky authorities had supported the idea of opposition in the spring, 3,000,839 people would not have been killed by COVID last week. So we collected 155 signatures needed to hold an extraordinary session, where Parliament was not later than Thursday obliged to adopt the oxygen station bill. We also demand that the doctors pay immediately everything you owe them — from wages to billable payments. But it turns out that the Green Sporter is also a cold battery and a lack of light in the dwellings. Just think about these numbers: Coal in storage is five times smaller than it needs to be, and 88 of the TES 55 energy clouds do not work. If we didn't have an emergency flow from Belarus, we'd have a whirlwind shut-off in the villages yesterday at plus eight outside the window. What happens if the first ice cream hits in a week? People will run out of light and heat. The energy issue should be dealt with on an urgent basis by the PNB, but they are very busy selling errors on sanctions lists for hundreds of thousands of dollars and falsifying cases against the leader of the opposition, Peter Prashenko. In such a situation, we need to take care of those who have received subsidies and a tax on electricity. Therefore, "European Solidarity" requires the immediate consideration of Bill 6006 to channel $2.7 billion from the IMF to subsidies, to the thirteenth pension for pensioners, and to finance the fight against the coronavirus. We still demand that 15 billion communities be urgently allocated to compensate for the costs of heating schools, hospitals, and kindergartens provided for in Bill 6218. Separately, we need to provide wet compartments with electric generators in the event of a blowout, otherwise, those who have died from the incompetence of this power will become more. You don't know how to deal with an energy crisis, ask those who know and know. Our team in 2014-2015 not only escaped a collapse in an empty-cash state, without energy resources -- we laid the foundation for energy independence from Russia, what you have systematically destroyed since the 19th. So don't be surprised that in just two years, Zelensky turned into a top-notch anti-rating policy, because Zelensky turned out not to be a Holocaust, but a professional liar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u23	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Network Alexander Alexandrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u24	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I would like to draw attention to the fate of international treaties and international law. I would like to remind you that today there are many issues of ratification, denunciation, of international treaties. We give a lot of attention to the legislative process, to the bills, but sometimes we forget to pay proper attention to international agreements. I want to remind you that it's a very important source not only of law, well, in some sense of national law, which can sometimes take precedence over national legislation. So I urge you to pay more attention to this important legal tool. And I would also like to ask you to support International Law. This has been the case with us in the last decade, it has formed its own very self-sufficient and original school of international law, which now requires appropriate support. I mean, colleagues, I'm asking you to support both international agreements and international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u25	The word is given to the national deputy Volinka Mikhail Yakovic. Timishenko Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u26	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Just after my statement on Bill 5,600 on raising taxes for the whole business and increasing the tax authority of one of my colleagues, the head of one of the Supreme Council committees, you all know his name. And, you know, I've tried to give you all and the country from this rostrum to hang such a long noodle that Law 5600 is the law to fight corruption. My dear friends, you and your corruption must cope. Your corruption has overwhelmed the country so that the key Western newspapers are already writing about it. And what's more, I'm even going to quote you one of the Western newspapers in the language that's written in the translation: "The Ukrainian authorities have turned the notion into their political style. The substitution of concepts has become a normal policy. The fight against corruption was replaced by a war against business. A fair tax approach has replaced dragon taxes." It's about you, dear friends. And I want to tell you who this colleague of mine is accusing of corruption. He accuses the European Business Association of corruption, or perhaps the American Chamber of Commerce, or perhaps the Association of Ukrainian Entrepreneurs? No, he just washes his skin, I'm sorry, on this stand and he explains that it's a fight against corruption, while the failed economy is completely and when they're "dragon's" taxes and taxes, they just push money into the budget to continue writing it down to "Big Building." I want to tell the whole country what's really in this law right now. If you want to take taxes from large corporations, take them instead of taking bribes. You have all the legislation today to take legal taxes from any enterprise. And in this law they provide for the introduction of a second tax on land for the owners of pies. And they're going to tax our pie owners, our agrarians from their land, and they're going to force them to sell, because they're not going to pay them. They also take 5 percent of the excise tax that is in our local budgets today, they take it to the center, because they lack the need to rob a country, and they lack something to take the brothers away from. And that's why I want to tell you that Law 5600 is a law against Ukraine, against its national interests, which is losing the economy, which is finally closing the path to agriculture, and which makes the tax a terrorist body.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u27	The word is Eutuska, but he's handing over Klimpush-Cincadze to Ivanni Orestovni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the situation in the Zacarpathian region in Parliament. Recently, from this rostrum, the minister of health asked my direct question, Mr. Lazko, that he did not fully support the initiative of district authorities to unite 16 medical facilities into one. And this, in my opinion, is a complete exercise of local authority. But in spite of common sense, and even in spite of the decision of the medical commission that we were able to reach at the level of the area, we have moved the decision to the session. In addition, at the level of the area, the authorities placed their eyes on out - of - school facilities, on libraries. And it's obvious that we're all with you here that it's about land, about other property, about a room that's very itchy for the viewers of the area. But here on their way, on October 28, there was a community, including veterans. And part of the district council met, representing the majority of the district council representing the citizens of the district, gathered together and released the head of the district council of Mr. Petrov for his insolence and contempt of the interests of the Carpathians. And what do we see? Instead of giving back and being rebaptized from a decision that is disrupting the land, Peter pretends that nothing has happened, and contrary to the law through the administrative resource, he involves law enforcement authorities to cling to his chair. And even some of these halls came up with the idea of accusing the Carpathians of separatism and comparing their actions at the district council on October 28 with the Kremlin scenario of the 14th year. The genre crisis is already such that some of these halls have accused Ukrainians of separatism in Zakarpat, and accused them and the veterans of the Ukrainian-Russian war. Colleagues, you have to apologize to those veterans who are respected and appreciated at Zakarpatta, to medical and educational people who also went to the district council on October 28. And please don't confuse yourself with the state, but with separatism at once. Because with such pseudo-criminals soon called non-Separatists, there will be only a yard on Bank and Velour. Underlining, the decision of the Zacarpathian District Council is legal. This is the will of the Carpathians, represented by most councils. As you continue to ignore the reality, as authorities, you show disrespect not only for local self - control but primarily for people whom you consider to be foolish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. The list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making is given to you today. Then let us move on to their consideration. Your attention is on the proposal for a draft Order to make changes to the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Do you need to talk about it? Okay. Let's then, here's the assumption, a possible discussion on a reduced procedure. Then I ask my colleagues to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kovalchuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u30	Please pass on the word to Kostuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u31	Please, National Deputy Kostuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u32	Please, Costume Anatoly. It's not Costume. It's Costume.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u33	Colleagues, we all have to do a little more work, so we need to do this. We've lost time to consider, I wouldn't call them stupid rights, but the rights that are doomed. Why? Because they're populist, they were not about how and where to find money in the budget, not about how to increase real incomes, how to increase real wages, real pensions, how to just talk to a camera. So we need to work on improving. So we spent a lot of time on almost empty conversations. Now we need to increase our work, we need to support this decision and work much more for the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u34	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u35	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u36	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u37	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! "European Solidarity" will not support this decision. I'll just explain why. What are the key problems in the state today? And the key problem is that we have a wall with a coronavirus epidemic, and the authorities can't handle it. Besides, we don't just have a critical, but a super-critical situation in energy, I emphasize again, yesterday Ukraine stood on the threshold of the fissures in the villages, and at plus eight people could have run out of electricity and no heat. But did the government include Bill 6006 "European Solidarity", which clearly says that the funds donated to the IMF should be given to people, pensioners, to fight COVID for subsidies? No, I didn't. Has the government included in this bill "European Solidarity" 6218, whereby money, instead of "great theft", will be used to compensate communities, to compensate areas, towns, hospitals, kindergartens, schools? No, I didn't. Because, you know, you can talk a lot on talk show on TV like you love people, but real action shows your real attitude towards Ukrainians, and that attitude is negative. That is why, once again, we will not support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u38	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Burmić Anatoly Petrovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u40	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u41	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, look, first of all, 24 draft laws that are added to this order. Zero from the opposition platform for life. Why is the proportional principle that you and I keep talking about, according to the number of deputies from the general constituency? That's the first one. The other one. This is the MP from the party of power speaking up, and he's confused, because he's not looking at content, like determination, because it's not an important decision, it's the point. For example, what urgent, pressing issue does the Law on Official Statistics have, say? Here, the Law on Official Statistics, how does it address the issue of debt on wages, coal issues and other issues? So when we talk to you, at least sometimes you look at the content, just like the budget. In the budget, if an amendment increases funding at the Cancer Institute, it's not a priority, well, I'm sorry, then I understand why 71 percent of Ukrainian citizens, according to the Commission, were published yesterday, which shows that the country is moving in the wrong direction. So from this point of view, in my view, the priorities and the legislative initiatives that should be included in the draft decision, they have a number of issues to settle. The first is the internal economic situation, the support of the real economy, the compensation for the local budgets of those issues that relate to energy efficiency gains, what we talked about, the increase in minimum fixed income. Because in the draft budget, inflation is planned to be higher than the increase in the minimum wage, the minimum wage, and the minimum wage. These are the internal economic preconditions that should be reflected in these documents, which would be the main and basis for the implementation of further budgetary policy, what we talked about. Well, there's not, in this bill, what colleagues have already said: about oxygen, about resistance to CVID-19, about an economic pillow to overcome the pandemic, and so on, and so on and so forth. It is therefore necessary to vote against such a draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u42	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, you just remembered me, let me, you know, as they say: Plato is a friend, but the truth is more precious. The first bill is an alternative, according to the author of Natalia Jurijovna Královska, it is included, so I'm sorry. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u43	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear friends, we have carefully analyzed the 24 proposals that stand for urgent inclusion in the agenda. You know, when a fellow member of the majority faction is surprised that it turns out that opposition and, by the way, it doesn't breathe opposition, but the faction itself of the majority, it makes adjustments to the Budget Act, don't be surprised. Because no one can imagine how the country will enter 2022 with such a budget. And now, essentially. But are these the key challenges that these 24 bills solve? Please tell me, where is the gas market bill that regulates the immediate inability to shut down consumers, including whole cities, from the consumption of gas by debt created artificially in previous years? Where is the bill that envisions the electricity market? Where is the clear order that governs these issues through public and private energy companies? Show me where the bill that primarily provides for the supply of gas to the population and the utility sector is. There are no such bills. I mean, it feels like there's no energy crisis in the country. You're here scaring us with the future of the veils. But really, Kiev has never been shut down. Drive 20 miles [20 km] from Kiev and see what is happening in the villages. So our faction will not vote for these changes until we have our bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u44	Thank you. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko. Then Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, we've all signed up for the next session on the oxygen station bill that we're going to be considering tomorrow at the next session, even though this bill may have been in the list that we're voting on today. We also have a claim about how this list is formed, but we cannot vote in favour of it, since we see some of our bills, particularly those relating to mandatory state pension insurance for the clarification of the pension order, and a bill on proper diagnosis for the treatment of patients with Parkinson's disease by our late colleague Polakov, and a number of other bills, I have a request to the Hall to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. After that, Klimenko Julia. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u47	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, it is a good thing that we are complementing today other bills that should work in Parliament. On more than one occasion, I demanded that two bills be put in place to solve the problem of economic crisis and crisis today in a society that has arisen as a result of the fact that people can't pay for crazy tariffs. The first bill of 2070, which will allow for the development of the free economic zone of Donbas. The second 6064, which now forbids the authorities from turning people off from lighting, lighting, water, and energy. Please tell me, if people had money, would they pay? Of course, we were paid, yes, we were taught to pay our debts. When people have nothing to eat, what will we do when people die in the streets? To include two bills immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Klimenko Julia, the Voice faction. And then we vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to all that has been said here, that there are absolutely no answers to the challenges facing our country in this order of day. First of all, people’s lives, health care. The second is national security. The third is the energy and economic crisis. There's no bill in this agenda, this agenda is called "pushing holes," and there's no question that we're running out of gas transit and we're losing 75 billion dollars a year for 2022-2023. Fellows, we will not support this until there is a serious package of economic initiatives that allow the country to emerge from the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, we have completed a brief discussion procedure, please take your seats. And I am voting on the proposal to accept the entire draft Order on Change in the Order of the Day of the Sixth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, take your seats. Please vote. [[10:53:20]] For-183 The decision is not taken. There's a statement from two. Let's see the factions. A statement from two factions: a break with a replacement for the performance. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u51	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, we're not doctors, we're not epidemiologists, we're not infected. But we don't need to be them, we need to hear professionals and scientists who can't reach us today. Vaccination is prevention, it will help in the future, not now. And now we've got to make a bet on the hospitals and the medics. I'm saying this from the face of the doctors who came to us. Financing infectious hospitals at zero, and this is our last resort against the pandemic. It's like forcing your own army to starve during a strategic battle. Low-level issues that need immediate solutions now. There is nowhere to treat, in most areas the bed is finished, or the bed is finished. Mobile hospitals throughout the country need to be opened immediately. All the sanatoriums and facilities that are closed as a result of this reform can be used. There's no one to treat. Doctors work 24-by-7, cash wages. If Poland is one and a half thousand euros, we have 6,000 dollars, up to 12,000 dollars. In the Mikolai region of Svetlana Fedorov, the hospital’s chief infective officer gave her a May bonus to doctors, so she was now court-martialed. We demand immediate funding from the hedge fund that was allocated in this room, 65 billion dollars, and also a report from the minister from this rostrum, where the money was distributed. There's nothing to treat. The crisis with medical oxygen is just the first tray. We need to allow the use of technical oxygen immediately, because it differs from a single piece of paper — a license. There's Nitrogen, And allow people to be treated today. 70 percent of hospitals today are not equipped with oxygen that people need. Next. The primary treatments do not have any tests or medications. The person calls with the symptoms of COVID, and in a better case, he is assigned some pills or vitamins. They're not sent to the test because the MOH is going to save. People die without waiting for their diagnosis today. Dear colleagues, I have to say that there are no experts in the IOM who can respond adequately to the challenges of the pandemic. I'm judging by the results and what's going on in society, what's the biggest mistrust in the M.O.S. I would like you to immediately create headquarters from an extraordinary epidemiological situation where real Virus Doctors, epidemiologists, infectives who are not currently in the MlH. The solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u52	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues. The next day is the draft Order amending some of the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reward the marks of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the field of education and science (project registration number 6156). I invite the head of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation, Koluch Valeri Viktorovich. Please. Please. Short-term procedure, would you like to set it up? Please. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. I remind you that we need 150 votes to make a decision. Please identify and vote. [[10:57:59]] For-94 The decision is not taken. I invite the rapporteur, the head of the committee's subcommittee on education, science and innovation, Koluch Valeri Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a draft regulation amending certain regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the award of marks by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the field of education and science (registration No. 6156). I would like to point out that the project proposes to clarify the relevant provisions on the marks of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the field of education and science, to increase the number of marks themselves, to participate in the competition for the prizes and scholarships of young scientists in the field of national security and defence, and in other areas related to such research. In addition, the draft decree proposes that the potential of young doctors of science to carry out their legal activities be used more widely. The purpose of the draft decision is to increase the role of the Supreme Council in the field of education and science and the wider support of representatives of these sectors, namely: young scientists (prime and scholarships), teaching staff in pre-school, general secondary, vocational (professional) and extra-school education, and the best participants in the external independent evaluation of the results of education obtained on the basis of full general secondary education. The project is intended to provide State support to more scientific and educational workers who are gifted to young people, who will encourage them to learn and work productively in Ukraine. In particular, there is an increase in the number of annual prizes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for teachers of general education, vocational and technical, pre-school and extra-school institutions from 30 as of today to 54. At this district, the Kyiv City and Sevastopol City Councils, as well as the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, are given the opportunity to submit to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for education, science and innovation, the subject of which concerns education and science, the issue of sentencing of two rather than one, as provided for in the decree, of corresponding bonuses. Secondly, the increase in the number of awards of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to young scientists from 30, as today, to 50. Next. The increase in the number of named scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for young scientists, doctors of science from 30, as is now provided by regulations, to 50, as well as the increase in the number of prizes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the best participants in the external independent evaluation of the results of education obtained on the basis of full general secondary education from 30 to 50 persons. The draft decrees also clarify the relevant provisions on the Supreme Council’s marks in the field of education and science, participate in the award competition and scholarships of young scientists in the field of national security and defence, and in other areas related to research that contain classified information, as well as the increased use of the potential of young doctors of science to carry out their legal activities. I would like to point out that the draft decree is unanimously supported by all members of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation. All the members of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation acted as sponsors of this decree without exception. And the committee at its meeting, in accordance with part ninety-sixth, part three of article 138 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules of Procedure, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending certain decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the award of marks by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the field of education and science (registration number 6156) proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine include it in the agenda of the Supreme Council and the outcome of the consideration of the draft decision to accept it as a whole. Dear colleagues, we have a large cost savings every year for the maintenance of the Supreme Council's apparatus. Implementation of this regulation will not require changes to the state budget. On account of the economics of the funds that are not being paid, including for our walks, and on account of this year's large cost economy, let's redirect and support our scientists, our children, who become graduates of higher education institutions and have high results of external independent evaluation. So please pay attention to this draft decision and support it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u54	Thank you. Please continue to have scheduled questions and answers for three minutes. Please remain with the reporter. Please stay put. You'll be asked questions now. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bogdanac Andrija Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Julia Grishni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u56	Julia Grishin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u57	Mr. Valeria, thank you for this initiative, it is very important. Indeed, all of us, representatives of all factions and the Committee of Education, Science and Innovation, supported this decision, and we all worked together to develop it. I would like to ask you once again to focus on what categories of directly educated people, our children will receive payment directly from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that all people will hear, for whom this decree is specifically designed, and who receives what bonuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u58	Thank you. I'll report to you on your precise question. This is about increasing the number of annual prizes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to teachers of general education, vocational engineering, preschool and extra-school institutions. To date, this figure is 30. We want to increase to 54, two candidates from each region of Ukraine. And it's also about increasing the number of prizes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to young scientists. Today, there are 30 persons in the decree, and we want to increase to 50 each year. In addition, the decree provides for an increase in the number of named scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for young scientists, doctors of sciences from 30 to 50, and an increase, I stress, in the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the best participants in the external independent evaluation of the results of education based on full general secondary education from 30 persons, as now provided for by the decree, to 50. So that's actually this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u59	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Mikhailuk Galini Olegovni, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u60	Indeed, creating the right conditions to provide additional opportunities for scientists to carry out their work is an extremely important issue. I have two short questions for you. First. You're saying that you're planning on using more of the research of young doctors of science. What do you mean, how do you want to involve young doctors of science? And the second question. The project also discusses the involvement of the BSC in the selection of competitive works that contain a secret, secret information. Can you please point out how you plan to involve the BSC in the selection of these special scientific papers, and how will the PIC, along with the BSC, also be able to select the best jobs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u61	Thank you for asking. On the first question, I will say that the participation of scientists in the legislative work is quite often used by the professional committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And by awarding these scientists, we will once again allow them to be involved in the work. And I think a lot of committees are using the services of different experts, scientists. And if they take part in drafting a bill or a bill, then honor them and praise them. And we're also ready to award them, and their dissertation work, their monographs tested in the legislative field. That's the first question. The second question. Indeed, we are expanding the list of scientists who are eligible for prizes and scholarships. This is about research related to questions that contain a secret. Not all members of the Committee on Education and Science have access to the griffin of secrecy. So I think that's what we need to do before this process.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u62	Thank you. Valery Viktorovich, thank you. You will now have the opportunity to answer on behalf of the committee. I take it you've already reached a general conclusion on the committee's decision. But if you don't mind, because this is a complete procedure, I'm giving you some time to make a decision on the committee. Then there will be questions to you as to how the committee will be represented. Please, this is your report. The report of the Main Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u63	Thank you, Mr. Head. Since I represent not only the group of authors of this draft regulation but also represent the position of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation, I would like to reiterate that at the committee meeting we have unanimously supported the draft decision and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the decision be taken as a whole by a draft regulation amending certain decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the award of marks by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the field of education and science (registration No. 6156). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u64	Thank you, Valery Viktorovich. Please sign up for a question to Valery Viktorovich, but as a representative of the committee, please. The word is given to Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrni, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's a question, please. Sobolev, please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u65	Dear colleague! Sobolje, Fatherland. Tell me, aren't you ashamed now of the question that you can solve in a minute and give talented students the opportunity to get scholarships, to look at their hour in conditions of coronary crisis, in conditions of energy crisis, in conditions of total economic collapse? You didn't split the seats? Why are you taking time and making a mockery of the country? You look at this session hall. The previous question of the majority faction, which numbered 250, gave 169 votes. You'll think about what you're doing under these conditions? Don't you feel ashamed to take your time? Do you think you'll still make fools of people? How can you use an hour of time, such a precious one, instead of considering the most important issues, to consider the matter that is being resolved in a minute, and the hall would vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u66	Mr. Sobolev, we are not ashamed to support young scientists, we are not ashamed to support the graduates of schools, the graduates who make up, the results of an external independent evaluation at the highest level, we are not ashamed to support teachers or anything like that. That is why we have given this decision quite a lot of attention on the committee, and the hall needs to be discussed in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u67	The word is given to National Deputy Kostenko Romano Vasilovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] So he turned to you, that's a form of addressing. Dear colleagues, he has not offended you, he has addressed you. Dear colleagues, Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u68	Roman Costenko, the Voice faction. Pass Inni Sussoon, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u69	Please, Inna Romanovna Sosun.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u70	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear reporter, thank you for your introduction. I am very grateful that the committee is now paying attention to this issue. But at the same time, we need to remember that when we spend money on individual scientists, on individual students, on individuals, we do not solve the systemic problem of education. Unfortunately, we have young scientists today who depend on these bonuses mainly because they all work at 0.5 bets. At 0.5 bets, they receive less than couriers in food delivery services in Kiev. And unfortunately, even though this decision is necessary, and the Voice party will certainly support it, but when most scientists move into 0.5 bets, talking about what we're doing right now is great things for education and science, it doesn't work out. So let's do this by solving this question, let's go back to funding science and education in Ukraine, because now that scientists are working at 0.5 bets and running abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u71	Mrs. Inno, your point is quite correct, and this question really needs to be addressed comprehensively and systematically. But let's, at least on behalf of the Supreme Council, encourage young scientists and graduates of higher education institutions, and this award will really give them the opportunity to further research and acquire knowledge in higher education institutions for graduates.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u72	Thank you. Valery Viktorovich, please take your place. Please have the right to reply to Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, although, well, this is kind of an evaluation category. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u73	Sobolje, Fatherland. If you wanted to support this decision, it would have been voted in three minutes. And so we're going to be talking for 15 minutes, and we're going to be discussing completely worthless issues for almost an hour, instead of immediately solving the issue of funding young people with talent. That's why we're absolutely clear that in the middle room, I'm asking operators to show what's happening in the hall, when the issues are being considered, most of the factions are missing. That is why we urge that this issue be addressed immediately. The voices in the room are, by the way, we'll see how you vote for this issue. Solve this issue and move on to pressing issues that need to be resolved, not time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u74	Let's move on. Dear colleagues, we've got three minutes from the factions. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. The word is given to Podlasi Roxolani Andriyevni, a faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Sin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, in fact, the situation is that in this room we pay much more attention to correct spam rather than to pay attention to important issues of education and science, which unfortunately in this country is not being given at the level that our academics and our scientists deserve. And I think they are worthy of us now to devote an hour of our parliamentary time to discussing the problems that exist today in the field of science and education, because for 30 years education and science have been underfunded and has never been a priority for this state. And so far, we are putting education and science at the top of our list of priorities, as demonstrated by the State Budget project, where education and science stand in our five priorities, which will be financed next year. As far as this decision is concerned. My colleagues, I'm sure that each of you will now be supporting the green button of the important changes that are being proposed and will generally support our area of education for science. Young scientists, pedagogical workers of kindergartens, tradesmen, schools, higher education institutions, our young scientists -- all thanks to this determination, as well as the best participants in external independent evaluation -- are given additional opportunities. And we did it on the basis of the funds that remain in the fund of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, let's say that the way that individual national deputies react to their professional responsibilities, they don't attend our meetings, and that's how we get the funds that we are now channeling to support our education and science. What is the most important thing we do in this determination? We increase the number of rewards, we increase significantly, and instead of 30 prizes for teachers, the number of bonuses will increase to 50. From 30 to 50, there will be an increase in the number of prizes for young scientists, as well as in the number of prizes and scholarships for young scientists. They are the ones who need support from the state, because we are already talking about how underfunded science has been for all these years. And of course, we haven't forgotten about our children, about our future in Ukraine, about those children who have made external independent evaluations at the highest level. They too, not 30, but 50 of our talented children, will receive help from the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u76	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Golos". Sussun Inna Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u77	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, of course, I will support this decision and urge all colleagues to support it. Why? Because we have to demonstrate that education and science are important to Parliament. We need to demonstrate that we recognize the effort that scientists need to make in order to do research. We recognize the scientific results and educational results of children who have made the best external independent evaluation. But I would like us not to fool ourselves into solving some systemic problems in the field of education and science. Regrettably, today most Ukrainian scientists depend on these bonuses primarily because they work at 0.5 bets, they receive salaries today that are lower than the salaries of couriers who deliver food to Kiev. This is a totally unacceptable situation, which, unfortunately, has remained the norm for not even a decade. That's why we're losing scientific footage, which is why Ukrainian scientists are running abroad because they can't work here, they can't survive here, they can't do scientific research. Unfortunately, so do Ukrainian children in the education system. Now, by noting the best and deserving of their high results of external independent evaluation, we cannot ignore the fact that today we have a huge inequality in education. Unfortunately, children from poor families are discriminated against in access to quality education, and children from rural areas are discriminated against in access to quality education. And unfortunately, this discrimination has only become stronger now in the last two years of distance learning. We see children who do not have computers in their homes that do not have remote learning in their schools lose their second year of schooling. And unfortunately, we're not doing anything to help these kids today get out of the situation they're in. I'm with colleagues and Voice, and from other political parties, I registered two months ago a draft decree to introduce a special rehabilitation program in the education system to deal with the effects of COVID-19. Unfortunately, nothing is going on in this direction, and the decision remains unresolved. And instead of allocating resources to solve systemic problems, unfortunately, the authorities continue to give priority to roads, roads, and roads. I really hope that this decision will be voted out, but it will also open the way for us to have a deeper discussion of how we need to stimulate, reform and finance the education and science system. In order to celebrate not only the high results of the best but also the pride that all of us have in quality education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u78	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Volodymyr Viktorovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u79	Please give me the word of Coltunovich Aleksandro Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u80	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u81	Thank you, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich. Dear colleagues, I also support the discussion on the support of our scientists, academics and others. But once we've started talking about problems, I'd also like to pay attention to the problems that are in the field today and that you're trying to take this decision into account. We will, of course, support our opposition platform for life, because we consider it appropriate. But let me look at other points. First, first of all, the decision. You've twice, both the speaker and the committee representative, focused on increasing the number of scholarships from 30 to 50, otherwise from 30 to 54. But what is 54 people, many or few, and for scientists, including 50 prizes, now 30? See data from the Ukrainian State Statistics Service. Over the past academic year, they have determined that the number of graduates is 25,000 245. Fifty premiums for 25,000 postgraduates, including 11,000. Excuse me, 1,000 113 Ph.D. These are big figures, and this is basically more than 26,000 scientists, young people who are doing science. 50 prizes and 26,000 young scientists, young scientists That's how we support them. This time. It's about priority. But I'll say again, it's a good thing we're at least increasing it from 30 to 50. The next point is about the problems that you've talked about so much about here. And why doesn't anyone say that it's not budget priority for scientists, at least from the point of view that the scientific research institutes of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and other sectoral institutes are not funded? Why doesn't anyone in the profile committee tell and ask the minister of finance to cover the basic debt on salary when there's no annual payroll fund when individual research institutes work part-time when they work for three working days a week or so? Is that how we support national science? In my opinion, in the budget, and we were just making these amendments, which are supposed to be financed in a very different way by scientific and scientific and technical activity, rather than giving them a premium to not pay a salary for a few weeks. Another moment. People who work and have to go on vacation on their own account. Why is this question not raised? Why don't you raise these problems before the finance minister? Or is it the same when a party of authorities initiates two TSCs at the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences to raid entire property complexes and entire land arrays? Why do you keep your mouth shut, the profile committee, and you don't say anything about it? Or when do builders want to carry out raids on the Academy of Sciences buildings? These are the urgent problems that are needed today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u82	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Zinkevich Jani Vadimovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u84	Sophia Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u85	Part of the monofractory went into the unknown, where we had the time to talk about science. But the question is, how long do you think there's in those patients who don't have oxygen? You don't have the opportunity for four months, you don't have the time, and you don't want to put a bill to vote that will provide oxygen stations to the hospital. So we can talk here, not about the anxiety about science, but about the higher level of cynicism. But if we already have the opportunity to talk now about what we could vote for right now, right now, I'm going to say that this decision, although "European solidarity" fully supports it, it's an attempt to put out a global-scale fire with water at the bottom of a pot, because the problems of education and science are much bigger. Let's be honest, individual awards won't solve the problem of the meager salaries of teachers and teachers. Well, you can't survive a teacher's salary of 6-7 thousand dollars. You can't survive a teacher's salary from 8 to 9,000 dollars, but one article in Scopus, if you want to legally publish it, costs about 700 euros. How should the teacher improve, and how should he represent Ukrainian science in the international arena? Let us continue to speak honestly. We have a critical problem today with the level and quality of education of both students and students, two years in the reality of COVID and distance learning. And we have to make it clear that, as one of my colleagues mentioned earlier, we have a critical problem with discrimination against those who do not have access to remote education. Okay, if one child has a gadget or a computer, if there are five or more children in the family (we luckily have such families in Ukraine), how can they provide for the training of their children? Third. It seems to me that everything is being done system-wide for the mass emigration of young scientists, such a kind of brain drain. And so it seems that Ukraine doesn't need them, because it's easier to manage gray blunt mass. I don't want my country to associate with someone with a gray blunt mass, but the result of the 2022 State Budget project shows that there is little support for education, science and culture that is critical to the development of the state as such. And the cherry on the cake is a new attempt to moscowize Ukrainian education.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u86	The word is given to Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrni, faction of "The Fatherland." Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u87	Please give John Krulk a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u88	Ivanovich Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u89	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We're discussing the whole process of giving scholarships to talented scientists. You know, colleagues and Ukrainians, I've looked at dozens of decisions that the Supreme Council has adopted in the same way -- no decision has been discussed at all. They were voted immediately in general and awarded prizes to the scientists they deserved. What's going on now? I just want us to understand very clearly why now is the hour of precious parliamentary time spent talking about the support of science. You want to talk about science, I'll tell you literally two words. Look at the budget that you approved on the first reading yesterday, how much did you put in there for science? Zero! Zero to support science is a real concern for science, not a scholarship decree for young scientists! The second question. You know, please tell me, at a time when Ukraine is leading Europe at the rate of COVID, when we're overcrowded in hospitals, when people are dying of COVID, where are the bills to fight COVID? Why are we not considering this? Why is Julia Timoshenko’s bill not being considered, which envisions a reduction in tariffs for people? Why aren't we considering this law right now? Instead of looking at it, time is spent. And then they're going to tell us, let's do a reduced procedure of 5,600, which kills business, totally kills. This is not to be discussed. How was the land sale law considered? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The Antioliarchical Law — How Did It Be Viewed? You didn't have to discuss it, did you? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. But for now, they're looking at it in full. You know, Ukrainians, what's the real reason? And the real reason is that there's now a shipment of government posts. And it's because they can't make a deal with each other, who's going to be able to do what job in this time of the plague, who's going to be hugging this crownavirus, who's going to be putting up a full-time job in the Supreme Council. Look at the session room: there are virtually no MPs from the "Serve of the People" there are no votes to support the bill, which is the real reason why this time is delayed. We propose to stop this discussion immediately, to stop immediately, to consider bills that apply to tariffs, to consider bills that deal with minimum pensions for people, to consider bills that apply to COVID and to provide today's medical services to all people in hospitals. This will be a real concern for people. And you don't have to give up on the opposition that you said you'd let us talk about science. You don't have to talk about science, you have to spend real money, and you have to do it in the budget, and you don't have to powder people's brains, because people have long figured out who's really fighting for people, who's only doing it neatly and who's only doing it. We're up for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u90	The word is given to National Deputy Constanceevich Irina Miroslavni, "The Party for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u91	Dear fellow national MPs! First of all, I want to say that the members of the Party for the Future will certainly support this decision because we believe that science should be properly funded. But I immediately point out that it is just a drop in the sea of the necessary and necessary support that the State should provide for science and science. The issue of underfunding science is indeed chronic. And if we compare government budgets to science every year, we're going to see that the growth that's taking place, it's negligible, especially last year's science funding was 824 million, in the 22nd year's budget is an increase to 825 million, that is zero, zero, zero. And these costs, unfortunately, don't solve the question or the financing of the Academy of Sciences, they don't solve the financing of university science, they don't solve the salaries of scientists. And it's all the more unfortunate that everyone in this room, one in four in this room, is a candidate for science or a doctor of science. Because if you look at the statistics, we have 74 candidates for science and 29 doctors for science. So it would seem to me that this would be a collective issue, one out of four would have to unite and turn their efforts towards the government to convince the Ministry of Finance to increase funding for science. So I call on all the doctors present, the science candidates, if we're really behind science, let's not make it a populism, not just a declaration, but make it a real thing. So the "For the Future" parties for science, for the promotion of scholarships, but also for the real increase in funding for the Academy of Sciences and university science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u92	Thank you. And the closing statement, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u93	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, of course, the "Trust" MPs will vote in favour of this decision, because we understand the importance of today's support for our young talented people, scientists, those involved in development. But I would like to draw your attention from our MP group, your honors, to the next. We've already given an example of how in a powerful country like the United States at the end of the 20th century, deep research was carried out on the quality of the knowledge that students, students of teaching institutions in the United States receive. And they admitted that the quality of this knowledge is quite low. And after that, it was immediately prepared at the President's address, saying that the low quality of knowledge is a threat to the national security of the country. After that, some changes were made, and today the United Kingdom is worthy of the conditions for both the work of scientists and the development of the system, as well as the whole country. What's going on with us? The members of the trust group took a close look at the national report on the state of the education and science system, which was prepared for the 30-year-old Independence National Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, an extremely deep, serious study. And of him, unfortunately, we can make certain and very critical conclusions for our education system. Today, according to the quality of knowledge, Ukraine is already 63 places in the world. Remember, in the early 2000s, we took 33 seats, and that's going to cause a lot of concern for everyone today. Because the low quality of the knowledge of our students in higher education institutions is inhibiting the development of our country as a whole. That's why I'm addressing all my distinguished fellow MPs today, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. We need to unite our efforts to maximize the financing of education and science, the implementation of all scientific and research programs, the support of our national colleges, and, of course, individual talented, capable students and students. That is exactly what our mission is, and then we will surely count on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u94	Thank you. Then we have the national MPs. Will the national deputies be willing to speak, or can we move on? We're voting, aren't we? I'm asking the people's deputies to take over. Are there any other national MPs who want to speak? Then I'd like you to sign up for the National Deputies. There are other deputies who want to speak. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, our faction supports this decision, surely we are for education to develop. But today, see what is happening around the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know, on the one hand, you can understand people, they're afraid of everything new, because the campaign is appropriate. And I want to tell you that the campaign for anti-vaccination has been much more effective than the state whose responsibility it was to run the vaccination campaign. Please tell me, are we worse than Hungarians and Poles? All right, the Hungarians are a nation, they say. But Poles are Slavs, just like us. Why is 53% of them vaccinated today, and they don't have any problems? Why do we have 18 percent and today block access to the Supreme Council of Ukraine? People are afraid, and that's understandable. In April and May of this year, we begged and demanded that you start working with people, explain to them the need for vaccination, explain to them the consequences of not being vaccinated. I understand that in May-month you had nothing to say, there were no vaccines, there were no vaccination centers. A year ago, we warned that vaccines would come, not thanks, but against, and people would have to be vaccinated. Only a week, I can say, by studying the situation, the discovery of mass vaccinations began. Now another problem is the lack of doctors. Didn't we talk about this a year ago? To engage students, engage military doctors, do nothing, do nothing but do what our neighbors have done, what most countries in the world have done. And the fact that we are now third in the world in terms of perimortem mortality and second in Europe, which countries are ahead of us? The United Shatas and Russia. But in the United States, there are more than a thousand deaths, but they have more than 300 million people, and in Russia there are 150 million, and they have roughly the same number of deaths, and we have 720 today. Please tell me, who will be responsible for this? To accuse Ukrainians of dying because they are not vaccinated, I now charge this authority. The government, the government, along with this poor minister Ljashk, must resign and be held criminally responsible for their criminal inaction, resulting in the deaths of Ukrainians, unfortunately, and this is the responsibility of the government. I wish everyone health and power.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u96	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kradenek Vladimir Viktorovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Sergio Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u98	Babak Sergey Vitaliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u99	Good afternoon! This is a very important decision in fact, but I want to talk not only about it, but about where these decisions began. When we came to Parliament in 2019, we also had these prizes for both science and pedagogical workers, and for teachers, and for young doctors of science, but the amount of these bonuses was 20,000 dollars or 24,000 dollars. It has now been two years, as we have in Parliament, two years, of how well our educationally unified committee works as one family. Now these bonuses are worth 136 thousand, so think about it, we've raised them six times, six times as much as the provision of both pedagogical workers and young scientists at the top of the board. And we've all voted early this year to create a new prize -- for the top 100 grand of school graduates. And the next plenary week, we're going to vote with you on these 30 kids that are actually the best ones for external independent evaluation. And think about it, they've got at least 792 points out of 800 possible. These are really great results, these kids need to be supported. But in order to increase this support not only by money, but also by quantity, we have actually developed this decree to the committee. In order to identify not 30 of the best doctors of science who gave jobs, because competitions for our cadence because of the increase in the prize have increased at the same time, and we want as many talented young doctors of science as possible, young scientists to encourage our prizes. Similarly, every time we reward together with the Committee and the Head of the Supreme Council of Pedagogical Workers of the Best Last Year, we also look into their eyes and we also talk to them, and we also hear from them that we are not the only ones. And that's why we want to increase the amount of these bonuses so that as many young, talented teachers as possible will be rewarded for what they do. The same is true of children who make up the U.N.S. So we've increased the amount of bonuses and we're going to increase the amount. But here's another thing I'd like to point out, dear colleagues. We're talking. Now in the hall we hear that there's underfunded science, there's underfunded education. My colleagues, I would like to remind you that the Education Committee, at its meeting with the State Budget Project for 2022, has made a 30 billion-dollar adjustment. Let's talk about it. Let's better support these revisions to all the halls, and so we'll increase the costs of education, and we'll increase the costs of science, and we'll be able to look honestly into the eyes of young scientists and talented teachers. It's very important. So I'm asking you to support our committee rights to the state budget, and, of course, this draft regulation. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u100	Thank you, colleagues. We have completed our consideration of this draft decision, so please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal of the committee to accept, in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a draft regulation amending certain decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the award of marks by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the field of education and science (registration number of project 6156). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:45:41]] For 345. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Please, Motovilover.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u101	Dear National Deputies, in accordance with part two of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we propose to make changes to the order of our plenary work and to work today until the conclusion of the bill, registration number 5600, amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the balance of budgetary revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll give you one minute to discuss this question, because it's said that this question can be discussed. Please, who will be the first to discuss? Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Let's go. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u103	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that in September 2020, you yourself changed to part five of article 19 and removed Wednesday from those days on which the Supreme Council may continue to work after 14 hours. I personally pointed out to you that you would face this problem, and then the chairman convinced me that it was not, that it was a conscious decision that you would be following for four years. Be consistent. But, fellow Members, I warn you, making this decision is not just a gross violation of the Rules, it means delegimizing all decisions of Parliament after 14 hours. You do this consciously and you will have the right result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u104	Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I fully support the position that has just been sounded, indeed under the Rules we cannot continue. But let's look at the logic. We want to continue to adopt Bill 5600 today. What's the point of rushing one day if, according to the Transitional Regulations of this law, it enters into force on January 1, 2022? That's why there's an offer. To follow the Rules, and, frankly, to respect the time, schedule, and meetings of committees, by the way, and colleagues, let's just take the matter to the fourth place and take it easy. And that's going to be compliance with the Rules, and we're going to stick to some logic, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u106	Please, from Fatherland who? Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u107	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, this isn't just about breaking the Rules -- this is about basic conscience. For an hour you considered a question that we could vote on in one minute. And right after that, you put it to a vote: let's keep working. Is there any kind of decency at all? And what about the committees? At three o’clock, committees of the Supreme Council are appointed. When should they be conducted? All people are invited — invited representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, others and other interested persons. I do not believe that such decisions can be made, this is a violation of the Rules, a gross violation of the Rules. This is a delimitation of decisions that will be made after 14 hours. But most of all, it's full propaganda and a demonstration of the full potential of the majority that today calls itself monocolation. We will vote against that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u108	Thank you. Please, Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u109	Dear fellows, we are of sound mind in this House. That's why we remember that Wednesday is the day when the opposition bill is voted, the social bill. In this context, social bills that we don't see today are in order of the day. We remind you that the regulatory committee has decided to remove Mrs. Trelyakow's head of social policy for five plenary days. So our MPs, like the other factions and groups that signed this, demand that it be removed and placed in the agenda. We don't vote for this question. We are to begin consideration of 5,600 and complete it on Thursday, as logically indicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u110	Thank you. Please, Ivanchuk. After that, I can see, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, after that, the Hetmans. And let's go to the vote, and the room will decide. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u111	Dear Mr. Head, you know, we always remember the Rules when it's convenient. Our colleague, Mr. Motovlovec, made an offer, the Supreme Council may make a collective decision by a majority of the constitutional composition. So, Mr. Head, I don't think it would be a big deal if you put in a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u112	Please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u113	Please pass the word to Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u114	Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u115	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, what is now being done is unacceptable. At 3 p.m., almost everyone has scheduled committee meetings. Some 20 guests are invited to the Freedom of Speech Committee. How do they explain that because the Supreme Council is unable to vote one law, we are now going to deny people their issues? Law 5600 could have been adopted long ago if you wanted to accept it. You want to accept him as the oligarchs fear him. So I suggest that we do not change anything today, and tomorrow we adopt this law in a calm, orderly manner. If it's necessary to continue the work of the Supreme Council tomorrow, please. And today it's for the sake of breaking up the committee's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u116	Please, the Gethmans Danilo Alexanderovich. And then we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, looking at the 5599 and 5600 anti-oligarchy package, we always hear about what's not right on time. We always find new rules of the Rules that do not allow us to consider now, but we need to consider tomorrow, or next week, or not at all. Finally, we're talking to you about a resource bill for the budget. We're talking to you about this bill that business needs to know about and get it in advance to prepare for its implementation. So I insist that we look at it today -- and we've finally closed the issue, not abuse it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've all discussed this. So please, the hall is defined, everyone who thinks it's a question. That's why I'm putting the proposal made by the national deputy Motovilovac to a vote. Please vote. [[11:53:23]] For 225 Dear colleagues, the decision is not made, so we're going in the same direction we're going. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the following issues. [[B in m in s a l in]] By factions, please show the vote. We're going through, we have three questions in a row about the elimination of inaccuracies or inconsistencies in the adopted law. We have three bills to eliminate inconsistencies and inaccuracies. Let's go first to bill 2203. Honorary Colleagues, on September 17, 2020, the Supreme Council passed the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on restricting the work of loved ones. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we need to remove some disagreements in certain provisions of the law. Suggestions for the settlement of disagreements are given. Therefore, high-ranking colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to remove disagreements in the text of the adopted Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on restricting the joint work of close persons. I'm going to put in those parts that are defined. So, your honorary colleagues, I'm voting on the exact wording in the right column of the comparative table given to you, section I, paragraph 4, of the adopted law. Please vote. [[11:55:24]] For 336 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the exact wording in the right column of the comparative table given to you, section I, paragraph 1, of the adopted law. Please vote. [[11:55:55]] For 312 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the exact wording in the right column of the comparative table given to you, section I, paragraph 2, of the adopted law. Please vote. [[11:56:26]] For 310 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the exact wording in the right column of the comparative table given to you, section I, paragraph 3, of the adopted law. Please vote. [[11:56:57]] For 307 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the exact wording in the right column of the comparative table given to you, section 5 of the adopted law. Please vote. [[11:57:27]] For 312 Decision taken. And the last. I put to the vote the exact wording in the right column of the comparative table, chapter III of the adopted law. Please vote. [[11:57:56]] For 309 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have removed the differences in this law. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, we have considered and removed disagreements in the adopted Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on restricting the work of loved ones. Since the draft Law (Registration No. 2203) amending certain Ukrainian legislation on restricting the work of close persons has been adopted by us as the law of September 17, 2020, when the position of the Head of the Supreme Council has been covered by the previous speaker and the right of signature of acts adopted by the Supreme Council has been accepted by the acting Head of the Supreme Council, I propose that the appointed law be signed immediately by the acting Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. I would like to place a motion on the vote to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Alexiyovich Stefanchuku, to sign the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws on restricting the work of close individuals. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:59:09]] For 259. Thank you. Decision taken. 259. Show the factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. Please be in the hall in 30 minutes. We'll continue our consideration of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall. We are continuing our meeting. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the next question – this is the issue of removing disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the status of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine (draft 5459-1). Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that on October 20th of this year, the Supreme Council passed the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the status of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we need to remove some disagreements in certain provisions of the law. Proposals for the settlement of disagreements have been made to you, so, with your permission, I will put to the vote a motion for the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the status of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution (registration number 5459-1). I'll also put them in turn. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no procedure here, it's 131. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the exact wording in the right column of the comparative table of paragraph "b", sub-paragraph 3 of paragraph 1 of section I of the adopted law. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:39:05]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the precise wording in the right column of the comparative table given to you in paragraph 5 of Part Four, adopted by Parliament, of article 4 of the Ukrainian Act "On the National Anti-Corruption Bureau", but within the framework of this bill. Please vote. [[12:39:42]] For 270. Decision taken. Next. I'm betting on the vote on the exact wording in the right column of the comparative table of paragraph "in" of paragraph 5 of section 1 of the adopted law. Please vote. [[12:40:14]] For 276 Decision taken. And the last correction. The voting is based on the wording specified in the right column of the comparative table given to you in subsection 2, paragraph 5, of section II of the adopted law. Please vote. [[12:40:48]] For 281 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, within the framework of this bill, inaccuracies have been removed. Thank you. We have two factions asking for a break with a replacement for a performance. I'd like to invite the People's Deputy of the Prince. Colleagues, please don't break up, we'll vote on it later.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank all those people's deputies who did not vote for the proposal to violate the Rules and Laws when we illegally wanted to continue the work of our Supreme Council on Wednesday. There is now another law-breaking proposal. You all remember the way we voted (well, the majority vote and the oligarchs in this room) for a law that actually legitimizes the oligarchy and creates a new oligarchy in a country that is considered ironic by fate to be antioligarchial. Three options were voted without hearing the rights, and three were voted on, according to one article, where the President and the MPB determine who the oligarch is, secondly, according to the Antimonopoly Committee and other state bodies, and thirdly, the special commission, in one word, voted in full absurdity. Now we are asked to correct the inaccuracies. What's that? It's proposed in this law in the fourth part to replace the words "explanations can be heard" with the words "explanations are heard." That's all the inaccuracies. In fact, under this impreciseness, the law is copied, without removing the contradictions that were actually there, and a completely new version of the law is written contrary to the Rules, contrary to article 131 of the Rules. Friends, let's write with the same success that we are still champions in the fight against the coronavirus, as Vladimir Alexanderovich said, let's write down that we have the most gas, oil and coal, that we are all happy that the age of poverty is over. Obviously, this is a complete violation of both the law and the Rules and the Constitution. "European solidarity" urges you not to destroy parliamentaryism. We are in this room to be responsible, whether we are in the majority or in the opposition. Colleagues of the majority, what you do most, does not give you the right to break the law and destroy Ukrainian statehood and Ukrainian parliamentaryism, on the contrary, imposes on you additional responsibility for all of us to abide by the law, for Parliamentarianism to work. Once again, I urge you not to make a mistake, not to break the Rules, because tomorrow, in any law without any legal reason, without any vote, there will be something that Ukraine cannot be, that we must surrender Ukraine and betray Ukraine and the Ukrainians. Let's not let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on, please take your seats. This is the final elimination of inaccuracies today. Hence, on September 23, this year, the Supreme Council passed the Law on the Prevention of National Security Threats, which is linked to the excessive influence of persons with significant economic or political importance in social life (oligarchus). In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we need to remove some disagreements in certain provisions of the law. Suggestions for the settlement of disagreements are given. Therefore, with your permission, as before, I turn to the vote on the proposal to eliminate disagreements in the text of the adopted Law on the Prevention of National Security associated with excessive security. [[B in m in s a l in]] All texts are distributed together. Let me finish. Please, what's the problem? Please, Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, before you go to the vote, I would like to remind you of the Constitutional Court's decision 2-pp of 2018, which clearly states that a violation of the legislative procedure for the review of laws can serve as a basis for declaring an act unconstitutional. Now you're going to violate the legal procedure, and that calls constitutionality into question. And the second. I remind you that a violation of the Constitution is a crime and that you will continue to act in harmony with your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Do you have a procedure, too, Vasil Ivanovich? Please, Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko, one minute out of procedure. It's only a request that's real from the procedure. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u126	Dear Chairman, I would like you not to share the hall: comfortable and uncomfortable. This is the first time. And secondly, you are not a shepherd, you are the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please follow the rules and procedures. Now I'll tell you. What is the basis for the Constitution, on which basis did you come up with a new legal category, such as disagreements in the text of the law, and change it by decree of the Supreme Council? Are you laughing at the law of Ukraine? Are you making fun of the Constitution? The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, you have gone the wrong way. I guarantee you this doesn't fit the Constitution, the basics. And give the legal category its legal nature, please. What Is Legality?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u127	Thank you. I find it strange to explain to such a professional lawyer as you, what is the "removal of disagreements" clearly written in 131 articles of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. Dear colleagues, please, Irina Volodymyrna, and we will proceed to the vote. And Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, we've been working on the budget with you for the past two weeks, and this room has had thousands of amendments, and this is a normal job. I would like to remind you that no amendments were made to the so - called Antioligartic Bill. And this is really a gross violation of the Rules. What kind of technical disagreements are we talking about now that we're worried about this? More loyally, you've voted for the absolute mutually exclusive rules for the RNA, which will make up the lists of these oligarchs, and for the NAMC, what will be the list of oligarchs? And now you're thinking about some sort of technical vote. It's cheating again. And what's more, the tables that the room is voting on right now are not electronic, they're not distributed by the halls. I understand that envelopes do wonders, and now what they're going to say is that most people are pushing a green button, but it's a really gross violation of the Rules. Pass this law to Zelenski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u129	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved and we're moving on to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u130	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, go to the Supreme Council website, there's only a comparative table, there's no committee decision on the site. Do it right now, online, in real time. How can we consider such a draft decision without a committee decision? The other one. In fact, there are now three different standards that regulate who defines the so - called oligarchs. There's John Krulk's standard, which was supported by the hall, so without the committee's decision, we don't have the right to consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u131	Please, Dmitry Alexanderovich. Let's move on to the vote after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u132	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, three different articles have been voted on during the consideration of this bill, but this was the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and no other provision has been made. There's now a replacement of 131 because one word is changing, and there's a complete copy of the article. This will be seen as a de facto destruction of the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And a change that we don't even see because there is no committee decision. The committee had to consider the matter and make an offer to the Chief of the Supreme Council to leave one article alone, either in the version proposed by me and my colleagues, or by Mr. Krulk, or by the Office of the President. That didn't happen, and unfortunately, in this case, it's impossible to apply 131 as proposed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u133	I was just informed by the apparatus that all the documents were posted on the Supreme Council site in 01.11.2021. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. The voting is based on the exact wording in the right column of the comparative table of article 5 of the adopted law. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[12:50:52]] For 249 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The wording in the right column of the comparative table of article 7 of the adopted law is 5599. Please vote. [[12:51:23]] For 249 Decision taken. And an extreme, final proposal for clarification. The voting is based on the exact wording in the right column of the comparative table of article 9 of the adopted law. Please vote. [[12:51:52]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. And Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, we have considered and made decisions on the elimination of differences in the adopted law. I propose, as in Bill 2203, the previous one, since Bill 5599 on the Prevention of National Security, dealing with the excessive influence of persons with significant economic or political importance in social life (Oligarchs) was passed as a law on 23 September this year, when the position of the Head of the Supreme Council was covered by the previous speaker and the right of signatures of acts adopted by the Supreme Council has been approved by the acting Head of the Supreme Council, and I propose that the Head of the Supreme Council be immediately signed the Law of Ukraine. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal to entrust the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Alexiyovich Stefanchuku, with the immediate signature of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of National Security Threats associated with the excessive influence of persons who have a significant economic or political weight in social life (oligarchs). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:53:08]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. Show the factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u135	Thank you, Your Honor. We're moving on in the daytime. I'll bet you we'll move on to personnel issues. First question. Oh, excuse me, from the procedure, please, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u136	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'll have my next proposal and request from the procedure. Given that we are now going to consider resignation applications, we need to hear from each of the ministers, the active ministers, about the results of their activities. And in my opinion, it's not supposed to be some sort of banal report, it's supposed to be specific. They went in when ministers became, what were the parameters, and who they are now. And then you'll see, you'll come out of these illusions that we went into the parameters of one, and today they're much worse. And this is about both the economy, industry, and environmental policy, and the issue of conflict resolution on Donbass. So I have a purely procedural request that you also support this and that we now hear, not the banal reports, but the actual specific parameters and performance indicators that are done specifically, what they take and what they give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u137	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. If I'm not mistaken, article 18 of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not provide for an order of reporting in the event of discharge. Dear colleagues, let's get to the bottom of this. I'm out of procedure. Give me 1 minute. Who? Irina Volodymyrna, and then Vadim Evgenovich Yvchenko, and we're moving on to the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the parliamentary-presidential republic, if we are still in the parliamentary-presidential republic with you, it provides for the reporting of the government and the specific ministers to the Supreme Council. I would like to point out that our faction has repeatedly insisted, for example, on the Secretary of Defense's report to Parliament, and this has never even been supported. And, really, it's crazy today, when the government's beds are empty, empty, there's only one minister there when we don't understand why they're being released, if we're told that this is the most effective government of today, that these are the most brilliant new faces, and we want them not to be assigned here now, but to have a report. And we have a lot of questions both in ecology and in reintegration, and in economics, and especially in defence, about what's happening today in the Ukrainian Armed Forces with our demand. We demand the presence of ministers here. We hope that health allows everyone to be here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u139	I also hope that health allows everyone to be, and I want it for all of us. Thank you. Please, Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko. And let's get to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u140	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, when you claimed to be the head of Parliament, you spoke of one thing: You will do your utmost to respect Parliament and every MP. Parliament is not just a majority -- there is opposition in Parliament. And, believe me, respect for Parliament when there are four ministers here that we offer, or five, to be released, and respect will be given when everyone is motivated to say that he has failed. This, by the way, was discussed by Pat Cox during his five - year work with the parliament. Every MP needs respect and respect and a minority needs to be heard. I'd like you to start by talking to me about it. Allow the MPs to hear the reasons for their release. I personally want to know clearly both about defense and about the defense order.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u141	Thank you. Vadim Eugenovich, all discharges today are made on the basis of applications made by themselves. All ministers are informed of the date of the hearing and are invited. I cannot as a national deputy bring them in, or as the Head of the Supreme Council bring them into the hall. Please, Rahmanin Sergey Ivanovich. And then there's another one. Yeah, that's it, I see. Jacenko. Then we'll move on. Please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u142	Thank you. Sergey Rachmanin, Voice faction. I would like to remind you that according to 113 articles of the Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers is an organ, accountable and accountable to the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, no one has revoked parliamentary control, no one has revoked responsibility. This is a direct reference to the Constitution. And the fact that ministers are simply not even in bed means not only disrespect for the MP's corps – it means gross, brutal disrespect for all voters, I stress, for all the voters who voted for valid MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u143	Thank you. Please, Yatzenka, one minute, and please proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u144	Dear Mr. Speaker, dear colleagues! We really have such a busy political week. But if you look at the agenda, we have ratifications from the twelfth question. So I have a purely technical proposal: anyway, whatever personnel issues we're looking at, we're going to move forward and consider ratifications, because we have an appropriate commitment to our international partners. That is why there is such a request. And please put my proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u145	Mr. Anton, may I ask you, are we staffed at first, and immediately after the staff, will I make this offer? Don't take too long. Thank you for understanding. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, article 12, paragraph 12, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be released from office of the Ministers of Ukraine. A member of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, Minister of Environmental and Natural Resources Protection of Ukraine, Roman Romanovich Abramowski, wrote on October 19 about his resignation. The right materials are given to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:59:44]] For 258. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy and Use, Oleg Volodymyrovich Bondarenko, is invited to attend. In two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u146	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy and Use at its meeting on 20 October considered Mr. Abramowski Romanovich's application to resign as Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine and approved the decision recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide on the resignation of the Minister of Environmental Protection, Ukraine's natural resources, Abramski Romanovich, in the session room during the vote. Dear colleagues, this decision of the committee is a sign of our great honor for the work of Romanovitch Abramowski on the committee's part. Few people managed to create a new ministry from scratch after that short experiment with the Ministry of Energy and the Environment. Few have managed to assemble such a quality, professional, and orderly team as was assembled by Mr. Abramowski in such a short period of time. Few have been able to establish a clear framework for the Ministry’s activities. So we expressed such respect for the minister and made such a decision. But, on the other hand, as head of the committee myself, I would like to ask you to support your resignation application and release the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u147	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign two representatives of the MP factions for the pro and two representatives of the MP factions for the "against," in two minutes each. Please. The word is given to Ariev Volodymyr Igorovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u148	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u149	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u150	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear citizens of Ukraine and honourable colleagues, I want to tell you, we are now starting to consider a whole range of personnel issues: the resignation of another minister. Guys, that's not what we're doing -- we need this President's resignation, which is so staff policy, that it's turned into a random number generator and a random people's generator. Look what's going on. At first, we appointed some people for what, now we're releasing them. The committee head comes out, says, "Mr. Minister of Ecology has worked very well." Then why are you firing him? It's completely incomprehensible what's going on. Friends, Zelensky does this: he works for all ministers. This is one person who works for all ministers. This is Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski. He doesn't like anyone from time to time. Maybe he's not laughing loud enough at his jokes, maybe not enough time watching 95 blocks on TV, maybe something else is wrong, then he's gone. Then, when did they send you away, how did you pick up a new minister? He went out into the hallway, he saw someone he liked, and go to the ministers, and they'll teach you. Friends, that's not how the state works, there's got to be a program of government action. Friends, where is the program of this government? You, the majority, we don't know where this government is moving the state. Next. According to the government’s programme of action, a program is to appear in each ministry. Then there should be specific performance indicators for what the Ministry should do. Then there should be a select manager who can do this, and he still has to answer by specific indicators: he failed, he got fired, he did it, he did it. We have this completely different, so in a country of chaos, the ratings of power are falling and you're pulling the country into a chasm.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u151	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Mealik Viktor Nichiporovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u152	Please give Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u153	Victor Vasilovich Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, we have approached an important bloc -- changes in government, changes in staffing. It's actually a block that shows once again that there's no systemic work today on the formation of government, on the formation of a government strategy, on what ministers should actually do. What have we seen in the last two years? Several times these ministries, which are being reappointed today, merged with other ministries, separated. Then, six months later, after a year, there were competitions for the appointment of substitutes, directors of various businesses that were subordinated to these ministers and so forth. And in fact, there are ministers who could effectively show their activity if they could last at least two or three years and allow them to work properly. What did you offer them instead, a big team of monogamous people? You've offered them half a year and a half to hold competitions, which then block in the courts, block out and so forth. Strategic initiatives were made on the hands and feet. Instead of thinking about the strategy, the strategy of action in every direction of the ministry, in the whole of the government, they were all busy forming half a year's state, looking for budgets, buildings, cars, what to do, what to drive, and all of a sudden they came to the finish because you didn't actually let them work. And you don't allow your mindless policies to form a normal government or a normal perspective for any government. What am I talking about? Cancel all the pseudo-processes that have been invented by foreign counselors in recent years. Put the system in order so that in one day a person can be appointed and asked to be removed in one day, if he exerts himself to the side or fails to carry out a normal assignment, then you will restore the management system. Give order to the government's strategy where it's going, and the key issues it's going to solve this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u155	I'd like to invite you to the statement of Ukrainian National Deputy Rachminin Sergey Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u156	Please pass the word to Lesi Vasilko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u157	Please, Lesya Vasilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, we are now considering with you a series of decisions on the release of ministers. The release of the minister from environmental issues is considered, frankly, at a very strange time. The liberation took place, took place and took place before and during the world's largest climate conference -- an event where Ukraine was to go, presenting its achievements and presenting its needs and demands in the country's greening process. Unfortunately, however, the Ukrainian government delegation went there, softly speaking, unprepared, just as the Presidential delegation, with very strange thesis, with very strange meddling and not taking advantage of this action and this opportunity fully, as it should have been, had the minister remained in his position, if the team remained in its place and worked fully, as it should have been. What is happening now is weakening the state and weakening any programs that should be implemented in this country. We are now making very interesting decisions that undermine the overall fate of the Ministry of Environment in this country. This ministry, I remind you, was actually created from scratch, after the government, more faithfully, decided to unify the two ministries and then separate them. The Ministry is now without a minister. Who's the next minister? What candidature is unknown. Will there be a team left to work with? We don't know. In this ministry, programs are stuck, in this ministry are stuck with the bills that the people of Ukraine need right now in order to live in a safe, healthy environment, and so that in a safe, healthy environment, our future generations can grow. Unfortunately, this is a question that concerns not only this ministry, but absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u159	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Volodymyr Viktorovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u160	Please give the word of Natalia Yuriovna Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u161	Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, we don't have to move chairs on the deck of Titanic. What are you doing? Your government today is the Titanic, and that is clear to everyone in our country. And you're dragging the whole country after you today. Have a little bit of mind, release this non-professional government, which has created such a big problem in the country today with its inactivity, irresponsibleness, the absence of an anti-crisis program, without seeing the magnitude of the crisis. The problem is an energy crisis. And the problem is that today, unfortunately, there is no protection for the people who live in the zone of combat in the eighth year, and today it's getting worse in the east. And that's why our team demands that this whole government resign immediately. Our team requires the creation of a professional, anti-crisis government that will be able to bring the country out of crisis today. We urge you to review the budget immediately in 2021. Today people need to increase social standards, today people need to review tariff policies. We urge you to stop the political persecution of your opponents, to free Victor Medvedchuk today, and to allow professional people to work in our country. We're talking to you that time, like political ambitions, you put above the country's interests, it's gone. Today is the time to protect people, unite efforts, and make responsible decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Oh, please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. Then we vote. People's deputies please come to the hall. Sergei Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u164	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, when one third of the government is released, is it the fault of individual ministers? Everyone understands very well when they release the early VPs, the VPs, the key ministers, so something is wrong with the government? Will we continue to hide behind the next minister of health, the minister of the environment? So you just praised him, he created a ministry from scratch, and now it turns out we're releasing him. Our faction no doubt believes that the government and the ministers should be retired. But that's just the beginning. We understand perfectly when more than half of the population is in favor of the parliamentary elections, perhaps the time has come.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let us move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 85 and 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, put to the vote the proposal to release the minister of environmental protection and natural resources of Ukraine, Roman Romanovich Abramowski, by accepting his resignation on his application. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:13:28]] For 322 Decision taken. Please make a decision on the outcome of the decision that we have made with the Apparatus. And thank the Minister for his work. [[Applause]] Let's move on. The next question is the release of Ljutchenko Alexija Mikolaiovich from office as First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economy of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, article 12, paragraph 12, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be released from office of the Ministers of Ukraine. Member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine First Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Economy of Ukraine Alexei Mikolaiovich Lyubchenko wrote a statement of resignation on 1 November. The right materials are given to you. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:14:29]] For 265 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Development, Dmitry Andriyovich Nataluha, is invited to attend. Please, in two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! Thank you. Indeed, a statement came from the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Economy of Ukraine, regarding his resignation from office. The Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on November 2, 2021, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, reviewed the application. During the discussion, the National Deputies discussed what, in principle, was able to accomplish with the Ministry in this brief period of time. We also have to talk about growth points, we have to talk about copyright reform, which was launched in this short term. We're going to talk about the beginning of a system in the Export Credit Agency and the stability of more or less consumer price markets. Accordingly, and as a result of the discussion, the members of the committee were unable to agree on the issue of the resignation of Lovek Aleksija Mikolaiovich from the post of First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Economy of Ukraine, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that Ukraine should be determined by voting on the issue. I personally wanted to thank Alexia Mikolaiovich for her fruitful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u167	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign in with two representatives -- in favour, two -- for the record. Please. Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u168	Please pass the word to Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u169	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I would like to begin by quoting from the Israeli author of the aphorisms: "Bummarang is a judge for justice." Everyone knows that under the law boomerang both good and bad things return to their owner. And in this case, it was Alexei Mikolaiovich who received the boomerang, and he became the anti-entity draft of Law 5,600 with that boomerang, against which all business associations stand, all entrepreneurs. On May 20, when he applied for this position, I urged him to intervene and show his position. At the time, 5,600 was only approved, and he was to show and be a reliable advocate of the Ukrainian business. But that didn't happen. And we've never heard from him personally about Project 5600. We have not heard him speak at least about the harmfulness of certain standards. So he didn't find the strength and ability to at least take some initiative and make a statement. And of course, today, on November 3rd, when we start to consider this shameful draft of the law in the second reading, it was returned to him by boomerang just like his irresponsibility and lack of any position. And I'd also like to say that, in fact, the Ministry of Profiles, and Mr. Ljuchenko himself should explain here from the rostrum the Ministry's silence on the most difficult days for the economy. It's his inability to respond to challenges. If he's not able to respond to the challenges, he has to resign. But will it be a fitting replacement? And here's a big question for all of society. We'll vote in resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u171	The word is given to the National Deputy Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u172	Kowalczuk Alexander, "Serupt of the People", Equinox. You know, I'm listening to the things the opposition is saying today and they're criticizing on the one hand, and on the other hand they're saying they're going to support the resignation, and I'm surprised again. But, in principle, they're used to this approach when they say one thing and they do something completely different. I want to point out to my colleagues that when a person resigns, it's not just because he did his job wrong or something didn't work out. These may also be personal reasons, and it may also be, respected colleagues, a case where a place is given to a better person or a professional. I really hope that in this case we get a decent replacement, together we get an evaluation. Therefore, I ask you to proceed to the vote, not to waste your time and to support Mr. Lovechenko's request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u173	Thank you. Tymoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u174	Please, Ivan Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u175	Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u176	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We are now discussing the issue of the release of the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Economics. Please tell me, this is an honorable majority, and you wouldn't be interested in hearing the minister at all, and what is happening in the economy as we have GDP growing, is it not growing that we have social protection for people who have a budget, what are the economic development points? It's all uninteresting, doesn't anyone need it? If you don't need it, we need to know. And society wants to understand what ministers do in their positions. As opposition, we do not defend any minister. You want to -- put it down, there's no questions, but I want to say objectively right now, so everyone can hear it. When we were working on the interim commission of inquiry for the detection of tax-added tax fines, when we discovered these scrolls, which were in 2019-2020 mass, at 3.5 billion per month, we twisted from the value added tax, - well, I have to say that Mr. Ljutchenko, who then led the DPS, opened up the possibility for the first time in a tax commission for the Interim Investigation Commission to get all the necessary materials for work. And those members of the TSC that are here from all the factions can confirm that. And thanks to these materials, we were able to get a little bit of a twist. Isn't that what these searches are about now, and I want to ask? So let us always be objective. But we, as the Fatherland faction, demand the report of every minister here in the rostrum, for his work, for his failures, for all the things that are now happening in the country. And let's not bring these quiet-knit cats in our bags, and then don't put them off, because it's completely wrong. That is why we do not take such an approach to the resignations of ministers when we do not even have the opportunity to hear them and ask them questions and what they do in their positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u177	Thank you. The word is given to Jurchino Jaroslav Romanovich, a faction of the political party "Golos". And then we go to the vote. Please. There will be, yes, I see, another performance after that. Then we go to the vote. Please, Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, when appointed by the First Vice - Prime Minister, as I recall, we had neither his program nor what he was going to do, what he would do as a minister of the economy, the First Vice - Prime Minister. We had no idea who this person was or how he would be, what kind of economy minister he would be. Because the economy is not tax, and it's not just an economy that's equal to fiscalization, fiscal squabbles, VAT and everything else. Economics is much broader. And first of all, what any minister of the economy who comes after this has to focus on is jobs for people and investment. Because the economy will not grow solely to make additional fiscalization, especially to small, medium-sized businesses. I want to tell you, in five months of Mr. Lovechenko's work, we haven't heard the program for big businesses, for state enterprises, or for strategic enterprises that shut down because the price of gas exceeds any possible cost, it's just going to go into space. We didn't hear a program for a small, medium-sized business that wants to understand what's going to happen to him to COVID and after COVID, which is what he's going to be able to do. We didn't hear the investor program. We didn't hear the workplace program. Nothing! There's no room! If this is how we appoint and release the first Vice-Prime Ministers, as well as the ministers of the economy, we will never have an economy. First of all, please pay attention to your colleagues so that you can read about your work done, hand over your work to the next minister, and the next minister comes and tells you what he will do, what program for each category of our citizens, business, investment, and jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u179	Thank you. And the final address on this issue today. Santa Claus Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u180	The Opposition Platform for Life faction will vote for all layoffs and will not vote for any appointments. We think the whole government has to resign. We believe that the economic course should be changed. We believe that parliamentary elections are to be held for the term, that is what society requires, but I will discover a secret that may not yet be known to the majority, that Kabmin is the highest body of executive authority that is accountable to the Supreme Council, and that is not your private office where you can set free or appoint whoever you want. Just a few months ago, when you appointed Mr. Lyubchenk, he was planning on how the Ministry of Economics would work. Where's his report? Where is the report on the wrong macroeconomic indicators that are budgeted? Where's the report on what's going on in our economy? We can't just, without a report, release a person. And this applies to all ministries. Most importantly, we can't, the government can't work without the program. What will those who come after him do? As soon as they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u181	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with articles 85 and 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal for the release from office of First Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Economy of Ukraine Alexia Mikolaiovich Lyubchenka by accepting his resignation on his application. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, take your seats. Please vote. [[13:26:02]] For the 320. Decision taken. Please make a decision on the outcome of the decision we have made with the Apparatus. And thank the Minister for his work. The next question is the release of Reznik Oleksija Juriovich from the post of Vice Prime Minister, the Minister for the Reintegration of Temporaryly Inoccupied Areas. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, article 12, paragraph 12, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be released from office of the Ministers of Ukraine. Member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, Alexei Yuriovich Reznikov, on 1 November, wrote an application for his resignation, and the relevant materials were given to you. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:27:01]] For 269 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, the National Minorities and the International Relations of Dmitri Valeriovich Lubinetz is invited to attend. Please, Dmitri Valeriyovich, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u182	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Reintegration, Depopulation of Temporaryly Occupied Territories in the Donetsk, Luhansk Region, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the City of Sevastopol, the National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting on 2 November, Mr. Zreznikov Aleksija Juriovich, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Mr. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine release Reznik's Alexi Yuriovich from office. I would also like to inform all the national deputies that only positive comments about the work were made yesterday by the national deputies who spoke. Personally, I would like to thank Alexia Yuriovich for the work we've been doing with him all this time. I'd like to say that this is probably an example of a profile committee working with a profile minister. All questions are discussed at the meeting, either by the minister or by his deputies. Together we made joint visits to the Donetsk region, Luhansk region, to the Hersonian region on the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. So thank you, Alexi Juryovich, for our work together. Thank you for coming along with me on this difficult journey. You and I have raised issues that concern both internally displaced persons, and people who live in a temporarily occupied territory have actually done a lot of work together. So thank you. We wish for success in new positions and new challenges! Thank you. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u183	Thank you, Your Honor. Please register: two, two, against, to discuss this issue. Please. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Ion's Maria Mikolayovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u184	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u185	Who? Fedina, please, Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, it's insane that ministers are freeing themselves, whether the Council is releasing them, and we don't have any reports of what they did or didn't do. And there's no way to ask directly what could be considered an absolute failure in the activity of a ministry. If this is about Mr. Reznikov and the Ministry of Reintegration, I have a lot of questions about the so-called "House" channel, which people call all over Ukraine a "bottom" channel. Why? Because the "Dom" channel, which was created to speak in occupied areas to inform us about what's going on in Ukraine's controlled territories, is to create a positive image of Ukraine, as a result of the "Dom" TV channel, we have the promotion of Stalin and Lenin's cult in the worst-case broadcasts of Soviet films. Can you please tell me the law, the decommunization, the Ukrainian position? No, they're not. What's more, it's on the House Channel that we have a demonstration of Ukraine, where Crimea is Moscow territory. And in fact, there's no sanctions, no penalties for that. So what does the Ministry of Reintegration do to cover this situation? What's the big deal? What's the big deal about "Home" TV channel advertising all over Ukraine? I'll remind you, House was supposed to only be in occupied areas, the language was going to be 50 per 50 Ukrainian and Moscow, which is why I don't understand. But the result is that now television channels throughout Ukraine in Moscow are retranslating Moscow narratives and Moscow propaganda. Therefore, the question is strategic: If only one TV channel fails, what about all the other reintegration issues in the occupied areas of Donetskina, Luhanskina, and Crimea? Amen!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u187	Sussun Inna Romanovna, the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u188	Please pass the word to Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u189	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u190	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. First of all, I wanted to thank Mr. Reznikov for not burying him personally to come to the higher legislature, not only to the people's advocates, but also to those who voted for them. And although we have, unfortunately, an unforeseeable reporting and question procedure, I would like to take this opportunity to ask Mr. Resnick's question, and I hope that the chairman will be flexible, with understanding of my proposal. I have two questions. Alexi Juryovich, you were the initiator of a bill on transitional justice. What will be his further fate as you are going to move to a different place of work? And the second question. As far as I can see, you will not be able to continue to work in the Tripartite Contact Group, which covers matters of governance, as far as possible, of the Donbas conflict. So I have a question, who will be your successor in the Tripartite Contact Group? Ruslan Alexiyovich, I hope you will respect my question and allow Alexy Yuriovich to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u191	Sergey Ivanovich, if possible, will be Mr. Kostuk of "Serve of the People". Then we'll finish, and I'll give you one minute right to the line so that we don't stretch. Costume, please. National Deputy Dmitry Sergiyovich Kostuk, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u192	Thank you. Please pass the word to Taras Tarasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u193	Taras Tarasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u194	I wanted to thank you for your work, for your fruitful cooperation with the committee. Indeed, the committee listens to the minister’s reports every time. So thanks for the job. And I ask everyone to support the resignation, and then I have hope for a new assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u195	Thank you. I'm sorry, Yuri Ivanovich Zagradnoye is still speaking, and then a brief line for Mr. Reznikov, and we move on to the vote. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u196	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u197	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u198	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the issue of reintegration, particularly the question of Donbass, is extremely relevant, but it is not done in any way. We have a set of measures to implement the Minsk Accords. This is a road map for the reintegration of Donbas into Ukraine and Ukraine into Donbas. What's done is done, let's see what points we have. We don't have anything. The question of peace is question number one, and any sociology will confirm it. But what do we have instead? Paragraph 4 is the holding of local elections. Is it? None. Next, here we go. Paragraph 11, for example, is a special status. Is it? None. Amnesty is paragraph 5. Is it? None. Paragraph 6 is the exchange of held persons. Green is personally blocking the exchange of held persons. The next point is to define the modality of direct socio-economic connections. Did they cancel the economic blockade? They didn't cancel Donbas. And last but not least: the local elections. We have a decision where we have to vote it out so that there will be elections for Ukrainian legislation for Ukrainian parties, so that there will be Ukrainian national authorities. It's not all there. So we see that the process of reintegration of Donbas in 2.5 years is a failure. And from this point of view, we will certainly vote in favour of your resignation, but we have the hope that the next candidate for your post will answer each of the paragraphs of the Minsk Treaties in order for Donbas to return to Ukraine and Ukraine to Donbas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u199	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Alexi Juryovich, I'm going to ask you very briefly, for 30 seconds literally, to provide answers, and then we're going to continue in a private chat room.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u200	Thank you so much for asking, Mr. Sergei. Dear National Deputies, the Transitional Period Act as a government submitted to the Supreme Council, is under review in a profile committee. There are good recommendations for the Venice Commission to work with. And I think this law is going to see life by voting in the session room. I'm ready to join, anyway. In the Tripartite Contact Group, I think I probably won't be participating as a member of the delegation anymore. There's the head of the delegation, Leonid Krawczuk, and the deputy of the delegation, Alexander Alexandrovich Netezko, they will continue. But the President's decision in principle is to form an updated, perhaps made up of a delegation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u201	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with articles 85 and 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to release Vice-Prime Minister – Minister of Reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine Alexija Yuriovich Resnickov by accepting his resignation on his application. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:37:48]] For 329 Decision taken. Please make a decision on the outcome of the decision we have made with the Apparatus. And thank you, Alexi Juryovich, for your fine work. Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. Let's move on. The next question is about the release of Uruski Oleg Semenovich from office as Vice Prime Minister, the Minister of Strategic Affairs. There's an offer -- no talking about it. Oh, no? Okay. From the strategic sectors of the Ukrainian industry. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, article 12, paragraph 12, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be released from office of the Ministers of Ukraine. Member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister – Minister for Strategic Industry Affairs of Ukraine Oleg Seminovich Urussky wrote his resignation application on November 1. The right materials are given to you. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:38:52]] For 254 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. I would like to invite the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Development of Dmitry Andriyovich Nataluh. In two minutes, please, Dmitri Andrievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u202	Thank you. Colleagues, let's face it, the reform of the strategic sector has matured a long time ago, and we actually had an industry in the country that was an orphan for a while. In the Ministry of Economics, there was a vocation, let's say, not even a vocation, past leadership, there was no place for it, and there was no ministry of its own. And so it was decided, for me, that it was absolutely right to create a new appropriate ministry of strategic industries. The question was that the ministry’s leadership had, unfortunately, left it to the best. Nine months ago, colleagues, I remind you, in this very room almost the same place, I made a public announcement that I was starting a convention of signatures. One hundred colleagues, then, supported this process, but unfortunately, we only make this decision today. Why? Because we've wasted a lot of time. Because during these nine months, we have never had a defence purchase reform. We have Schroedinger's defense order, that is, it's like there's a prolongation of previous contracts, but there's no defense order on the facts. This is the seventh year of war, I'll remind you. We still don't have an adequate corporate Ucrobornprom where 118 strategic defence companies -- there's still no clear strategy for transformation and capitalization. We have no restoration of the space industry, although we and the committee began the process of launching a satellite in Ukraine as early as March of this year. To date, even this story has failed this year, despite the direct commission of the President. We don't have incentives for high-tech industries, because, I just wanted to let you know, colleagues, that the development of Kevlar armor and the construction of Tesla's first factory was funded by the United States government. Did you hear anything about the Ukrainian government funding anything high-tech in the strategic industry? Therefore, the committee decided to grant the application.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, against, to discuss this issue. Please, National Deputy Ariev Vladimir Igorovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u204	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u205	Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u206	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In fact, how could it not be understood for what merit, for what qualities, for which programs, for which vision you appoint completely random people who are unable to raise a branch, to what or other positions, especially to this vice - Prime Minister’s and ministerial office, we do not understand why these ministers are the only ones you are trying to dismiss right now. This seems like a game of Fifteens at the country level to distract us from the failure of your support at the level of society, from the problems our citizens face each day. And that's how you're trying to see the violent activity that you're trying to distract society. We've been standing up for the resignation of the entire government for a long time, and you've decided to release a third of it today. In fact, the Zelensky government has long turned into such a puppet theater with the right to sign, with puppeteers sitting on the Bank, who have no responsibility for the decisions they bring down. This is how we, gentlemen, have a parliamentary-presidential republic: without real accountability to Parliament, without questions from parliamentarians, without reports from government officials, without our adherence to the Constitution. So in fact, by observing all of this, we can only say that you can report to the President: you've already built a kind of rigid presidential republic contrary to the Constitution. And the President is afraid to confess to this electorate and is playing such a good king and bad fights. So go with God, perhaps after your resignation, and tell about the secret program of government and the secret plan of transformation of a country that is presented exclusively for some reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u207	Please, Tistik Rostislav Jaroslavovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u208	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, please pass the word to Natalusi Dmitry Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u209	Dmitri Andriovich Nataluha.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u210	Thank you, colleagues. I'd just like to do it again, I haven't been able to finish, because the committee at its meeting has already decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that Urui Oleg Semenovich be released from office, according to his statement. And not least, because one of the tools that can really support strategic industries and strategic industries is, was and remains a localization -- a localization of production that will enable the Ukrainian industry to effectively fight import analogues. And localization is primarily about strategic areas. And in this almost a year, as far as Mr. Vice - Prime Minister was concerned, unfortunately no adequate step has been taken in the area of localization for strategic sectors. So I have everything to report, and I have a wish for the following candidates to listen to the reasons for the release and to take up all the problems that have been reported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u211	Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. Please, the next Czymbaluk Mikhailovich, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u212	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to a colleague at the Wadima Yvchenk faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u213	Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u214	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, respect for Parliament begins, especially when deputies begin to respect themselves. Should we not invite and ask Mr. Urussky today, and why do we have a decline in manufacturing? Should we not ask Mr. Urussky, and why are banks lending only 5 percent of the investment projects that go to Ukraine today? Shouldn't we ask why a lot of space programs have been broken up on a satellite? And what cooperation with the Prime Minister, who has nothing to do with the development of industry in Ukraine? Where is our voice, colleagues, in the localization government? This is our job with you to ask what the government is doing, including for localization. There's no one here but Nataluha, no one's talking about localization, no one's talking about the development of industrial production in Ukraine, and this, colleagues, is true. And when ministers sit here and answer our questions with you, then you and I have a complex understanding of why and what reasons for liberation. Colleagues, I want to say, when you step over those guidelines is possible either because of the pressure, or because of, sorry, decisions made that are not made in the Supreme Council, but somewhere in the Bank, only then will we be able to call ourselves parliament, respect ourselves, and then we will be respected by others. We'll vote in resignation. But it is worth talking about the work of the entire government of Ukraine, and not only in industry, but also in energy, including energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u215	Thank you. Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u216	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues! The issue of resignation of nearly a quarter of the government is under consideration. Let's respect ourselves. Where's the Prime Minister? Does he still have the fate of five ministers? This is primarily disrespect for the greatness, and for the Supreme Council as a whole, and for the honorable leadership of the Supreme Council. I would like to point out that there were only two applications for resignation -- the Minister of Ecology and the Deputy Prime Minister of Reznikov. Well, the rest is their right to come, not to come, but the fact that there is no Prime Minister, it demeans the Supreme Council as an institution and you and me as Ukrainian national deputies, primarily the majority. You know, there's nothing to talk about industry here because it's not growing, it's getting a little renewed, and there's still a lot to do to get it back to the 13th year level. There's objective COVID, we understand all of this, but now we're talking about the responsibility of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister, because he's not being filmed for fact, not for work or absence of work, but for internal disputes. You're fighting, you're biting each other, and you're hurting the Ukrainians. What's going on now? And this directly applies to industry. We're looking at a dispute between Minenergo, who's accusing the DTC of having an emergency power supply from Belarus and Slovakia, and the DTC is accusing Minenergo of not having coal and they're helping them with their powers. I think we should invite the Energy Minister tomorrow, with the consent of inviting the DCI leadership, and let them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u217	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Thank you. Dear colleagues, one more minute, please, Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich -- and then we'll go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u218	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. First of all, dear colleagues, a year ago the Supreme Council passed a sufficiently progressive Law on the Defense of Purchasing, which, unfortunately, never worked. Why, the answer is very simple. During the year – attention – the year! - The Ministry of Strategic Industry has not been able to write an appropriate regulatory base, which has effectively put the defense of procurement at risk. We have today not the Defense of Procurement Act, but in fact the State Defense Order Act, which was buried on January 1st of this year. And it acts on the basis of a decree of Kabmin, which is contrary to the law. One second. At least two decisions of the National Security Council included the creation of a Defense Technology Agency. It wasn't created. And the third. It is not only the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Strategic Affairs who is responsible for the breakdown of the defense order but the whole of Kabmin, because it is a function that has been imposed on the government. You don't have to forget that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u219	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. The discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with articles 85 and 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, have put to the vote the proposal to resign from the post of Deputy Prime Minister – Minister for Strategic Industry Affairs of Ukraine Oleg Semenovich Urussky by accepting his resignation on his application. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare. Please vote. [[13:51:38]] For 342 Decision taken. I'm asking the profile committee, along with the Apparatus, to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision we've made. And the final question that we will be able to consider today is the release of Taran Andrija Vasilovich from Ukraine's post as Defence Minister. Dear colleagues, since I can see that there's time at the border, so I'm automatically going to continue for 15 minutes, but until the end of this question. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, article 12, paragraph 12, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be released from office of the Ministers of Ukraine. A member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ukrainian Defence Minister Andriy Vasilovich Taran, wrote a statement of resignation. The right materials are given to you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[13:52:43]] For 257 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Then let us move on to the question. The head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is invited to attend. In 2 minutes. Please, Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u220	Honorary colleagues, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Stefanchuk, the Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence at its meeting on 3 November 2021, reviewed the statement by Ukrainian Defence Minister Taran Andrija Vasilovich on his resignation from office. As a result of the review of the application for the resignation of Ukrainian Defence Minister Taran Andrija Vasilovich from office, following the provision of section 12 of the first article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept the resignation of Ukrainian Defence Minister Taran Andrija Vasilovich from office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u221	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, against this question. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u222	Samantha Bobrowski, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u223	Please, Samantha Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u224	Samantha Bobrowski, Justice Union. In fact, it's very sad that there is no man here, an officer, he thinks, a defence minister who should be here and should really or not be the only one to report for what has been done in the past year and a half. I think the area of defense is, I'm sure, extremely important and priority, and strategic in order to find time and listen today to what has been done over the past year and a half. And I want to say and share. For over a year, I have been speaking from this rostrum, talking about what is happening in the area of feeding the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which liver and worms or which products are being imported. Moreover, in April the Committee on Security and Defence expressed its position clearly on Taran and on his deputy, Halimon, who was quickly removed from office and appointed as Taran’s permanent adviser, who last week was suspected of trying to steal 700 million dollars of government funds. Why is there no explanation here today, on this rostrum, in front of all of us? I have a logical question: is it a great desire to change it, that we don't want to discuss it? Next. In a year and a half, zero new military objects, zero repairs, zero new bricks at least in any one. Either the barracks or the stadium or any military facility. Why do you have to look for the minimum money to eat boys in dining rooms and girls instead of tents in 40 degrees Fahrenheit [40 ° C] and minus 20 degrees Fahrenheit [20 ° C]? A logical question? Who needs to answer these questions, Mr. Reznikov, who's going to be in the system for about a year or a half? You know, I'm ashamed that we're not listening today and that Taran is not looking us in the eye today. We will definitely vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u225	Thank you. Please, Bezugla Mariana Volodymyr, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u226	Colleagues, the question of the liberation of Andrew Taran is about the consequences of civil democratic control. And this is about the impact of the active activities of the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee on the exercise of such supervision and control. Those laws that were defined as priorities, namely the Law on the Defence of Procurement, on the actual transformation of the state defence order into the modern plan of defence purchases, were constant priorities, a constant subject of supervision of how this is done. And of course, on the committee, and I have, in particular, a warning, but let's move on. In his statement of release, Andrew Taran wrote, as a man of war, no, the civil secretary of defense, according to the principles and standards of NATO that we are moving towards. Now is the new dynamic team of the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, time to come to the new, normal, civilian Ministry of Defense. To that end, the committee worked on a draft law. And I have the question that no faction has made such legislative changes in previous parliamentary calls, nor now. And to do that, we've developed surveillance tools, so we're shaping, changing the team at the Ministry of Defense. Let's move on and control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u227	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I just want to remind you that I have continued this session until the end of this matter. I give the floor to Fedina Sofia Romanovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u228	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u229	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u230	Dear Ukrainians, our political team thanks you for building a new Ukrainian army with each of you from the 14th to the 19th. Zelensky began his work by taking our Armed Forces of Ukraine all over the front line, shaving it. Similarly, he eliminated all reforms along with Taran. We have many questions for Mr. Taran. And first of all, did you betray our officers when you signed your signature under the operation "vagnerians," and now you're not talking about it? Will you tell the truth after your resignation? We have a lot of questions to ask you because we have a strategic disaster. And tomorrow there will be nothing to fight. We have a 21st year fuel purchase today, in November, we have a fuel disaster. We have a corrupt food scandal. We started and made this food reform, and today the military is eating worms. And you're in charge of this, along with your Supreme Commander. We're actually in a frame disaster. Because Taran, who will now be the third secretary of defense in the time of Zelensky, has only established a relationship and put people in positions who were not at war in the 13th year, and, you know, required soldiers to let them build them. In fact, we today have a history of corruption with military towns and with the land of the Ministry of Defense. And where are the law enforcement authorities? We have a systematic failure to execute a defense order. We're blocking the purchase of really technology and there's no, really, new unit of military technology. And at this year’s parade, all the equipment was released or repaired during the time of High Commandant Dustenk. And in fact, we demand that today, if there is no Secretary of Defense report here. Do you know what he writes in his statement? That he's ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u231	The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life." Then there's Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, and we're going to the vote. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u232	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I have determined what is being accused of by the Minister of Defense so far: corruption in the provision of military supplies, failure of defence orders, theft of the property of the Ministry and our military associations. And please tell me, how long did it take you to see all of this? The failure of the defense order was a problem last year. This year again. Would you please tell me the reason for something else? Once again, someone had to settle accounts, as they say. We remember how Taran won the fight against the previous Genstab leader. The new head of Genstaba has already defeated Taran. So tell people the truth that you are not. What you're not interested in is corruption, you're probably taking part in it, that's your income, that's the envelopes that all journalists are talking about right now and you're already talking about. I mean, you're home. But the question is: Should personal opposition shake the whole country? And about Lovechenko, I'm going back, well, isn't this the secret that the problem wasn't in the indicators because you couldn't make the indicators, and the only problem was that he started claiming to be Prime Minister and Schmigal was technically failing him? I've seen this a lot, but, you know, what are the totals? Then all the power melts. So I propose and I demand that you do not suffer, take your Smigal, who has ignored you today, and retire all together, and the sooner the better for you and for the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u233	The word is given to National Deputy Rudik Sergio Jaroslavovich, then to Valentin Nastavajchenko, and then to the decision - making process. Please, Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, do you want to know what's going on in the Ukrainian Armed Forces? Sign the contract for the first line, attend the congregations each year, and learn what is being fed in the army, learn how many new objects are being built in the army, and learn how military equipment is being used and used by our military. I did it in the past vocation, I did it in this vocation, and so I know what I'm talking about. But it is enough not even to be an officer of the reserve, but simply to be a brave man and see seven years of war in the center of the Empress 25 hectares of the military town fall apart, all seven years of war! And no defence minister in this state has struck a finger to the finger to make it combatable and teach our military or prepare for defense. So when I take this opportunity, I turn to the future minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u235	Welcome to the statement of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Nastawajchenka Valentina Alexandrovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland. And then we move on to making a decision. Please, Valentin Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u236	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, distinguished our defenders, the Armed Forces of Ukraine! I think we think it's a huge disrespect for the country, for you, for our defenders, when you don't hear the Secretary of Defense's report, you don't understand why they're changing the Ministry of Defense's leadership, especially what the new Secretary of Defense is going to do during the war, when you're frozen in earthlings, in trenches. Where are the security modules produced in neighboring cities: Dniper, Zaporozhye, and Kharkiv? Why don't you have one, not one? Why do you, the combatants, who know how to protect the country, have nothing to do with the appointment of a leader, a minister of defense? Why so? Why is it so unfair? This is wrong, and this is wrong for both the Armed Forces and the entire country. That's not the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-03-m0.u237	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let us move on to making a decision. In accordance with articles 85 and 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal for the exemption of Ukrainian Defence Minister Andrija Vasilovich Tarana by accepting his resignation on his application. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:05:48]] For 341 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the profile committee, along with the Apparatus, to rule on the consequences of the decision we've made. As we agreed, the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
