ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media reps! I'm glad to see you all in the hall. Please prepare for registration. I'm reminding you that registration is taking place. As always, I remind you, registration takes place by clicking on the green button, it's the first one on the left. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:05:58]] There are 174 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, we have two nouns. This is Alexander Anatolyevich Danuza. Congratulations! I can't see. [[Applause]] And Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko. [[Applause]] Congratulations on your birthday! Success, strength, best of all, both personally and from colleagues. He just came to welcome you. Hello! Dear colleagues, we're about to move on to the government's hour of questioning. Today, the Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal (please welcome) and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, on Friday at 10 a.m., we have an hour of questions to the Government. Now I'm going to propose to Dennis Anatoliyovich: we're going to report to the Minister of Social Policy, after that question and the answer to it, then the question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there is a position agreed upon by all factions. Now, from 10 to 11 we have an hour of questions to the government. Then 30 minutes to read the queries. After that, we work without interruption until 1:00 and close the session. I remind everyone that the session is closed today. Is there no objection? Thank you. And, dear colleagues, today is the anniversary of the tragedy that took place under the Kruts. I now propose to honor the moment of silence of all those who have given their lives for Ukraine. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Marina Volodymyrna Lazebna, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u2	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! Ukraine's Social Services Act has been in operation for a year since 2020. Its main purpose is to ensure that everyone has unimpeded access to quality social services at their place of residence, while the second, services should be of guaranteed scope and quality. In line with this law and the reform of decentralization, the community itself has become a centre that reveals people in need of social services, assesses their needs, provides them with provision and funding. The central role of the State is to set rules, to set standards of guaranteed scope and quality of services, to set requirements for service providers, to set standards of compensation and to pay for the provision of social services. And the fourth is to put in place controls and accountability mechanisms for the enforcement of legislation. Therefore, those who provide for the organization and the provision of services must comply with these rules. What's done? During 2020, the government adopted the necessary regulatory framework to regulate all key steps in the provision of services, from identifying and assessing the needs of people to the quality of specific services. 23 services have already been standardized. These are the ones who feel the most need. What kind of services are these? At home and day care, 800,000 people will receive the service. Natural aid is given to 400,000 people. Social adaptation is 300,000 people. Social support for families in difficult circumstances — almost 40,000 families. Stationary care is more than 60,000 people. In order for a person to have information about where a service can be obtained at their place of residence, from January 2020 we began to form a register of social service providers in a test mode. Today, it contains information about almost 3,000 social service providers, of which more than 2,000 are communal property, 700 are private providers. Information about them as an interactive map is available on the website of the University of Minnesota. Two days ago, in the government, we confirmed the order of the register and its completion. We also gave instructions to the authorities on how to work with registers and service providers. I want to stress that our priority is to give a person a place to live, not a place to live. Today, more than 1 million people in Ukraine receive care without changing their place of residence, that is, at home. If care services are provided by relatives, we recognize that it is a social work, it is paid, and care is included in the family’s insurance. Another category of people is almost 100,000 citizens who are being cared for in stationary institutions. Promoting their income, increasing their material security, is a priority part of the policy of supporting people of important age and people with disabilities. This year, despite the pandemic, and last year, by the way, the government focused on increasing the income of pensioners, most of them those in need of care. What the government has done. First. Retirement payments have been increased for the elderly. For 500 dollars a month, we give people 80 plus, from July of this year, 400 dollars a month will be given to people 75 plus, next year, a program for people 70 plus. By doing so, we increase by almost 50 percent the minimum pension payments for these categories of people. The other one. We've increased the retirement allowance for single pensioners 80 plus. This supplement now accounts for 40 percent of the living minimum for those who have lost their jobs. The people who applied for this allowance at the end of last year received one payment from January 1, 2020. Third. There has been an increase in compensation for people who provide social services without entrepreneurship on a non-professional basis. As a result, the maximum amount of compensation increased from 15 percent of the subsistence minimum to 100 percent of the subsistence minimum. Four. It is important that for all those who care for the sick — more than a million — the State pays the insurance premiums, that is, the period of care is part of the insurance system and, accordingly, they are entitled to a pension. Fifth. On Wednesday, important bills were approved by the government, which we also proposed to increase payments for persons with disabilities. We want this allowance to be the minimum wage, this will be substantial support for more than 60,000 people. And our second government bill, our government initiative, we propose to set a legal date for annual pension indexation, to return pension indexation to those categories in which this right has been revoked since 2017. These are important steps, but surely more work is ahead. As a result of the year's work with the Social Services Act, we've identified three major groups of problems. The first is the lack of community readiness. Most do not exercise their authority to organize social services for various reasons. Part of this work is not prepared, others are not provided with technology, with proper professional skills, and part simply does not pay attention to this issue. Regrettably, in connection with the restructuring of the district level and contrary to existing legislation, social services providers operating in the area of the reorganized area are also being eliminated. We're already seeing that social services centers, territorial social services centers are being eliminated. And in this context, I want to remind you that, in accordance with the Social Services Act, the provision of services is organized and provided by communities. So I have a request to the community leaders to review their policies and to critically assess the needs of their citizens in basic social services. The second problem is the lack of informational transparency of the social service providers market. The existing mechanism for the registration of social service providers has proved insufficient in the Ministry of Social Policy's report through district government administrations. In places where such facilities are not detected, people do not actually have complete information about where they can look for a service or serve a service provider and their service to a quality standard. For example, 91 municipal and 42 private institutions have been reported to the social service providers’ register for social services of elderly citizens to date. Information on private institutions was provided by 14 district government administrations and the Kyiv City State Administration. And there's a question for the other ten regions: there are no private institutions in your territory. And that's why we've just begun to test the existence of such facilities in all areas. The third problem is the lack of effective mechanisms to monitor compliance by social service providers with the criteria of activity and the standards of service, as well as mechanisms to hold them accountable for non-compliance. Despite the fact that the criteria for social service providers are clearly defined, they are available in the subject of licensing, such as fire safety, building standards, food quality, and in practice we see that they are not being observed. In situations where damage has already been caused, the Master’s Code, the Administrative Code, or the Criminal Code, is clearly not sufficient. The need to solve these problems as soon as possible is highlighted by the terrible tragedy that occurred in Kharkiv, which resulted in the death of 16 people. And I think today, apart from the compassion of the dead, we all -- the legislative and executive authorities, the central and the local -- we have to apologize for what is still possible. For not being on the map of the city, this house had no documents for entry into service, for there was a boarding house for elderly people who had not been included in the register of social services providers, who did not meet the requirements for providers of such services, and certainly did not meet the standards for the provision of such services. We have to apologize for the fact that it is still possible for such a facility to work for several years, of course the local authorities knew about it, because it is known that the elderly died there for natural reasons, and the only source of information about this facility is its advertising. What needs to be done. First, I'll say it specifically on the tragedy in Kharkiv, and then I'll move on to strategic things. The government organized the work of district government administrations and DSSs to identify and verify the activities of similar institutions in the areas. The Ministry of Social Policy has issued a recommendation and an algorithm to carry out checks by the Departments of Social Protection on the compliance of identified subjects with the criteria for the activities of social service providers approved in the Government Regulation of 3 March 2020 No185. This work is currently taking place in all regions of Ukraine. Monitoring is carried out by the National Social Service. The results of the test and conclusions will be published in the near future. But I already want to give you operational data. By the end of the day yesterday, work had been done to identify and verify the social services of the nonstate sector in 20 areas and the city of Kiev. We have not yet received information: Zacarpatska, Zaporizka, Kyivska, and Odessa. But in the areas where we already see them, these non-state providers of social services have been checked, and they have been found to be 334. The number of people living in such facilities is 1,000 30 people. The strategic direction of work is most important. First. Complete the standardization of guaranteed scope and quality of social services. The other one. Develop approaches to a combination of health and social services within a single facility that provides services for day-to-day living. Third. Ensure the effective functioning of the public-private partnership mechanisms in the social service providers market. We have to admit that there is a market for the provision of social services by private broadcasters. It's now in the vast majority of the shadows, it needs to be brought out into light, it needs to be made transparent, there's reliable information about it in consumers. Because people need it, and it's very good for the state. Four. We need to ensure market regulation because it has a significant impact on human health and life. The State must support the development of social services by good-faith providers who adhere to the standards of activity and ensure the quality of the provision of services. The State should also have effective mechanisms to identify and distance from the provision of services to unscrupulous donors and to bring them to account. In summary, I want to say that quality and affordable services for everyone are possible when a State sets standards of service, develops and regulates markets for such services, and the consumer has full and reliable information about them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u3	Thank you. Please sign up for questions from MPs and groups to ministers. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u5	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u6	Good afternoon! Please tell me that we recently had a meeting of the Committee of Social Policy, and there was a bill that was being considered to finally end the injustice against pensioners throughout the country and to put in place a minimum pension that is being paid to people today at the level of the actual subsistence minimum. The real real cost of living today is about 3,000,400 dollars, and some retirees are now paid a pension of as much as 800, 1,000, 900 dollars, which is about 60 percent of the country's pension. Please tell me how long this is going to take, how long this injustice is going to take. Previous governments, previous authorities have tried to pay people no less a pension than a real standard of living. And now they want to move away from the minimum level of actual living. What do you plan on doing in this case? And how will people's pensions be counted?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u7	Thank you for asking. I'm aware of all the pension problems of our pensioners. Believe me, I know about the proportions of pensions between the smallest and the largest. I'm now monitoring how much of the pension was affected by what was cancelled by 1 percent when there were 1.35 insurance years ago, and now there's one. Now I know how the non-retired pensioners were affected. There was no indexation. And we also know about the subsistence minimum that is today in the State Budget Act, and it's really a computational amount. We did a great job with the Ministry, and two days ago, a large package of legislative initiatives was approved in the government to organize a minimum-of-living system. You have to change the methodology, you have to say what social standards are meant to meet that real minimum guaranteed subsistence minimum, everything else — allowances, promotions, fines, commitment to other computational values. But what's important to me is that when our government came, it was up to the limit of 2,000 dollars, and this is actually the livelihood, the pensioners were 4 million. These steps, which were followed by government policies last year, left 1.9 million pensioners there. It's also critical to me, it's shameful, and I take it very painfully. But pensioners 80 plus, they have the smallest payoff of 2,600. Pensioners 70 plus is the smallest payment of 2.5 thousand dollars. And we don't pay less than 2100 full-time. In addition, in the near future (we are now finishing work on the preparation of the Pension Fund budget) we will present a project on pension indexation in 2021. And there will certainly be promotions for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u8	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u9	Good afternoon! Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Dear Marina Volodymyrna, next question to you. Social protection agencies under former district government administrations are being reformed. There are significant cuts in social workers, sometimes up to 50 percent. These functions should be transferred to unified territorial communities, but there is no resources in the communities. These expenditures were not foreseen in the local budgets. How is this going to be solved: this is going to be a separate subsidy, somehow in a different way? The national service that is to be responsible did not even work. Every day, a huge number of people need social services — people with disabilities, older ones. As the ministry sees a way out of this situation, because there's a lot of questions, especially for major MPs. For example, in Poltavska, I am constantly asked these questions by both the employees and the heads of these social services and the district department. So how do we solve this question? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u10	Thank you, Your Honor. This is really such a serious problem because at the end of the year a law was passed, and today there is a reorganization of the district level. The Prime Minister has commissioned the heads of State administrations to take into account the fact that the number of staff members in the social protection offices has been sufficient to carry out all social programmes. That's the first one. We're about to end, we're looking at a situation that's across the country, how much each region reduces the state of social workers in district level administrations. Regarding the National Social Service. December 24 The National Social Service has been working, the central apparatus is now fully in charge of its authority and functions, the central apparatus. The territorial authorities, they're also defined in the government's decision, they're created, but they need funds, they need to be formed at the regional level and they need to be set up and they need to start with a fully-fledged social protection management vertical. You asked -- when, I would really like this to happen, for example, in the second quarter of this year. Of course, there are still many problems to start a full - time new ministry on the spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u11	Ananchenko Mikhailo Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u12	Please pass on the word Grishni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u13	The sin of Julia Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u14	Thank you. Julia Grishin, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear Marina Volodymyrna, please tell us that the Social Services Act provides for the opening of social services centres, including day care. These are centers that are very much needed by individual population categories in Ukraine. There people can also receive social rehabilitation services, social adjustment for their health, and so forth. We know that unfortunately, we have quite a number of pensioners who are lonely and need care, and therefore, really, these centers are very important. So please tell us how many of these centers and their branches have been opened during this last year in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u15	I don't have the numbers on my hands right now, but believe me, we have a situation that was in the 20th year, and we're monitoring today how these institutions that were once financed from the district level, how they are now either going to the community balance sheet, or they're taking the district budget to finance them. So I'm definitely going to give you this information separately by the number of establishments, whether they're reducing it or if they're planning to develop it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u16	Batenko Taras Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u17	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Irina Konstankevitch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u18	Please, Irina Konstanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u19	Madam Minister, thank you for your information. But at the same time, I want to turn to you from the problem that 2021 is the year of the 35th anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy. And the issue of the Chernobyl people -- especially the liquidators, and the nutrition of the Chernobyl children -- is a tough one, because 80 percent of the benefits that were provided for in the legislation are not being implemented. So my question is, can you please say in the context of decentralization, how do you see these benefits being done? What will be passed on to OTG? And will they follow your government in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u20	Thank you, madame national MP. We had a meeting with you, and you and I discussed feeding the children of the Chernobyl family in schools. And you and I have decided that we need to understand who's going to run these tenders? Whether it's district government or we're going to transfer it to the community. Because the budget is set up because it's a social program and it's a social program. We're finalizing this approach. And as we agreed with you, we'll make a meeting and communicate with you. And what I'm saying about the Chernobyls in general is that the government has recently supported a bill that says that all liquidators, black people with disabilities, we'd like to set up those pension increases for them, as it's now done for the liquidators, the Chernobyls -- the military. That's why such a bill is now in the Supreme Council. Please support him. And we will certainly do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u21	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Kacny.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u23	Duck Alexander Stalinoenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u24	Marina Volodymyrna, yesterday we heard a performance by the Energy Minister, who announced to us the idea of creating electricity tariffs with no benefits up to 100 kilowatts. And he stressed that it's not energy that protects people, it's the Ministry of Social Protection. Do you agree? And are you prepared to help those who use electricity this year, hundreds of thousands of people in the front zone, there's no gas and there's no firepower, either, because it's all replaced? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u25	Thank you for asking. The most topical questions people and journalists and experts and national MPs are addressing. In government, we decided how to compensate certain categories of electricity consumers for the cancellation of the tax rate. We've decided that this is going to be three categories. It's going to be a population where housing is equipped with electric power plants, it's going to be the population where centralized heating and buildings are not gassed, and the third most important category for us is children's homes, foster families and large families. But if such compensation is introduced for the first two categories for the heating season, for the social category we are also improving the housing grant program in parallel. What we offer these people. First, we've already fixed it in the regulation, we've determined that for children's homes of the family type, the social standard of housing will be set in the size of the heating area of the living room, that is, there will be no restriction. The other one. We remove restrictions on the application of social electricity standards that are used for the household needs of many families, family - type children’s homes, and foster families, as well as families with three or more children, taking into account that if care or care is provided for them. And the third point is set out in this regulation. We will not take into account the income of children raised in these family - type children’s homes in large - scale and foster families. This is already a decision-making project, and now there's a discussion about the source, but. Yes, of course. This program will be implemented because it is promised to humans.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u26	Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyevna, the ultimate question. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u27	Madam Minister, I wanted to ask you a question about the reform of the institutional surveillance system of children, whose strategy was developed in 2017, is approved, and now there is an order on your website that is actually destroying this reform. I want to remind you that there are 106 thousand children in these homes, in boarding schools, in boarding schools, in different kinds of specialized schools right now. According to statistics and research, only 1 percent of these children can receive higher education, and only 10 percent of them are socialized. Please tell us why you are stopping such important reform and hurting the souls of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u28	Thank you, madame national MP. You've distorted the situation a little bit because the Ministry for Deinstitutionalization Reform, the Ministry for the Child Being in the Family, and we're acting in the best interests of the child. The arrangement you are talking about applies only to special schools for children with limited capabilities. That is, in the expected strategy, the trend is changing when reform takes place in this very important category. But if this reform is causing a lot of resonance today, and we've already completed the national discussion of the strategy itself, not this specific component in special schools for children with disabilities, but throughout the strategy, and believe me, we need to modernize it, see what is going on critically, how effective it is today and move it forward. This reform is the priority of the ministry, and there are no.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u29	Please don't yell at each other. Please don't interrupt. Please continue. Everything? Thank you. Question time's up. Marina Volodymyrna, please sit in the cabinet bed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Time is up to 20 minutes. Questions from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Urban Anatoly Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u31	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u32	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! The Minister of Social Policy has already partly answered questions about which categories of electricity users will benefit from the increase in tariffs. But all of us conscious people have a simple question: Why? You've made a decision in the government that we've been waiting for in the hall, and perhaps today, I understand that you've realized that you're not going to vote, that you haven't put it out to pay for the last quarter of 2021 for January. And what's going to happen in the fourth quarter of 2021, given the situation that we have in the financial market, the socio-economic situation. About political and COVID-19, I'm already silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u33	Thank you, Your Honor. So now there's a bill in Parliament for compensation to the population that's electro-fired. He passed the budget committee accordingly, and I will ask and join the ad hoc procedure today to consider him if possible. This bill will provide an opportunity to compensate for the benefits from the corresponding grant article, which was allocated 36.6 billion dollars this year. This amount is calculated enough to pay all the benefits and subsidies that people will need this year. This sum takes into account all the calculations. Last year we had an economy under "Ploughs and Subsidies" of about 5 billion dollars, so this year it's supposed to be enough. If we see the results of the first half of the year that the sum can be calculatedly insufficient in the last months of the year, of course, we will go to Parliament, we will make proposals on the source of this article's funding, we will complete it, and all the State's obligations on benefits and subsidies to people will be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u34	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u35	Please pass the word to Pipi Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u36	Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u37	Mr. Dennis, good afternoon! I'm asking all the high school students, in particular, to make up for the rumors that the pro-Russian channels are spreading, including News, that in the 10-11th grade this year, not all of them will be able to go. Tell me, please, and explain whether there will be a transformation of schools, and that the flights will only be fully opened in 2027, and make sure that everyone who wants to learn in the 10-11th grade of this, like all the years to come, can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u38	Thank you. I'm undoing all the rumors that are spreading Russian television channels. And I give the word to the Minister of Education and Science to give specific answers to the questions that you have heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u39	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the people. Indeed, Russian, pro - Russian channels spread many rumors that not all schoolchildren will be able to attend the 10th, 11th, and 12th classes in the senior school. Today there is fruitful work with the Supreme Council Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation. The basic criteria for schoolchildren are quality and accessibility. And in this context, some of the points that need to be corrected in the Law on Total General Secondary Education are. But every child who yearns to learn in the 10, 11, 12 classes will be taught in the 10, 11, 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u40	Please, National Deputy Bullach Government Valentinovna, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u41	Thank you for being able to ask questions. I have a really intense reaction to Mrs. Minister of Social Policy's report, Mrs. Lazebnay. You're saying that you've halted the reform of deinstitutionalization of children only with special needs. No, you've halted the reform of deinstitutionalization and of the child's homes. Since this year, children under the age of three, newborn children, should not be allowed to enter institutions of inliberation on the Internet, and you have postponed that decision. Today, all of us talk about our love for Ukraine. Do we love Ukrainians who enter their children’s homes after they are born, and they will come if your initiative is accepted? And by the age of 26, newborn children, that's what happened, their parents can't do their parenting functions for different reasons, but the state doesn't want them to create the kind of family education that's so necessary for a person in the first three years of their lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u42	I'd like to ask Marina Volodymyr's Lazebna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. One context: we didn't stop anything, we didn't make decisions, they were projects. By the way, the project that you're all talking about today is designed to execute the Education Committee, the hearings that fit. And today we invite you, as well as other deputies, to the discussion, please. A little distorted information, let's meet, and we'll show you the whole situation that is and look at it from the other side. I invite you just to cooperate.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u44	Please, we still have two questions from Fatherland, give Julia Volodymyrna two minutes. First of all, Kachura? Excuse me. Alexander Anatoliyovich Kachura, faction of the political party "Slut of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u45	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear Prime Minister, please tell me, 1 thousand 800 dollars in pension, you have to pay 2 thousand dollars for the payment, and you have to buy medicine, you have to buy food. How Can I Live? Next question about the minimum of living. It's not a cost-effective minimum of life, it's a livelihood minimum of survival. The Ministry of Social Policy published a report indicating that the real subsistence minimum is not less than 4,000 bracelets 100 — now 100 percent less. When social justice is restored, and all the same as we agreed with you before, will our bill to increase the living minimum to 40 percent of the average wage, well, about 4 thousand and 100 dollars? What does the government do now? Thank you for your sincere response.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u46	Regarding the people of unprotected or vulnerable categories, there is a subsidy program, we said today, 36.6 billion dollars is allocated this year. The Ministry of Social Policy has made it as easy as possible to obtain such subsidies. Accordingly, all citizens in need of assistance from the State can turn to the State in very short periods of time for simple procedures to receive support from the State. That's the first one. The other one. Regarding the minimum of living. You're absolutely right, and we, together with the President of Ukraine, with the "Serial of the People" faction, with the "Serve of the People" party, are undergoing significant reforms today in the reform of the approach to creating a living minimum in Ukraine in order to make it fair, responding really to the subsistence minimum that allows people to live. And it's a tough reform, it's in the agenda of the day-to-day profiling committee, it's in the order of the day-to-day relevant ministry, and virtually every week there's a consultation, a meeting, a package of drafts on this subject. And I'm sure this year we're going to take the appropriate steps to correct how we're going to make a living minimum in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u47	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u48	Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like you to answer these questions yourself. First question. Please tell us, knowing that there is sufficient natural gas in the gas repositories, which is cheap in connection with the fact that it was attached to the repository when the lowest price for gas was available. You said 28 billion is hooked. The average price, we've calculated, in the vaults is 2.6 bracelets per cubic meter. Please tell me, why did you give your decision to the people to set 7 dollars per cubic meter? Where did you get those prizes? Why don't you give up the gas from the gas repositories for yourself? And the second. You know very well that NAC Naftogaz's government audit has found the purposeless use of money for 225 billion. Why are you offering Vitrenk's chief manager Naftogaz as your first deputy?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u49	So it's about the gas in the vaults. For today, shelters are really filled. Unfortunately, we have talked about this several times and, in particular, in the Parliamentary Hall, about the gas being pumped into the shelter at the most expensive prices when Ukraine was preparing for a gas war. After that summer, when the shelters were full and the price was the lowest, again, unfortunately, an extremely small volume at a low price was put there. So the average price in shelters, the average cost of hooking up in shelters, is unfortunately high. Regarding the limit, the upper limit of the market price for gas of 6 rubles of 99 pcs. The decision was made on the basis of January’s market prices, it was the lowest market price for gas in January months, and thus the upper limit on February and March was adopted. Today, companies published their prices in February. And in many companies, the lowest price is $6,86. And in fact, all the gas prices were offered from 6.99 and below. These are market prices in the market and this is a stock market. Regarding State audit. It was completed last year. All materials are transferred to the Ukrainian Security Service for investigation. As a result of these investigations, this audit and related cases, I am confident that the information will be published, all relevant decisions will be taken, according to the current legislation of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u50	Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u51	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Prime Minister, your incompetence has long been news to Ukrainians, but your level of cynicism is debilitating. I have a question for you. Why are you offering money for tariff compensation to take from subsidies? As an opposition, we registered Bill No. 4585. Please study. We propose to take the money for compensation from the O.P., the G.I., the D.B.I., and other repressive organs that you use for the pressure on the opposition. And you take them out of subsidies and you lie to people that you have money.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u52	The money is in the national budget of Ukraine, which forms the people of Ukraine. We only carry out the adopted legislative acts that are in force in the country of Ukraine. There's an article on expenses called "Ploughs and Subsidies." The main task of the government and the state is to help people. To that end, the budget voted in Parliament has a corresponding article, which contains 36.6 billion dollars. Accordingly, the government uses the funds to help vulnerable populations and those who need them, including in order to pay benefits, subsidies, and monetary aid. As we move to a civilized world, we want the market to work, and prices to be fair so that there is no corruption, which is why the anticipated monetaryization of the benefits and the payment from this article, the direct purpose of which is to help people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u53	Sobolen. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u54	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm very sorry, but I need to correct you a little bit. You told the lie. We took down the accounting records at which the price of the gas was pumped in the summer gas of the shelter. And so we saw the volume. That's why you lied. The average price at which the gas was attached is the price of 2 bracelets of 90 copies per cubic meter. And by decree, you've set seven bracelets. And that's why we'd like to get from you the official accounting data of NAC Naftogaz about the price, who, when, and how much did you do the screw-up and the average price. And you didn't answer the Vitrek question. You know very well that Vitrenco was in charge of this corruption when 225 billion dollars were removed from Naftogazu NAC outside, 75 billion were not paid in the budget. Why do you put a thief on your first deputy?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u55	So, as for your accounting question, I take it as a reference. Let's go to Naftogaz accordingly and ask, if possible, for a publication of commercial information or non-commercial in order to put dots over "and" for these prices. About the second part of your question. We live in a state of law. If you have a court decision, some results of criminal conduct, I'll be grateful for their presentation, and I'll respond immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u56	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u57	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u58	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u59	Thank you. I have two questions. The first question that applies primarily to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And since 2019, we have actually created a vacuum of the representation of Ukraine, the mission of Ukraine on NATO. Question is, when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is finally planning to submit, make a submission to the head of the mission of Ukraine to NATO. That's the first question. Why is this track lost, in principle, and we can't fully run and work? So you know what the situation is on other international sites. It seems to me that at a time when we have the support of the Alliance, that would be the right thing to do, especially with the parliamentary dimension. And the second question to Mr. Prime Minister is from the people of the cities of satellites, where there are nuclear power stations, about the return of electricity payments. Because people are standing in their ears and they're wondering why these benefits were taken out for residents of a 30-mile zone near nuclear power stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. With regard to NATO representation, NATO and I are conducting such a very dense dialogue. We have a lot of work to do every week, every day. The post introduced and the Deputy Prime Minister's very effective work on European Euro-Atlantic integration. I'm going to ask Olga Vitaliyevny to comment on this question. As for the second part, if possible, ask Mr. Yuri Boyke, deputy minister of energy to comment on the second part of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u61	Mazurashu Georgiy Georgievich. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. That's very right. As you know, the decision to appoint the head of the Ukrainian Mission to NATO is taken by the President because it is a diplomatic position. We've put together a number of proposals to determine the next candidate for the head of the mission. And we hope that soon he will be appointed. Right after the communication of the Prime Minister and the President with the Secretary-General and the discussion, including this issue. This question has already been resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u63	Mazurashu Georgiy Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u64	George Mazurashu, Servant of the People, 203 District. Regarding the reduction of the gap between the minimum pension, the minimum of living, and the minimum wage, a colleague of the Alexander Kachura faction has already sounded. So I'm going to go to the second question about the physical culture and the sport that I'm dealing with. In the process of decentralization, our very sphere was seriously affected. Because there was a huge imbalance in the financing of physical culture and sports from local communities, at community level, at the level of local authority. In my proposals to the Government’s Programme of Action, I proposed setting a minimum, minimum, level of funding for physical culture and sports throughout the country. Because we all live in one country. And this social standard has to be the same for everyone. I ask you to respond to this and ensure that the movement towards the establishment of just reliable safeguards in this area throughout the country is the same basic for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. You know, last year there was a President's 100 Schools, 100 Gardens, 100 Stadiums, it was fully implemented. 100 sports objects were put into service. This year, the program continues actively. We also give quite a lot of attention to sports. The Ministry of Youth and Sports has a fairly good budget and will continue to pursue policies that are relevant to the development of sport in the state and in the decentralized regions. I will also ask the minister to complete his youth and sports and to give a more detailed answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u66	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Thank you, Your Honor. Question time's up. I wish you good luck. Let's get back to our regular job. Dear colleagues, let's move on. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to Rudik Sergio Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I understand your concern, because we need to approach the Prime Minister, and the ministers will be dealt with with with some serious issues. But I'd like to distract and explain that as long as the turn comes together, give a few minutes of your attention to a question that concerns so many people in this country, I'm not afraid of that word, it's millions. Now I'm talking about people who, because of certain circumstances, among them the weak policy of real power in the first place, COVID, the war in the country is at risk of survival. And I'm talking about people who make money for themselves and their families, and we call them FOPs. From December 15th to this day, these people are standing on the Maidan and asking for authority, pay attention to us. Since the 15th of December, when the police beat them, and our Parliament, apart from my performance, seems to have in no way responded to it within a month and a half, the authorities appear to be nonexistent, 2 million people in our country. Whoever they are, the officials, the prosecutors, the cops, we're with you, the people's deputies, the local councils, they just don't see the problems of the people who are trying to convince us for a month and a half that they need to leave behind the rules: a simplified system of taxation that has been going on for many years and for today. In December, a Council was set up with the President of Ukraine to promote small businesses. Did you think there was even one real trouper? No, my dear friends, there are no real trophies protesting the underprivileged conduct of power. There are only those who lick this authority. I asked the President on January 25: "Dear Vladimir Alexanderovich, pay attention to 2 million people and their organization Save FOP, who are fighting for their rights. Turn it on, you won't lose anything. You're going to get an alternative view of what you're doing today in our state." Perhaps our colleagues remember that we collected 155 signatures to hold an off - line session. Servants, where's the session? I personally collected almost a hundred signatures. Where's the session? My colleagues, please, you don't like the 3853-1, 3853-2 and 3993 that we called on and called on the FOPs, let's work out a joint bill, but taking into account the key proposals on these bills. No one wants to hang.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, now as has been decided, 30 minutes to read the questions. Olena Konstantinovna Kondratjuk. The only suggestion is that the President be asked to vote at the end if there is no objection. Helen Constantine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u69	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! So we're just going to read the questions that came from the people's deputies, and we're just going to leave the procedure to the President of Ukraine for the last time. Okay? Thank you. Thus, 116 parliamentary inquiries were made during the plenary week. These include: 3 parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine; to the authorities of the Supreme Council - 1 parliamentary request; to the Cabinet of Ministers - 63; to the heads of other public authorities and local self-government bodies - 38; to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine - 11. So the questions of the Ukrainian national deputies. John Krulk to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund on the state of retirement for the elderly. Bogdan Kitzak to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the construction of a 60-bedroom apartment building for military personnel on the street of the Mihei people's brothers, 2 in the city of Berdichev. Bogdan Kitzak to the head of the Provincial District Administration for the capital repair of the Andrushewka-Red-Zhakutini road. Olga Saladuha to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister for the Reintegration of Temporaryly Inoccupied Areas, Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation, financing and status of implementation in 2021-2022 The establishment of housing funds for the temporary residence of internally displaced persons and the provision of temporary accommodation from housing funds for the temporary residence of internally displaced persons. Olga Saladuha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine for the inclusion of the specialty "Sports Medicine" in the Project "On Approval of the Regulations on Internet" Sergey Demchenka to the head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service on dealing with the issue of effective interaction between local authorities and tax authorities. Sergey Demchenka to the head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine on the dumping of unclean wastes in the continental sewer. Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conduct of competitive selection of a leader particularly important for the economy and security of the Ukrainian state enterprise. Andrija Derkača to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the validity of the legal basis for reducing State aid for children to single mothers. Andrija Derkač to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the development of the "Communication Strategy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2017-2021". Arsenija Pushkarenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not responding essentially to the parliamentary appeal of December 1, 2020, and for the appointment of the First Deputy Chief of State, Natalia Ostapchenko. Anatolya Kostucha to the head of the Zacarpathian District Administration for the financing of the Regional Target Programme for the Development of Water Management and the Environmental Recovery of the Tis River Basin in the Zakarpatsk Region. Anatolya Kostuha to the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the provision of medical equipment for the Zakartat region’s health facilities. Anatolia Kostuha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the purchase of medical equipment for the Zacarpathian region. Bogdan Torochtiya to the National Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine for the provision of insurance services AT "State Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine" Bogdan Torochtiya to the National Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine on specific issues of AT "State Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine". Bogdan Torochtiya to the National Food and Grain Corporation on the financial results of the State Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. Bogdan Torochtiya to the National Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine regarding the organizational structure of AT "State Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine". Bogdan Torochtiya to the National Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine on specific issues of AT "State Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine". Bogdan Torochtiya to the Association of National Food and Grains Corporation of Ukraine on the organization's activities. Bogdan Torochtiya to the Association of Shareholders of the National Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine on specific issues of the activities of the branches of this corporation. Bogdan Torokhtia to the head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on Certain Issues of the Activities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to address the issue of proper medical care of war veterans at the expense of the state budget. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to settle the issue of ensuring payment of annual cash assistance by May 5th to participants in hostilities of five minimum pensions per year. Alexander Danuci to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take measures to restore the tax on electricity for dwellings equipped with purely electrical combustion plants. National deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the settlement of the pricing situation in the area of housing and utility services. Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of measures to stop interference with the company’s activities. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the work on the reconstruction of water networks in the city of Killia Odessa. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the settlement of the number of wild animals in the Tatarbunar district of Odessa. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration, U.K. State Road Agency for the financing of road repairs to the village of Mirne Kiliy district of Odessa. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the resident of the village of Biloliscia Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk district of Odessa Region of Vasil Lavreka regarding the provision of social, economic, legal and constitutional guarantees in the area of social protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Attorney General, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the issue of improper investigation of criminal conduct under the charge of the D.V. Pigeon. and Kingseppa L.M. co-workers of the police and the prosecutor's office. Michael Bondar and Michael Wolinz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the Lviv district hospital of re-medication No.3 in M. Sosniuk of the Red Cross region of Lviv. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the repair of the road in A3913. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the head of the Lviv District State Administration for the repair of the municipal streets of the Ralova District Community. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the head of the Lviv District State Administration for the repair of the roadways of general use of local value in the Lviv region within the Ralovo territorial community. Jaroslava Dubnević to the head of the Lviv District State Administration for the repair of the road to the general use of the local value of Niklovich-Zděstrjana. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Attorney General on the groundless closure of criminal conduct. Alexia Zmerenecki to the head of the National Police Department of Ukraine on improper paperwork at the National Police Department in the Kyiv region. Dmitry Black to the head of the Dnipropetrov district council, head of the Dnipropetroval district administration for the repair of the public road of state importance The Station - Upper Provosk - Vrchovtsev - Bodarovka and the road of general use of the local meaning of Petihatka - Novovasilovka - Yellowte - Petihatsk district of Dnipropetrov. Dmitry Black to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restructuring of the state-owned mining and enrichment company Eastern Mining by joining the state-owned enterprise "National Atomic Energy Company Energoat". Dmitry Black to the head of the Dnipropetrov District Council, head of the Dnipropetrov district government administration for the integration of the Freer territorial community into the Aul water supply utility of the Dnipropetrov district council for the provision of centralized water supply. Oksana Savchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ensuring the proper functioning of urban transport during quarantine. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to support the domestic industry. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the implementation of the Environmental Protection Programme of the Hmělnice Region to carry out work on the transport and disposal of unfit chemical plant protection products. Alexia Zmerenecki to the head of the Hmelnicka District State Administration for the clarification of the allocation of funds for the implementation of the Environmental Protection Program of the Hmelnicka District for the execution of work on the transport and disposal of unfit chemical plant protection products. Alexia Zmerenecki to the director of the State Bureau of Investigation’s duties to meet the normative and reasonable deadlines during the documentary process in the district office of the State Bureau of Investigation located in Kiev. Michael Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the pension provision of veterans of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Alexander Gerega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for assistance in continuing the treatment of Hero of Ukraine, Lieutenant Colonel of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Alexander Petrovic. Powered by Nekludova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Professional Classifier, approved by the Ukrainian State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy No.327 of July 28, 10th, taking into account the new edition of "Ukraine's Spelling". Victor Meyalik to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Regional Public Administration for the provision of funding for the municipal non-commercial enterprise of the Varas City Council, Varasska Multi-Profession Hospital. Sergia Mandiya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in wages for social workers. Sergia Labazuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on pension payments to members of the village and rural councils. Nelly Yakovlieva to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on bringing to justice those responsible for the fire in an elderly house in Kharkiv. Alexander Kunickýk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the conduct of an official negligence check during a pretrial investigation into criminal conduct. Alexander Kunickýk to the director of the State Bureau of Investigation’s duties to take personal control of the conduct of a pretrial investigation into the conduct of a criminal offence of official negligence. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on possible cases of fraud by gas workers in the country. Michael Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of funds, equipment and medicines for medical facilities to counter the spread and overcome the effects of acute respiratory disease SOVID-19. Alexia Zmerenecki to the head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the creation of the Slovenian-Ouratsky National Natural Park in the Orutsky region of the Žitomir Region. Plačkowa's aunts to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the urgent need to include sailors in the list of priority groups for vaccination from COPID-19. Plačkowa’s aunts to the minister of health of Ukraine, head of Odessa District State Administration, on the issue of the care of diabetes patients with insulin. Anastasia Lashenko to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the activities of the Poltavablanergo AT and the possible blockage of street lighting in the settlements of the Poltava region. Anastasia Lashenko to the head of the stockholders' association Poltavablanergo for not allowing street lighting to be turned off in the settlements of the Poltava region. Victor Mjalik to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of educational facilities in the province of Ravensk. Sergia Dunayeva to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the purpose of the Institute of Chemical Technology's exit from the East Ukrainian National University of Vladimir Dahl and its accession to the Luhan National University of Taras Shevchenk. Irina Konstankevich to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cancellation of electricity subsidies for residents of the 30km zone. Irina Konstanovic to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the promotion of the allocation of funds for the Danyny sanatorium in the village of Zabka Kivertsi district of Volin district. July Lighthouse to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the issue of gas cost compensation. Larissa Bilozer to the Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine on the negative impact of the introduction of anti-dumping duties on coal steel, which is classified in product items 7210 70, 7210 90 and 7212 40 according to the origin of the PRC. Solomonia Bobrowski to the Attorney General on ensuring proper procedural guidance in the investigation of a criminal offence committed against a public activist in the village of Kotsubinsk Buchan district of Kiev. Solomonia Bobrowski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the provision of a full, objective and impartial investigation into a criminal offence committed against a public activist in the village of Kotsubinsk district of the Kyiv region. Sergey Severin to the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the further operation of the railway station of the Interov Donetsk Railway. Marina Bardinau to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the State's guarantees of enforcement. Alexander Tkachenka to the Attorney General’s Office regarding the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Alexander Tkachenka to the State Audit Service of Ukraine regarding the possible misuse of the budget of the Killian United Territorial Society. Alexander Bakumov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the issue of benefits and subsidies for housing and utilities for persons with disabilities as a result of the war. Geo Leros to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the possible violation by a candidate in the Ukrainian national deputies of the cold A.I. A constitutional requirement regarding the term of residence in Ukraine over the past five years. Geo Leros to the head of the State Border Service of Ukraine on possible violation by the candidate of the Ukrainian People's Deputies by the Cold A.I. The constitutional requirement for a term of residence in Ukraine Geo Leros to the head of the Central Electoral Commission on the possible violation by a candidate in the Ukrainian National Deputies of the Cold A.I. The constitutional requirement for living in Ukraine for the last five years. Alexia Ustenko to the Attorney General, to the Director General of the Society with limited responsibility for the "Operator of the Ukrainian Gas Transport System" for prices and volumes of natural gas. Alexia Ustenko to head the government of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine on prices and volumes of natural gas in shelters. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkarenka, Kabachenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on ensuring the proper conditions for the activities of the Institute of Archaeology of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Anna Speedhod to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Attorney General for the rights of minors in criminal conduct. Igora Abramovich to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Ukraine’s Minister of Health, for the use of measures aimed at ensuring that the health sector is properly financed. Igora Abramovich to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at ensuring the proper implementation of the decisions of the State-guaranteed court. Geo Leros to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on possible gross violations by the DP "NAEC "Energot" of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act and the requirements set out in the Company's statute and its anti-corruption programme. Geo Leros to the head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine on possible violations by the DP "NAEC "Energot" of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act and the requirements set out in the company's statute and its anti-corruption program. Natalia Pippa to the Lviv city head for the restoration of the kindergarten on the street of Panas Mirno, 13 in Lviv. Paul Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the Ukrainian government's consideration of the bill to extend the deadline until 2025 of the General Target Program on Drinking Water of Ukraine. And the last question I'm going to read: Paul Melnik to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, on the need to make changes to the relevant decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 65 of February 5, 2020 regarding the solution to the problem of paying salaries to medical workers in municipal health facilities at the restructuring stage. Dear colleagues, these are all the parliamentary questions that have come from you. We have now. Thank you, thank you. And now we have it. What they listened to. And we now have three parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Now, Helen Konstantinovna is going to put three motions to the President of Ukraine, which will require 226 votes of support. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u71	National deputies, please take your seats in the hall, prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? We can start the vote. Thus, the distinguished national MPs are facing an open-ended roll-call vote in support of the request of Ukrainian National Deputy Oksana Savchuk to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine Mikhail Mulik. Please prepare for the vote and please vote. [[11:22:36]] For 267 Decision taken. So, colleagues, we're voting on the decision to refer your previously supported request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ask the deputy of the people. [[11:23:03]] For 264 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, support for the request by Alexia Kovalov to the President of Ukraine for the possible illegal activity of the head of the General Directorate of the State Department of the Herson Region of Palyvoda Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please prepare for the vote. Vote. [[11:23:40]] For 279 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:24:06]] For 277 Decision taken. And the final question. Dear colleagues, there is an open roll vote in support of the request of a group of national MPs (Pushkarenka, Gerasimenka, and others). A total of 6 national deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the announcement in 2021 of Lesi Ukraine in connection with the 150th birthday. Please vote. [[11:24:46]] For 297 Decision taken. Thus, it is up to the president of Ukraine to vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:25:11]] For 298 Decision taken. Thank you. That's a great result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u72	Thank you, Helen Constantine. Let's get to work. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Change to the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Investment Climate Improvement in Ukraine (Registration No. 4090). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:25:59]] For 229 Decision taken. A member of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Vasilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhailovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, Project 4090 is a derivative of Project 3087-d, which we voted with you yesterday for the creation of the Bureau of Economic Security in Ukraine. So the Ukrainian Act of 16th year No1797 stipulates that the tax police have been eliminated since the date of entry into force of the law, which provides for the creation of a new body that is subject to prevention, detection, termination, investigation and detection of criminal offences in the tax, customs and budgetary spheres, that is, in our case, the Bureau of Economic Security. In order to reconcile the moment of liquidation of the tax police and to give a transitional period for the creation of a new body, we suggest that the tax police be eliminated from the date of the decision to initiate the activities of the bureau, but not later than 6 months from the date of entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Security. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Improvement of Investment Climate in Ukraine (Registration No. 4090) on the period of validity of individual provisions (registration No. 4090) to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law of Ukraine with technical and legal work. Thank you for your attention. Please support the creation of a new organ and the elimination of the DFS.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u74	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Do you want to talk about it? Please write down: two for, two for the factions for the performances. You can sit down. Thank you. Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u75	Good afternoon, colleagues! Good afternoon, Presidium! I would like to turn to everyone and tell them what it takes to be indifferent and incomprehensible people to write such standards in this law. Tell me what you'll decide if you write now that six months from now the new one is due to work yesterday, if it's signed, because it's already a second draft of the law in the hall, BEB. You see, without changing the Criminal Procedure Code and the Criminal Code, we don't even know the relevance of the new body. What cynicism was here last night when you were trading, and how many people needed it. How many articles will be passed on to the subject — 3 or 55? There are now 6,000 employees in the Tax Police. How long will it take for the 55 articles to be passed on? Please tell me what cynicism is when it's written in yesterday's adopted law that after the formation of 30 percent of the individual composition, all the cases that now run the tax police will be transferred to the new body. You're paralyzing the work of this body, it's the unsuspecting things that our tax police has polluted. You're saying they're ineffective, you're already creating an organ that doesn't work, it's going to be overwhelmed by the old stuff. And that means that you're not going to change the work of the new body, the very responsibility of that body that you're talking about in general, a risk-oriented approach. You didn't get him like that yesterday. So I think what's going to be written here, and if you vote about this right now, it's just the left-hand side that plays to make the organ ineffective and work in the pipe, just spends money on the government budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u76	Thank you. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u77	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, "Trust" group. This bill is actually systematically related to that bill that we voted yesterday about the Bureau of Economic Security. And to avoid the emergence of a legislative coalition in the work of law enforcement agencies, the very key idea of this bill is to ensure that the tax authorities function and perform their duties to combat offences in tax legislation during this period since we voted on the bill, how it will enter into force, and to fully start the work of the Ukrainian Economic Security Bureau, especially its territorial units. Because, as you and I understand, on the date of validity of this law that we voted with you yesterday, the Ukrainian Bureau of Economic Security and especially its territorial divisions will not be created yet, and as a result, there may be a temporary absence of a body in the fight against tax offences. So to ensure continuity and stability in the fight against tax offences, there is actually a draft bill. I propose that it be voted on as a basis today as a whole. The Trust MP will vote in favour. I call on you, my colleague in the Hall, to support this bill as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u78	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u79	Ironman Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u80	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to thank you all for having made a truly historic decision yesterday that will help both our state and international investors and our citizens to breathe more freely in Ukraine. We did what we promised at least a few parties in our pre-election programs: we took the muscle out of business. And for that, first of all, I thank the committee that has worked for a long time, and you, Olga Mikhailna, personally, and all of you who have supported it. We made promises, we did what we couldn't do for a few decades: we took away the BSS from economic impact. Thank you. What's this bill about? It's technical, but it's important. He's talking about what we're doing last step: we're clearing the Tax Police out of this concept of Ukrainian legislation and existence as an organ. We're setting a six-year deadline to create a new, I hope, transparent and efficient body, the Bureau of Economic Security. And after six months, the tax police will be eliminated, and that's what many of you have promised. Dear colleagues, this is really a technical bill. I won't be talking about it long. But I'm just urging everyone to come together now and finally confirm with a green button that we want our Ukrainian and international business to work freely and forget about concepts like mask show, robbery, removal of servers, and think about how to make money and pay taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u82	Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u83	Please give me Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u84	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, surely our faction supports the initiative to eliminate the tax police, we voted yesterday on the relevant bill in the first reading on the BSS, as you pass on the functions of the third institute. However, the bill is called "Improving Changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code for Improving the Investment Climate in Ukraine", and I am deeply convinced that such a complex intellectual product should contain such positions and standards that will actually stimulate the involvement of foreign direct investment in the national economy. So far, those bills that are going to the Supreme Council today, they show the National Bank's data, they show that we have a significant decline in the amount of foreign direct investment in the national economy, especially this year. So from this point of view, we insist that, in fact, for the purpose of stimulating, and in general, investment growth, investment potential, we still need, firstly, conflict resolution in the areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, real demonization and, of course, let's face it, real tax reform that will be conducive to the national economy, not that that will turn the branches of the real economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? A speedboat, I can see, with motive. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the "For the Future" MPs didn't support yesterday's law and won't support it, because the name change doesn't change. You're saying that you took away the economy there from the B.B.I. and the police, very well. But you have not defined specific articles to which the newly created office will now be subordinated. You're saying there's going to be an investment climate. You know, it's never going to be, because whatever it is, it's going to be the tax police or the bureau, it's going to come to entrepreneurs with some kind of court decision, and they're going to start nightmares and tell them that they have to pay $10,000 or $20,000 to keep them out of harm's way. So first of all, we need not to change the name, but to reform the general system, in order for business to work, not survive. Then the country's economy will work normally and there will be direct investment. And there will be no investment with such laws. We will not support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u88	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, this bill is proposed for adoption as a whole. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Ukraine's final and transitional provisions on the amendment of the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Improvement of Investment Climate in Ukraine (Registration No. 4090). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:37:25]] For 258. Decision taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption as a whole with the necessary technical and legal rights. Please support and vote. [[11:37:50]] For 259. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Award Order for the best participants in the external independent evaluation of the results of full general secondary education (registration number 4559). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:38:30.]] For 262 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation, Babak Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u89	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's a decree to celebrate the best high school graduates who make up an external independent evaluation. We've analyzed the top of the graduates in the last few years, and we've seen, for example, in the middle of the top 30, the next painting. These kids, thanks to their high performance, can still go to any university. But we want to give them a financial pillow so that at least a year and a half can feel at peace in another city, because two thirds of them are usually not from cities, but from villages or small towns. So it will be for both children and their parents. The committee considered Decree 4559 at its meeting and decided on the following. Paragraph 2 of the decree states in the following wording: "To establish that the award is awarded annually to the general secondary education recipients of the current year, who have performed external independent evaluation of the results of the full general secondary education of four and more courses, the total amount of 100 to 200 points has been awarded for at least one of these courses, including 200 points for at least one of these courses (the four highest personal results are included in the curriculum for which the participants of the external independent evaluation have been registered) and which are included in the current year prior to the higher education establishment in Ukraine and signed an education contract with the higher education institution of Ukraine. If fewer than thirty people or thirty equal to the number of applicants who meet certain requirements, the prize will be awarded to all of them. In the event that more than 30 people have gone to the list of applicants, the prize is awarded only by the result of which (the total score of the four subjects) is higher by at least 1 point than the result of the thirty - first candidate in the list. One bonus is $100,000." Dear colleagues, we recommend accepting it as a foundation and as a whole, and we need to understand that the whole world is hunting for talent, and we want our state to support at least the most talented graduates, even though it must support everyone. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two in, two in. No discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, write it down: two in, two in, two in. It's just that the people's MP of the city screams "yes," and the head of his Batenko faction yells "no," so somehow you'll understand. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's it. I'm sorry. Please, National Deputy Dubil Valeriy Aleksandrovitch, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u91	Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u92	Pass it on. Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u93	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, dear companion, note the last words that the chairman of the committee has said, and I will continue them. Today, there are four kinds of markets in the world. The first market is the raw material market. Where Gabon, Burkina Faso and Ukraine are bartering with raw materials, where they're trying very hard to get us all down there. The second market is the market for finished products. See our statistics report, and count the number of machine - building, manufacturing, food, and so on. And you'll see, you can slip. The third market is the high-tech market. Take a look at the statistics again and again at the scientific value of Ukrainian GDP. Friends, bitter, bitter and bitter again. And the fourth most important market is the brain market. It's now a little quiet, and in previous years, months of the week, monthly Olympics, competitions that just don't happen in the world, where the graduates go. Our graduates take their seats and immediately absorb them. 25,000 brains travel from Ukraine each year. A tiny step, microscopic to make the state say that the talents are and we appreciate them, we've seen them. Friends, microscopic step. I want these microscopic steps to multiply. Let's let the legislators take the initiative to get us out, to take the talents away so they can stay in Ukraine, otherwise there's no future. We vote in favour and we ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, National Deputy of Urban Anatoly Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u96	Please give the word to Irina Miroslavni Konstankevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u97	Irina Miroslavna Konstanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u98	Dear National Deputies, the Group "For the Future" consistently supports education and supports what the future holds for Ukraine -- its talented students, students, scientists. And we think that one of the best ways to support these intelligent and creative children is to provide material, financial encouragement. Therefore, we will uphold the decision as relevant and important. But at the same time, we want to stress that this decision highlights another important problem: external independent testing. We think that the NPP is the most modern and optimal form of support for the best, gifted schoolchildren. That's why we're going to support the U.N.A. And we think we need to continue to do everything we can to ensure that smart schoolchildren have access to modern quality education. And in this context, it is also important to support rural youth. So I ask that the Ministry of Education and Science and the National Deputies pay attention to those schoolchildren and their 40 percent who live in rural areas. They are now in need of material support. It is they who need modern knowledge. So let's focus further on this problem. Thank you. The Future Group supports smart, creative people for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u99	Thank you. The Fed Sofia Romanovna, please, the faction of European Solidarity. Dear colleagues, I ask you to step away from the gate so that the deputies can come to the rostrum. Please, Sophia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u100	Sophia Fedina, European Solidarity. First of all, I'm going to stress that our faction will support this decision, because the support of talented young people who can think and analyze is a prerogative for our Ukrainian state. But please tell me who the talented young people should be when we have the minister of education who stole the scientific achievements of other scientists?Oh, my God! And the Supreme Council Hall went to such a low point in supporting intellectual theft. Perhaps this is because there are people in the Supreme Council without education. Perhaps this is because assistant members of the Supreme Council do not need education now, as decided by the Supreme Council. But I have a few more points to stress. If we want to have quality young people, educated young people, who will continue to fill public authorities in particular, we need to give them a complete platform on which they will be oriented in their activities. And what are they supposed to be focused on in Ukraine if, in our 30th year of independence, we have teachers of Ukrainian language who say that and who is the aggressor is the Moscow Federation and that Ukrainian language is a means of security. What can we talk about when, at the request of various promoskows defiances invited here and adopted by Zelensky, textbooks are copied, we are forbidden to honor Ukrainian heroes, and we are generally questioned about Ukrainian spelling and Ukrainian being. So let's, honourable fellow MPs, let's be honest if we want to support the talent of young people, so let's build a quality Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u101	Thank you. Lukashev Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u102	Please pass the word to Alexander Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u103	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u105	Alexander Sergiyovich, one minute. Is there anyone else out there? "The Voice," "The Servant of the People," "The Trust." Now, Koltunovich, three more speeches with motives and we move on to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u106	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Of course, our faction supports this determination as a direction towards truly supporting talented young and educated people and young scientists. Here, however, good points were made about scientific production as well. And it's a really terrible tragedy for the national economy when we only have 1 percent in the country is the share of innovation in the industrial structure. This indicates that we have, in principle, not just labour migration, but intellectual labour migration, and I can tell you, as colleagues of science, that a lot of scientists, including young people, go abroad, take part in various projects, programs, and, in principle, never come back. So, from this point of view, we have a proposal for a training committee not only to stop at school students and graduates, but also to support young scientists, postgraduates, PhDs and young scientists under the age of 35. This is the second moment. Third. It is certainly worth noting that today’s budgetary day should be supported by appropriate technical and natural sciences such as those who are actually taking part in the formation of a new technology and determining the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u107	Please, People's Lady Pip. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u108	Good afternoon! Pippa Natalia, Lviv, 115th District, Voice faction. The Voice faction will support this decision because we think it's really worth giving incentives that help our graduates learn and get the best results from the DPA. But for the future, we suggest that there should be no results from the UN that students whose parents have the opportunity to provide them with a tutor and that every school has the opportunity to learn that way, and for that there is a reform of the New Ukrainian School, especially the pilots, so that we can get those lessons, our students, in the classrooms and schools, not in the tutors. In addition, we believe that the incentive for learning should be not just money and bonuses but, in fact, the desire to learn and achieve the best results in Ukraine. So for the future, we're going to offer another system of motivation for our students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u109	Thank you. I see Gritchcock, I see Bilozer. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u110	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, the Trust Group will vote in favour of this draft decision, we need to support our talented young people. But I wanted to point out that it's very good that the profile committee's representatives on the day after approval of the presidential bill on the prize to the participants, there, in fact, 20 annual prizes of 5,000, so they gave 30 annual bonuses of 100,000. The difference, they say, is tangible, and it's such a healthy competition in the full sense of Parliament and the President. And I want to say that the President has already interrupted our Parliament and today said that the decree has already been signed, 250 children will receive 120 thousand (these are participants and international and learning grants, and also the results of the KNP). So it's a very nice competition between Parliament and the President, for the benefit of the children. Trust Group will support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u111	Gristuk Roman Pavlovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that there is a difference between the competition and the joint support of talented young people -- this is the joint work of the President's Office and the Parliament to support talented young people. The best students, the best graduates who made up the DPA, will receive a 100,000 dollar bonus, and monthly support of 10,000 dollars. It is also being implemented according to the order of the President of Ukraine to win the all-U.S. Olympics as well as the international Olympics. And today's decision marks the top 30 graduates who made the KNZ. I ask you to support all those who support the talent of young people, this determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u113	Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote, take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Decision on the Prizes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the best participants in the external independent evaluation of the results of education obtained on the basis of full general secondary education (registration number 4559). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:53:53]] For 312 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u114	Respectable citizens, respected colleagues, quality and affordable education for all regardless of their place of residence or income level are the fundamental principles on which the work of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation is always based, irrespective of factions and political views. As a result, we, the committee members, claim that any child who chooses to study in the 10th grade will certainly go to this 10th grade regardless of where she lives. The senior school of profile is and will be in cities, towns, villages, and other locations. Absolute manipulation is the claim that there will be no senior school in rural areas. It's an open fake that's not even theoretically discussed. For fastening, we write from a new line: all children have and will have the opportunity to study at a senior school in a facility next to their home. Why did this subject arise in general? It's about finding a golden middle between the quality of education and the availability of education. Let me give you an example. You, a deputy or a deputy, need information about, for example, the nuances of medical reform. Seems like the easiest way to do that is to go back to the neighbor and ask. This is an example of the most accessible education available, but not of the fact that it's good quality. Because if you did, for example, look at me, this education wouldn't be an available professional, from the point of view of medical education. What must we do to ensure that this education is of quality? For example, approach Mr. Raduccik, head of the committee. It's going to be as good an education as possible, but we're losing our accessibility and comfort. Now scale up the entire state to understand what not a simple task with a star is now being solved by a committee with a ministry. It's a simple decision: changing the school's name to "person" is definitely not about quality. But allowing a high school, whether super - quality or super - quality, for example, for five communities is no way out. Moreover, there is a logic to the process of decentralization: if the community is able to establish and maintain a high-quality higher school, we have no right to deprive it of such a possibility. Hopefully, the problem of finding compromise is understandable. We are aware of the fact that the norms laid down in legislation are not a fundamental constant and can be proposed for review. And what is a fundamental constant for all members of the committee, regardless of the faction, is the interests of the child and the interests of the state. So once again, all those who are trying to speculate on this issue are advised to look for other topics for loud statements. All the kids from anywhere will go to school: 1st, 5th, 10th and any other class. And that's a fact enshrined in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, yesterday during the meeting and meeting of the leaders of the MP factions and groups, and with the participation of representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, it was agreed that the bill 4672 would be considered under the ad hoc procedure today. Under these arrangements, we are moving on to its consideration. This is a draft Act amending Appendix 3 of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2021 on compensation for the increase in electricity tariffs. Everyone remembers the decision that was taken yesterday by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and as we continued to do so quickly as we promised, the Supreme Council is ready to respond quickly to the challenges facing both us and society. So let's move on to this bill. Now we need to make a decision to put this issue in the agenda. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:58:41]] For 309 Decision taken. We need to shorten the deadline for the submission of alternative bills until today's plenary session, which is until 29 January 2021, according to article 101 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Please support and vote. [[11:59:17]] For 296 It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[11:59:41]] For 308. Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:00:02]] For 248 Decision taken. Gevko Volodymyr Leonidovich, Ukrainian national deputy, is invited to attend. Give me four minutes, both from the authors, and from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u116	Dear Dmitri Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! At its meeting on January 29, the Committee on Budget Affairs promptly considered Bill 4672, which aims to settle the issue of financial security for compensation for the increase in electricity tariffs. In order to provide such compensation, the bill provides for the expenditure of the Ministry of Social Policy under the new budget programme, amounting to 1.4 billion dollars for the reduction of expenditure under another programme of the Ministry. The bill is balanced by budgetary indicators. But it's not given proper financial and economic justification and calculation. The main scientific and expert office makes specific remarks to the bill and considers it possible to apply the proposed tool for resolving the issue in the current year. The Ministry of Finance also supports this bill. On the basis of the review and taking into account the need for an immediate solution to the issue, the Committee adopted a decision: recommending to the Supreme Council Bill 4672 to include in the agenda of the session and the results of the first reading to be adopted as a basis and generally as a law with the necessary editorial and technical legal rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u117	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u118	Please pass the word to Gerus Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u119	Gerus Andrey Mihailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u120	Good afternoon! Thank you. Indeed, this bill is vital for us to accept it today. And the thing is, this is how we solve the problem of electricity in those cities where there's electricity and there's no gas, and there's going to be compensation. Accordingly, consumer citizens will not feel an increase in tariffs because compensation will take place at the level of the electricity supplier. If we accept it today, we resolve the problem in January, in February, and throughout this heating period. Therefore, it is vital that we vote today. It also includes compensation for many children’s families and for family - type children’s homes. So I ask everyone to support and vote on this bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u121	Thank you. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u122	Please pass the word to Taras Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u123	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, you know, when there's fog in the heads of government, we're afraid to be overstated. On the one hand, we are offered to do a kind of good job: pay compensation to those citizens of Ukraine who have suffered from an arbitrary decision by the government and the NCRE to increase electricity tariffs. On the other hand, we have a moral and ethical component, we are actually consecrating tariffs with our decisions, and the government has raised, and now we have to make compensation. What's the point of who? The bill gives us, my friends, no guarantee that the government will comply with the regulations we adopted yesterday by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was entrusted to the government to pay back the debt for electricity consumption, which does not exceed 100 kilowatts. Moreover, the mediocre draft law indicates that the government is not going to take into account the wishes of the deputy corps as can be seen from this law. In addition, we suspect that this bill demonstrates that the government is not planning to do much at all. The risk of the government's bill as well as the MP's bill is that they do not contain any rules that would answer the question of how much such compensation would be. By whom will such compensation take place? How many of our fellow citizens can count on such compensation? It seems that these issues are planned by the government to settle manually, as well as many things within the government's administration of prices, for its own discretion, which does not, of course, contribute to legal certainty and can be a source of abuse, manipulation, and that the most terrible thing in this situation is populism. The most dangerous thing, we think, is the proposal of the MP's bill to seek compensation for the funds that come from the state budget for subsidies. That is, instead of helping Ukrainian citizens find additional sources of funds, subsidies are declining. At first we had 90 billion, this year we have 36 billion, we're still reducing it, we're saying that the grant is enough, and now we're actually doing it. Many fellow citizens may not count. In fact, the bill gives support to people with one hand and takes away the other. We certainly support him, but there are many questions as to whether we are real.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u125	Jurchisin. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, we're going to have to vote for this bill, and in its essence I'm going to say very little. But I want to emphasize once again that the strange thing is that when we're back in the last minute, and this is the last day that we have to adopt this law, sign it, publish it to get it into effect, we're doing work for the government. This is a bad job, especially when all colleagues were able to meet with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the Ministry, with the Ministry of Finance, and ask them a week ago what they needed to pay for the cancellation of the electricity benefits. Unfortunately, today only we have seen this text, unfortunately we will have to vote for it. But this is, once again, a signal to all of us that we need to somehow report to the government, that we do have a parliamentary-presidential republic, they're hired by us to help and do work for people and to draft bills even in a week, not in a day that needs to be voted on in a timely manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u127	Thank you. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, you understand what's going on here: first, in the interests of Firmash, we raise the prices for gas, where 89 percent of the taxes are due to him; in the interests of Ahmetov, we stop, we reduce the atomic blocks; in the interests of Cologne, we introduce intermediaries for the sale of electricity, which people are suffering; in the interests of Zelensky, we take these funds out of subsidies, not from his Office of the President and not from the Prosecutor's Office, and we try to give these money to someone somewhere. There is a European Solidarity Order, where we absolutely demand that subsidies be increased, that state waste and state corruption be stopped at the President's Office, the Public Prosecutor's Office in State Stealing. Subsidies help people to move into the market, to regulate the market, to take this market out of the oligaric hands, and to make it transparent. Instead, what are we offered? The government has yet to make a decision without law, without any limit, to impose these compensations. How did they accept it when there was no law? Why is this law only being introduced here today? Where does it come from to take money for this law? Of course, we will take care of people. We understand that those who live and have no gas in the mountains, in the ungasified areas, because of the rise in electricity prices in the interests of the oligarchs, the same Cologne that you allowed in this room, are suffering. Of course, we think about helping these people. But these people need to know who's fooling them. And those who can't have anything to pay for the gas should know who that money's gone to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u129	It's Coltunovich, Kulinich. After that, Krulko. And let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Well, first of all, no one's reinstated the tax rate for electricity up to 100 kilowatt-hours of 90 copies, and they're offering to partially compensate. First. The other one. The budget documents add that 36.6 billion per grant. They just split that figure, they put 35.2 into total subsidies, and 1.4 billion dollars separately into electricity. So there's no addition, that's what's being done and why it's being shown. Next. There is no solution to the question and to the recipients of household subsidies. As 3 million people will get, so they will get them in that small amount. So in our view, we need to increase the total amount of subsidies. And then you're going to say that there's actually going to be an extra payment. Remember, you've increased the prices of gas, hot water, electricity, heating and a number of other derivatives. And today we have a corresponding discount just for electricity. We'll support the foundation. But please take this into account in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u131	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u132	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Dear colleagues, our group will support this bill. Because he's partially solving the housing-communal issue. It solves the problem of consumers who have switched to electricity, but in part. The settlement issue remains open for housing services. Because there are so many problems. That's why we're waiting on the government to take urgent new legislative initiatives. We need to settle the situation with gas. People continue to take part in protests, constantly turning to MPs, to major MPs, especially from our group. Therefore, the government must react urgently and take legislative initiatives to the Supreme Council, and we are ready to support them. We're going to support all the bills to the government, other factions and groups that are going to be aimed at cutting tariffs on residential services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u133	Thank you. Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, please, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u134	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to address you first. They put these super-term bills into the session hall, they put them on the committee day by day, day by day, on the basis and in general, as if they're saving the people who have raised electricity prices and who are burned by electric boilers, and so let's find them compensation. And I, when I look at all these laws, I have one question: You look at the sources where they're taking this money, they're taking this money out of subsidies. That is to say, this year the number of subsidies was reduced, the number of those who were reduced. families receiving subsidies. Thus, just now, 1 billion 400 subsidies will be taken to compensate those who have been raised for electricity prices. And I have a question: maybe you don't have to raise the price of electricity. Why don't we just listen to Fatherland and make gas prices adequate, and then we don't need that kind of subsidy? Because when I think it's the kind of bill that comes out, it's like we're saving someone. But we're not saving anyone, we're translating from one pocket to another, and actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u135	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready? Let's put it as a foundation, then in general. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending Appendix No. 3 of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2021 on compensation for the increase in electricity tariffs (Registration No. 4672) Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:14:00]] For 311 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending Appendix No. 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2021 on compensation for the increase in electricity tariffs (Registration No. 4672). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:14:42]] For 310 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 217, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 16, "European Solidarity" – 19, "Fatherhood" – 17, "Party for the Future" – 17, "Voice" – 10, "Trust" – 15, "non-factional" – 9. Thank you again, dear fellows. Ruslan Alexiovich Stefanchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal, taking into account the urgency of this matter, to vote on the mandate given to the Head of the Supreme Council. Allowing the Head of the Supreme Council to sign this bill right now and send it to the President for signature so that we can still publish the bill. If there is no objection, I would like to put to the vote this proposal: to allow the Head of the Supreme Council to sign this bill without delay. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:15:57]] For 310 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u137	Thank you, Your Honor. The next issue of the agenda is also an important bill, registration number 4613. Yesterday we voted on it in our first reading. Similarly, we apply the ad hoc procedure that has been agreed upon. You have been handed over a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices concerning the State Registration of Medical Assets (registration number 4613). Dear colleagues, will someone insist on the papers? They will be. Who will insist? Sumar Victoria Petrovna, 37.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u138	My colleagues, I really want to thank the committee and say that, in the example of this law, we have seen that Parliament can be quick and effective in defending the interests of Ukrainians. And that's just a pattern to follow. Because we actually managed to make a completely understandable bill from a very imperfect document in one day, which provides for the possibility of rapidly registering vaccines in Ukraine today. We, the key, have banned experiments in the Ukrainians from mass slaughtering a Russian vaccine that has not passed clinical trials and shows very dubious results, and raises many doubts in the world. And this is forbidden, because this vaccine is developed in the aggressor state, this amendment is included, especially thanks for that. And of course, this law will now apply essentially to vaccines against COVID-19, not all experimental drugs. So once again, thank you to the committee and of course. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u139	Thank you. We can't vote her. Right? What's the deal, Nestor Ivanovich? Turn on the microphone. What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u140	Please correct number one for confirmation after I speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u141	No, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u142	What, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u143	It's manipulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u144	It's my right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u145	What's the correct number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u146	One.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u147	Amendment number one. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, yesterday, during a meeting of the Health Committee, there was a shameful phenomenon, and politics would affect the health of our citizens. To limit the possibility of getting a vaccine from a country where, by the way, there's an AstraZeneca factory, and maybe we'll have to buy an AstraZeneca vaccine that's produced in the Russian Federation, and we can't accept this short amendment. 14 countries have already registered Satellite V, by February 20, there will be 25 countries. Serbia, Hungary, from day to day Germany. What are you doing? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u149	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u150	Edit included. Dear Nestor Ivanovich, the committee was today. And second, we're not banning the production of AstraZeneca, we're talking about the development of vaccines. We're not talking about manufacturing, we're talking about developing vaccines. This right here is about development, not production.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u151	Please prepare for the vote. You insist on voting. I'm betting on the vote number one of the people's deputies of Raduccik. She was counted by the committee. Colleagues will come up and we'll vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Then we go to voting for the law as a whole. I'm forced to do the editing. We agreed that at the end of the day we were looking for confirmation. You see, your colleague raised it. Alexander Sergiyovich, you know. Ready to vote? Amendment No. 1 of Raducci, supported by the committee, puts it on the stand. Please support and vote. [[12:20:44]] For 280 Decision taken. Can we get to the vote? Thank you, Your Honor. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Law on Medical Devices on State Registration of Medical Assets (Registration No. 4613). Ready to vote? I'm betting on a second-reading vote and generally with the necessary technical and legal rights. Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:21:32]] For 280 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's do it the same way. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" – 206, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 20, "The Fatherland" – 16, "For the Future" – 6, "The Voice" – 10, "The Trust" – 13, "the Non-Factional" – 9. As far as permission is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, also taking into account the urgency of this issue, the same proposal to vote on the permission of the Head of the Supreme Council today to sign this bill without delay and to send it to the President of Ukraine for signature. If there is no objection, I vote and I ask you to support and vote. [[12:22:25]] For 282 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u153	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am calling on the committees of profile on this bill and the previous and the Supreme Council's apparatus to prepare quickly all necessary materials so that I can sign these bills and send them to the President for signature. Because it is very important for us to have these bills published and put into force tomorrow. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on the characteristics of the reform of the defence and industrial complex of state ownership (registration number 3822). We need to make a decision on the inclusion of this bill in the order of the day. Please support and vote. [[12:23:34]] For 229 Decision taken. It is proposed to apply the ad hoc procedure for making decisions at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[12:23:57]] For 227 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered by means of a reduction in the procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:24:18]] For the 220. Decision taken. The head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, Kopitin Igor Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend. Give me four minutes from the authors and the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence at its meeting on January 20, 2021, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Specificities of Reforming the Defence and Industrial Complex of State Property (Registration No. 3822) (since 16.12.20). The bill envisions a major reform of the very important sector of the defence and industrial economy. In particular, it provides: the transformation of the Ucroborprom State Concert into a company; the transformation of companies that are part of a company into a company; the introduction of a corporate model for the management of state-owned property in a defence and industrial complex under international standards; the creation of new branches of business units; transparent, competitive and predictable households capable of producing high-quality modern technology; the channelling of all funds from the implementation of surplus and non-profile property of state-owned enterprises of OPC to the sole needs of these enterprises; and these costs cannot be derived from the field. As a result of the discussion of the bill, GNEU's comments recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft Ukrainian Law on the characteristics of the reform of the defence and industrial complex of state-owned property (registration number 3822). Dear colleagues, please accept this bill is a prerequisite for creating conditions for the proper functioning and development of the state's defence and industrial complex, the withdrawal of enterprises from crisis, the provision of transparent and continuous management. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u155	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Sharaskin Andrey Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u156	Give God your health. Please give the word of Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u157	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, the reform of the defence and industrial complex, especially during such a sensitive period as war, is very important. This bill is a very important step towards reforming the defence and industrial complex. Thank God, this bill reached the Supreme Council Hall because, for about a year, various ministries and authorities could not agree with each other on his future fate. The Voice faction on the first reading will support this bill, but it has major flaws. In particular, there are certain procedures that are proposed to be done by hand, as well as things that relate to the valuation of property. So our final position will depend on what the editorial will be before the second reading, but on the first reading we will support, and we urge our colleagues to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kubbit Yuri Mihajlovich, "Serve of the People" faction. Yuri Mikhailovich Kusbit. Yuri Mikhailovich. You asked for my word. I give you my word. You've changed your mind, haven't you? National Deputy Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u160	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd like to give the floor to my colleague, Mr. Navejchenk, to Valentina Alexandrovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u161	Please, Valentin Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u162	Nadajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens of Ukraine! It's now offered to you by an overpowered majority for. During the last two days without consent, by the way, with no MP group, the bill on how to steal Ukrainian defence companies. That's all you'll see in this bill. And I'll tell you why. 116 companies, all the defenses that are currently watching this Supreme Council meeting (the Kharkiv aviation companies, Antonov and so on across the country) that have been waiting for you people's deputies who haven't been on the road for long? I'll tell you what. Direct government orders, destruction of corruption. And stop robbing and robbing the defense companies themselves that can make money. And Antonov, who's barely breathing, got 40 million dollars out of it last year. Where to? That's right, Ucrobanprom's officers. What's with the corruption pad? And why is it kept by this bill? And one more thing. For experts. Why did they run ahead of the train if there was a plan for an RNB meeting, if there was a president to preside over, and there would only be consideration of what to do? Why this bill? Why do they want to steal defense companies from Ukraine? Our clear position. Defence companies belong to the State. The defense of the state is a direct duty of every national MP. Not to make money, not to turn into a stock company, and to become rich at the expense of defense, but rather to start an engine of a defence and industrial complex, to protect the country, and to allow our defenses to work and produce the necessary equipment, weapons to protect the country, and also on Heroov Kruth's Memory Day. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u163	Heroic glory! Please, National Deputy Pavlovenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u164	Thank you. Please pass the word to Michael Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u165	Mikhail Zabrodsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity" undoubtedly recognizes the critical, without exaggerating the critical state of things that is currently taking place at the State concert Ucroborinprom. And it welcomes all the extraordinary measures that have been proposed by the new leadership to move from this dead point and, indeed, to allow the country's military-industrial complex to work for the benefit of the country, for the benefit of our forces and not only the Armed Forces. Undoubtedly, the prescribed law is a step forward in this direction, but today a number of experts note that the individual mechanisms that are included in this law, and I speak not only about the division of holdings, but also about procedural moments, bear all the signs of so-called secret privatization. And today we see at this moment a very serious threat to Ukraine's national security. Our political faction will not support the prescribed law in the first reading, but in any case we are ready for further cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u167	Thank you. Anyone else want to say something?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u168	Yeah. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, then Rudik. You don't want any more motive? Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović, please turn on the microphone and invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u169	Thank you. Mr. Head, our faction will not support such pseudo-reformation of defence industries, because it is not for the first time proposed under the "modernization" of the banal lease of objects, such as Antonov and other strategic enterprises. It is unacceptable for us, for example, to have a rule such as the order of free transfer of property and changes in burdens that do not contain safeguards against possible corruption. Also, in our view, it is also unacceptable for the Supervisory Board of Ucrobanprom as a subject of public property management to introduce essentially independent of the State and members of the Supervisory Board, and the wages there are determined by the same supervisory board itself. You and I have repeatedly tried to introduce safeguards to limit payments to members of the Supervisory Boards. There's also Mr. Stefanchuk's bill, if I'm not mistaken, on transparency and accounting. But the state can't rent Anton's enterprise to the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u170	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, neither I nor the members of the MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour of this bill. The words of economic security and the protection of the interests of the State will end when you are familiar with the purpose of adopting the bill. Everything you're going to read is literally going to sound like this. First: transfer between participants under simplified property procedure. The second is the release of the burdened property of the company’s participants. Third, the transfer of the only assets of the company’s participants and shares. Deriban is everything he pursues and is the purpose of this bill. Instead of reforming, you are now following yesterday's decision to shorten the BSS staff for two years after you've cut down the army, you're continuing to undermine the defense complex! A few years will pass, and you will be responsible elsewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u172	Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the characteristics of the reform of the defence and industrial complex of state ownership (registration number 3822). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:36:00]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you. Show the factions, please. Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk is from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u173	The honourable colleagues, from the procedure, if we can, we have very little time left before our session is closed, and there is a proposal for two bills that have unanimous support on the committees, this is now announced by 3952 on disclosure of information on the wages of state shareholders and 4538 on changes in scientific and technical information to put them up now and with minimal discussion, if you don't mind. 3952 and 4538.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u174	Is there no objection? What's "against"? 3952, do you mind? Dear colleagues, is there an offer by Ruslan Alexiyovich, then we are now due to the vote of the Hall, can we proceed immediately to the consideration of Bill 3952? Is the vote postponed? Okay. I am voting on the proposal by Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk to change the order of the proceedings during this plenary session, namely, that the Supreme Council now consider the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to ensure the openness of information on the size of the pay in public companies (registration No. 3952). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:38:56]] For 249 Decision taken. Let us turn to this issue of the day’s order. It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:39:22]] For 225 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u175	Mr. President, I am very grateful for the support of this transfer initiative, because the issue is extremely important. This is the second attempt to open information in Parliament about the salaries of individual managers and members of the supervisory boards of state shareholders. The thing is, the first time she tried was when we tried to get them to declare. Sadly, however, the various forces made it fail in the hall. Today we went the other way – two bills. The first bill is being followed today. This is a question of ensuring the openness of information on the structure, principles and size of the pay, the remuneration, the added benefit of the manager, the deputy manager, the legal person of the public law of the public enterprise, and so on, that this information is published in full and openly on the website of the relevant public shareholders' body. So, honourable colleagues, after this is phase two, the second bill that I'm going to ask for is to go back to the issue of the declaration of these leaders. Because the country we want to build needs to be built on open and honest principles of wage formation. And the people of Ukraine need to understand who and why they get the salary in this country, not send the national MPs that this information is private and mysterious. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill as well as the next bill. And only when we understand, openly and honestly, will we trust each other and those organizations and businesses that function at the expense of and for the benefit of the Ukrainian budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u176	The Deputy Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Kravchuk Eugenia Mikhailnovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! On September 30, at its meeting, the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy considered Bill 3952. Its purpose is to disclose information about the salaries and monetary rewards of the management of state companies. Today, this information is closed and does not contribute to the transparent work of businesses. These are legal persons whose statutory capital is more than 50 percent directly or indirectly owned by the State or the territorial community. In fact, the inhabitants of Ukraine or of a certain community are joint owners of such legal persons. Similar businesses can be financed from government or local budgets. So why do people have no right to know where their money is going, and in what amount? The bill amends Ukraine's Personal Data Protection and Public Information Act. Our committee certainly supports the initiative of the national deputy, Ruslan Stefanchuk. Moreover, we consider it appropriate to expand the scope of the document. It should include utilities, institutions, and organizations whose activities are based on the property of local communities and can be financed from local budgets. These changes are proposed for second reading. GNEW does not dispute the possibility of adopting the bill. As a result of the committee discussion, our committee recommends the adoption of Bill 3952 in the first reading as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u178	Needed to Be Discussed? Please sign up: two for, two for, two for, three for factions. Mazurashu Georgiy Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u179	Yes, of course, such a legislative initiative is very relevant now, especially in the context of waiting in society for justice, which is why our President Vladimir Zelensky was chosen, and all of us, together. So we need to move together in this direction and the constraints are just the first step, and I think we're going to get to the point where we're going to cut down on a substantial budget salary, and whoever there's not enough of them, let them go into private business and make as much as millions, billions, paying taxes. So, of course, I'm asking my colleagues to support this bill. The second reading will be followed by changes that a colleague of Eugenia has made in particular. So I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u180	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, transparency is, of course, an unbelievably positive feature of today's government, and after this vote, obviously to Parliament. We saw this yesterday when Mr. Vitrenco spoke from this rostrum, who clearly indicated to us that, you see, we're going to be 40 million in the declaration until it's seven days away. And he was right. This man was appointed prime minister of whom, you know, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelensky, as First Vice-Prime Minister. And today, the "ministers" tell us that everything is going to be transparent. Today, the wealth of government managers is known to everyone in Ukraine. Ask them what they are indignant about. Because they're too big. It's on the one side. On the other hand, they boast about their wages and say that they are few. Remember, Novosad and her 36,000 bracelets, for which it's impossible to hold a child, remember, the head of the Cruise Station with his tiny 625th, Koboljev, all the business leaders that are today. People are interested in getting people as simple as they are, not transparency. Well, we'll find out again who gets the big money. We need to make immediate decisions to return to quarantine: 10 minimum is the maximum that the head of the state enterprise can get. This is the norm that the government lifted on October 26th, and returned all the wages that they had before. So, society, let's work out this document and not stop at half a step.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u182	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u183	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Fellows, let's show these heroes to Ukrainian society. Let's finally show them their huge wages that are being paid by members of these supervisory boards. I remember that in the 16th year, a decision was made to corporateize state enterprises. But, colleagues, please tell me where in private businesses that show tremendous damage, there is such an opportunity to pay members or manage businesses. Just think about it. The Crucifixion is minus 8.7 billion. Instead, 15 million dollars are given to people on the supervisory boards. A journalist who's never worked at the Railroad gets over 2 million a month. It's the "snatcher in the gun" and you and I have different pasta writing about you. Colleagues, say, Naftogaz, people get a million dollars a day, they pay their wages, they show a negative 11.5 billion last year. How is this possible in a poor country? The president tried to say when he was choosing to pay the education staff $4,000, instead he didn't stop the very people who were pulling the colossal goods out of the budget. Let's show them, colleagues, Ukrainian society. And I also want to say, "Scrooge" is minus 852 million. Colleagues, ten state - owned enterprises in Dergeokadastra, have shown losses of minus 10 million, but wages are much higher than ministers and deputies. Let's show these heroes to Ukrainian society and support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u184	Thank you. Coltunovich is motivated. Then we go to the vote. Right? Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, we have 100 percent of our support for the idea that these bills and all these payments should be public. But let's move on. We have Bill 4199, which regulates, for example, a member of the Supervisory Board: a basic higher education in the field. If it is a railway, it means a professional, compulsory job experience, not a journalist, but, for example, a railway. This is a mandatory factor: If a business is bankrupt, no one will get paid. One more moment. If a person or another is a Ukrainian citizen there, he may be a member of the Supervisory Board, if there is no citizenship, meaning he walks and defends the interests of foreign countries. And to the end. We are certainly prepared to make proposals to this bill, but please consider 4,199 as one that will regulate payments. And the last. We pay attention to the Cabinet of Ministers, who, under the noise, canceled the limit on ten minimum wages, which we put into budget changes accordingly. So let's go back to that standard, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u186	Thank you. Is everyone ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to ensure the openness of information on the size of the remuneration of public companies (registration No. 3952). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:51:06]] For 282 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question. Dear colleagues, was there no objection to considering, without discussion, 4538, this is a draft law amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Priorities for Science and Technology? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Priorities for Science and Technology (registration number 4538). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:51:56]] For 282 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations of the draft Law amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Priorities for Science and Technology (registration number 4538). Please support and vote. [[12:52:33]] For 284 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. The People's Servant Party – 198, Opposition Platform – Life 16, European Solidarity – 18, Parenthood – 16, Future Party – 4, Voice – 10, Trust – 13, non-fractional – 9. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, we haven't had that in a while. In accordance with article 60 with the 1st Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "For Ukrainian Bessarabia". The headquarters of this union are the national deputies of Ukraine, Anatoly Igorovich, Tetjan Mikhailnovna, and Sergio Valeriyovich. I welcome my colleagues for the creation of a parliamentary union.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u188	Thank you. Gorenjuk Alexander Alexandrovich is from procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u189	Congratulations, fellows of honor! There is a proposal to vote without discussion on Bill 3805. This is confirmed and voted by all factions. These include the cutting of green plants within populated areas. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-29-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, are there any objections? 3805. There's no objection. I am voting on the proposal to change the order of the day to consider the bill (registration number 3805). Please support and vote. [[12:54:32]] For 280 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine, on increasing liability for infringements of the order of removal of green plantings (registration No. 3805). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:55:12]] For 281 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 197, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 16, "European Solidarity" – 18, "The Fatherland" – 14, "The Party for the Future" – 5, "The Voice" – 10, "The Trust" – 15, "The Non-Factional" – 9. Dear colleagues, we have literally three minutes left. In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth vocation will begin its work on February 2, 2021. I declare the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be closed. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Thank you, colleagues. I'll see you Monday and Tuesday.
