ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare to register. I remind you that registration takes place by using the sensor button and the green button, the first button on the left, or the pro button. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you. Are you ready to register? Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:07:06]] There are 223 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I remind you that in accordance with article 25 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of the Ukrainian national deputies with announcements, proposals and messages. Please sign up from the national deputies for the performance. Alexiyczuk Alexander Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u2	Good afternoon, Mr. Head! Good afternoon, colleagues! Alexander Aliksiyczuk, "Slut of the People" faction, 154 constituency, Equinox. I, like every major deputy, am in close communication with our constituents every day. Today, from this rostrum, I would like to say about the problem faced by virtually all parts of the country in the health sector, which is particularly the case in my native Oakenland. I want to address today Mr. Prime Minister Dennis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, and especially Mr. Stepanov's Minister of Health, with a problem concerning the 170-thousand newly created Dubensky region. In the center of the district in Dubno, there is a central district hospital that has been placed under the authority of the Cabinet of Ministers since January 15, 20. And on May 7, 20th, the hospital was designated a hospital for hospitalization of patients with acute respiratory disease COVID-19 first wave. There are currently 180 beds in the hospital to provide hospital medical care to patients with COVID. Over 11.5,000 patients, including 1,141 patients with COVID, have been treated in institutions during 2020. This year, 853 patients have received stationary treatment, of which 205 have received COVID. At the same time, the hospital is virtually not supported by the Ministry of Health to improve its material and technical base, but is being updated exclusively on the basis of its own funds and local budgets, which have already been burdened with insurmountable burdens, including COVID. Neither did funding for the so - called reconstruction of reception facilities, which failed to be implemented, since the cost of 1.5 million came at the end of the year, and the work could not be done due to tight deadlines. The project and the project's expertise were developed at the expense of the local community, including the community of Dubno. In view of this and taking into account the great burden on the hospital, taking into account the key role of the institution in combating the pandemic in Dubai, I ask for the allocation of funds to support the material and technical base (with such a call to Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Health) and the reconstruction of the restored structure of the reception department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u3	The word is given to National Deputy Bragar Eugene Vadimovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u4	I give you the word of Blackmore.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u5	Black lobsters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u6	Thank you, Chairman. Good morning, distinguished national deputies, good morning, people of Ukraine! I address Mr. Prime Minister. Dear Denise Anatolyovich, when will you begin to fulfill your obligations to men? People are already tired, tired of your idleness about the problem that's around the 30-mile zone, which is the risk zone, which is the area around the four nuclear power plants. 880,000 people have lost 30 percent of their electricity today. These are four areas that I will no longer remind you of. And you know that these people don't know how to defend their rights in a civilized way anymore, except how to go and cover the roads. Which, I think, if we have moments before we solve this issue more civilizedly, we should go to them. And there's only one thing in their minds right now, what they're getting from television. That's what this 880,000, that's 2 percent of the population of Ukraine, compensates those debts that are now hanging over Centrenergo and Energoate. You pick people's pockets. And you know, Denise Anatolyovich, the next thing you know, you once said to me these words, "And these people, what are they, special people?".. And I'll tell you what. First, they're special because when they look at the window, they don't see the forest, the sea or the mountains, they see the red color of the energy cloud. Secondly, these people are special because when you come to them to agree to continue the energy efficiency and the activity of the use of the energy cloud, they have to give you consent. And they tell you what they're telling you: we'll give you a gourd. And thirdly, the President of Ukraine has commissioned you to build the third, fourth energy cloud of the Hmeln nuclear power plant. And you know that you're going to have to agree with the 30km zone, the people living in observation, these questions. And for now, they have the question: Should you agree? Because consent can only be in your thoughts and not be seen as your ears. So you've already been given solutions to this problem by the nuclear power interfractional association -- a law that continues to compensate for a 30 percent reduction in electricity. That's why I'm addressing you as Minister of Energy, Mr. Vitrenco, to you, Mr. Prime Minister. Please, you do not have much time to solve the immediate social problem for people living in these four areas. Thank you very much. Black Sea Artem, 131 district.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u7	The word is given to the National Deputy Sukhov Aleksandro Sergiyyovich, the MP's "Trust". Shahov Sergei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u8	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, Ukraine today is plagued by the 20th century, the 21st century, with a transition from there. Please tell me, people are dying, an epidemic, unemployment, hunger, cold, and today, coal miners are standing under the walls of the Ministry of Energy. Who will answer to families who are now starving, mining families who have not yet received a salary? And another invasion of these families: Mine managers forced miners to write applications for free leave. What is it, say, about bullying people, working as a simple worker, after all, can anyone explain? I'm turning to all the miners of the East, to the President of Ukraine, because only today can he intervene in this situation, solve this problem. Why is it not paid to the workers? Why does a mother who takes charge of electricity beat her in the process today? Why are people today unable to pay tariffs? Why are people in need today, unable to receive a free vaccine? Why are they in need today when they die in hospitals without drugs? Why do people today suffer in our country? Ukraine joins five of the world's richest nations for useful fossils, five of them -- why such a rich country and such poor people? I'm explaining because there's not a safety net, there's theft in power, right there in the Cabinet of Ministers. And today, raise your hand in this room, dear fellows, which of you has raised your tariffs? I'll tell you what, none of you picked them up. So why is everyone silent about raising tariffs, that today's trouble in our country? Why is it that today the boards of officials go to the Pension Fund and demand 2.5 billion dollars, you know what? To pay the people who didn't get the hospital from the Pension Fund. Twenty-seven prime ministers have changed, and all their warriors are squandering into the Pension Fund. Why there is a silver economy in Europe, people travel, and there are pensioners who die and dress up in their beds in the winter because of battery problems. People today are afraid to look at this paper, the paper, at these bills. To what time will this occur? I'm being asked about gas storage, you're talking 33 million cubic meters of gas deposits, you're buying in the spring, you're selling in winter three times the cost, and you're feeding people for free, you're giving free gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u9	Please, instead of Boyka Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear Chairman! 81 billion, or more, debts for utilities today. What that means is let's be honest that people can't pay their payments. In the wake of the rise in tariffs, subsidies are declining. And if you don't pay, people are probably scaring the sickest that they're going to have an apartment, that they're going to be users in their own apartment. Don't you have a conscience! Scaring people by taking the last one's apartment! So today we demand that we hold an extraordinary session and discuss tariff policies in our country so that the tariffs are what people deserve. The Ukrainian gas of its own production, at which the state spends its money, is to give money to the people. And there are numerous bills -- both from Boyko, from Timoshenko, and from other colleagues. Let us think about people, not just what they are called servants. Because unfortunately, we've got COVID in everything. To this day, we don't know what conditions that Covishield bought for. I'm not going to talk about his quality right now. I would like to say hello to the head of the U.S. Marine Corps, and we need him to be healthy. We're sorry. But let him explain what this 60 - percent vaccine is, and what should be done to those who will receive another 40 percent after the vaccination? By the way, he was also ill after vaccination, but let him recover and return. I believe that today, when people need to know the truth, to know what awaits them, to shut their mouths to journalists in a totally illegal, distorted way, not because of the courts, as provided by the law, where evidence is to be brought, but because we are appointed by terrorists. After the appointment, we have not seen any evidence of any terrorist activity for the second month. And the channels are closed for this very reason, and someone will answer for that. If not today, exactly tomorrow, and there are examples. I recall President Zelensky's words about Dustenk: "I am your judgment." Vladimir Aleksandrovich, I have the impression that Dusty will be your judgment and, unfortunately, very soon. Therefore, think of people, not just as servants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u11	Umerov Rustem Enverovich. Password novel Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u12	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Dear Ukrainians! Today I would like to ask each of you. Do you feel safe? Do you feel that if you and your loved ones suddenly experience a problem, you will be able to protect yourself and achieve justice? And while you're thinking about the answer to that question, I'd like to give you some scary numbers from the polls that are in the open source. During the year 44 percent of Ukrainians lost their sense of security. The courts now trust only less than 2 percent of Ukrainians. And it's a verdict, it's a trial, and it's a sentence for the law enforcement system. If you are under the cover of Habakkuk, of course, you feel secure. If you have received the blessing of Venice, of course, justice on your part. But if you criticize valid authority, if you criticize Habakkuk or Venice, you are immediately followed by persecution. And I want to remind everyone and everyone that today, both Andrew Antonenko and Sergey Sternenko and hundreds of other Ukrainians, who are today political prisoners, remain hostages of the system. Their detention at the WHO today is totally illegal, and I will explain why. The verdict that both Andrew Antonenko and Sergey Sternka want to make is automatically stopped from filing an appeal. But the judges don't care. Judges have been illegally detained and deprived of their will to this day. On March 20, Sergio Sternek will be 26 years old. And if nothing changes, he'll meet them behind bars. I want to address the President of Ukraine today. Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski, you are the guarantor of the Constitution and the guarantor of human rights. You guarantee that you will fight against illegal court decisions or the illegal actions of individual converts in mantiacs. You have to get involved in such matters. On Sergey Sternenko's right, on Andrew Antonenko's right, it's up to all of us. So I urge all Ukrainians to come to the peace action on March 20th under the President's Office on Saturday at 8:00. It's 7:00 p.m. for each of us to show our stand in the fight for justice. The fight is ongoing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u13	The trip of Dmitri Sergiyovich. Frolov Paul Valerijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u14	Dear Ukrainians! Yesterday, you were the victims of corrective terror. Every bracelet you paid for Parliament's work has been ineffectively spent. The representatives of the Fatherland and the OPCW have once again blocked the work of Parliament with corrective spam. The political forces that for decades have been cracking down on "siri" and "black" land schemes that from the State and the State made their own enrichment tool today are not allowing local communities to manage 10 million hectares of state land outside the population. Bureaucratic procedures are prevented from simplifying the landscape and eliminating artificial restrictions on the population and business of farming on earth. They won't let the inequity of decommissioning take place in the Dergeocadaster and turn it from the institution of top corruption into a European institution from the formation and representation of Ukraine's lands. Yesterday, 2.5 hours later, we only went from 3.5 thousand amendments to 2194. According to the Rules, we have only 13 working hours during the plenary week. At such a pace, we, and taking into account the calendar of the session, are only going out in May for the final vote in general on this project. Another important project on land auctions can only be considered in early June. More than 800 amendments have also been made to this project. Colleagues, it's not called parliamentaryism, it's not about trying to convince colleagues of the correctness or greater effectiveness of a rule of law. It's a return to corrective terror, blackmail and parliamentary obstruction. And on the general undesigned, the scroll of the same plates that we had heard a year ago, during the adoption of land reform, there must be a hard answer from the monotonous. Therefore, there is no need to negotiate now or to plan the holding of first-line sessions for the adoption of important bills. We have no right in front of our electorate to wait a few months and observe this unprecedented blockade of parliament. If colleagues do not bring good sense to Parliament, we may vote in full compliance with the Rules today or tomorrow in favour of the continuation of the plenary session before the conclusion of the consideration of the matter or to collect signatures for the inclusion of the issue in the order of the extraordinary session. The marathon is a marathon. I am confident that the majority will endure the test through the day - to - day work of Parliament. And the last. Let us improve the special procedure for consideration of drafts in the second reading. As early as last year, we adopted a project that envisions a special procedure, five amendments from each faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u15	The two factions ask for the right to reply in connection with their reference. "Paternal" and "PIC." Who will act? Timoshenko from "The Fatherland," and from the OPCW it'll be Nestor Ivanovich, I get it. Please, Julia Volodymyrna, one minute and then Nestor Ivanovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u16	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Now there's a shabbash in Parliament after the law on the sale of agricultural land to foreigners without the control of the state. In effect, agricultural land is allowed to sell especially valuable land, and it is granted the right to remove the upper layer of land of the Blacklands and everything else. And that's what they call legal activity! We are trying to make amendments to leave Ukraine, under the Ukrainian nation's right to own Ukrainian agricultural land. And now the ruling faction has suggested that amendments should be made in general and that they should not be allowed to take away the most valuable wealth from the Ukrainians in order to be quiet. There's a hundred people sitting in the hall right now, and they're trying to run the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u17	Nestor Ivanovich, please. One minute, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u18	Listen, "servants," I recommend the question and the word "terrorism" is correct, especially from the members of the regulatory committee, to be forgotten in this room forever! The evidence, go to court. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, I'm going to talk to these members of the regulatory committee in the language that you're hearing, because you don't hear any more Ukrainian. What do you think you're doing?Oh, my God! There are regulations, there are rights of national deputies. So gather the PNB and here, let's just punish directly for being MPs, doing our jobs, protecting people, protecting the land from your derby! So I advise you, get your hands on it and stay in this mess! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u19	Oksana Vasilovna's owl.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u20	Oksana Savchuk, 83th constituency, Ivano-Frankish. Today, I want to raise a question that concerns the screaming of every community, that is the debt of payment to doctors through NSO packets. All of you know that in January, only 50 percent of the contract was paid for the salaries of the guided package. Only 50 percent in January. In February, 30 percent of the contract was already paid by NSOs, and the debt amounted to 70 percent. And in March, only 20 percent of the planned 100 percent of the hedge fund in the hospital came in. Now, you and I understand very well today that there's a trend that in April months we're going to get to 10 percent, and in May it's going to be zero. How can you respond quickly to the problems of the Coronavirus when the medical community has paid 50 percent a month, the second month 30, and the next month 20 percent of the amount that should be right? Who do we want to fool today? First of all, doctors. To look them in the eye and tell them with one hand how much we value their work and with the other hand not to pay the wages? It seems to me that this is the homage of a higher proportion. And this is a question we need to raise with the Prime Minister first. Because the Ministry of Finance and NSOs should make every effort to close January, February and March 100 percent of the contract in the code package. Next thing. This is education. You know, the Treasury banned the Treasury from registering a creditor. And from April of the month, actually, the payout for the education community is going to come up with a big question. For example, Ivano-Franksky will have a debt of 120 million. Instead, 100 million will go through subsidies, and 20 million will do their best to translate local self-government into something that will not be registered by the creditor in the treasury. And 20 million are families that can't get paid, more than 10,000 people who won't get paid. And the third question. They're entrepreneurs who are now closed in red zones and realize that there's no one to expect them today. Because if we cannot provide a guaranteed payment to doctors, what can we talk about from this rostrum and high materials? Let us move as our conscience requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u21	Zupanin Andriy Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u22	Good morning, dear fellows! Well, what we're going to talk about today is a new problem in the electricity market. It's about the production of electricity by utility power plants. So, as you know, since July 1, 2019, there is a segment of the electricity market in Ukraine, and it has a segment of bilateral contracts. There's a private generation that sells generated electricity for their own consideration by the counterparties they define and at the prices they want. Yet there is a state generation that operates transparently and that sells produced electricity on the market at prices that are essentially set by the market. But the law did, on purpose or not, shed another form of ownership of the electric power generator. And that's what utility thermal power plants are all about. A few facts about heat power plants. First. Their total total power is equal to the power of several blocks of nuclear power plants. The other one. Most of them are in communal property, that is, in the communities where they are located. And the third. These manufacturers are implementing electricity without any control from the community. For example, let's think about what this could lead to. So today, Kyivoblanergo's debt, Kyivpleenergo's debt to NAK Naftogaz Ukraine is almost 10 billion dollars. Electricity is delivered at prices below the market price. And in addition, they implement this electricity to traders, who then resell it to private and public companies, and that surplus, the margin or the profitability is not in the utility business, but it's actually in the private traders. We believe that government and municipal property should be transparent and effective. Citizens, as well as residents of the area where these companies are located, who are actually shareholders of these enterprises, need to know how effectively management manages these companies and how effectively these companies are being implemented and costed. So we have a proposal, I'm going to ask you to join this proposal, to register changes to legislation that would balance the activities of the state generation, that is, state companies that produce electricity with utility power plants. In this regard, we look forward to more coming, more coming to local budgets, which can contribute to the development of areas. We stand for transparent and efficient activities both by state and by utility companies. So please join this initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u23	The word is given to National Deputy Guzu Igor Volodimirovich, "The Party for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u24	Igor Gus, 19th constituency, Volin. I want to turn from this rostrum to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Arsen Awakov. The point is that I have been asking Arsen Borisovich for three years to consider an exception to the deployment of a police unit in Novovolinsk. This is my constituency, this is a mining town. The city, which in Western Ukraine, sadly, occupies or is not the first to spread drug abuse, AIDS, domestic crime, and many other problems. I understand that there is a concept of the expansion of the police force, and in Volina there are such units located in the city of Lutsk, the district center, and the city of Koveli. But I would very much like to look at the possibility of forming a group that would come to study the situation. We have a new area of Volodymyr Wallinsky, and in fact, the city of Novovolinsk definitely needs this, in fact, unit today. Let's say it's 30 to 40 people in a special warehouse, let's say it's literally a few cars. The city authorities, the newly elected city of Novovolinska, the city’s head, Boris Karpus, are in fact willing to contribute as much as possible to the search for a room, to the allocation of additional fuel and other, as it were, expenses of this unit. But this need, it's in time before I ask Arsen Borisovich to consider this possibility. Dates of Tseus, so that, literally, next week, a commission will come from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Police, the Patrol Police, together, will study this situation. Please involve me, I'm willing to contribute as much as I can to the city of Novovolinsk to the police station. I'm convinced that in exceptional cases where there are multiple side factors, when there are many side factors, this is an exception that can change this concept of the spread of patrol police and go to meet the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u25	Thank you, Your Honor, time is up. Let's go to. Let's get back to the day-to-day issues. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, 161 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u26	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to point out that in these amendments, and why we insist on these amendments, there are very important standards that, for example, make it impossible, including the activity and development of local communities. Because so much has been said about this subject, and I would like to set a simple example. In 2018, the adoption of a new method of monetary valuation led to the reduction in the value of this single - hectare monetary estimate from 32,000 to 27, even 24,000 dollars in individual regions. You have to understand that this has happened accordingly and that it's reducing revenue just for the local budgets. Thus, they deserve attention. That's the first one. The other one. Mr. Head, I'm drawing your attention here, it turns out we're being accused of terrorism. I'm not going to refer to the regulatory committee, I'm going to answer it as I think it's necessary. And when I'm being accused, and my colleagues in terrorism, we'll also respond properly. Because you either prove it, or prove it in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u27	Ready to vote? I'm betting on the 161th Coltunovich vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:40:57]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next line, Koltunović, 162.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u28	Thank you. Mr. Head, we had some literature brought here yesterday, our colleague Nikolaynko showed us the literature that we need to read in order to make the right decisions. I would like to present to you, in his example, a collection of the National Institute of Agrarian Economics of National Science, a monograph called the "Selian Question – From Community Land History to Expansion of Agroholdings." So here's what's happening today in Ukraine, the expansion of agroholdings, all legislative initiatives, they're aimed at increasing agroholdings, creating a monopoly, increasing monopolies, and there's no way we have this promised demonization. So, in our view, this is an exclusive issue that needs to be considered in detail, and so we will continue to insist on our amendments in order to prevent the expansion of agroholdings and not to prove the poverty of peasants in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u29	Thank you. 162. The Coltunovich Committee's amendment is rejected. Please identify and vote. [[10:42:28]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next line, Volosin, 163. Don't insist. No, Volosin, it's not. 164th, Shinkarenko. Don't insist. Vlasenko, 165th. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u30	Thank you, Mr. Head. You know, I think before anyone is accused of "spam terrorism," we have to stop "legislative terrorism."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u31	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u32	We have to stop "legislative terrorism" when the whole country is trapped in unconstitutional, non-pectical, unprofessional, looting and corruption laws. A clear example of such is the bill that we are currently considering. This bill not only deprives Ukrainian farmers of the possibility of becoming owners of Ukrainian agricultural land on competitive grounds, but also undermines the system of State control over compliance with environmental and land legislation. When a system of functions is completely balanced, a system of powers that was in the state that was in the local self-government of different levels, and when government control of the use of any land, including agricultural land, is removed altogether. My amendment is about that. Please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u33	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm voting 165 Vlasta. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:44:42]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 168 law, Coltunovich. Let's see the factions. Turn the coltunovich on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, why is the importance of such land laws in Ukraine at all? Because today we have 31 million agricultural holdings in private property. In government property, more than 10 - 10.4, to be exact, although this figure is now slightly decreasing. In the utility, 25,000 hectares, in the collective, 17.4 hectares. Today, however, if we are talking about land that is owned by public utilities, this law is breaking out a number of points: what is particularly important land, or where other research organizations are located, and so on. So from this point of view, in our view, the impossibility of such steps that take these lands or allow them to change their target assignments, or anything else, they should also be legally impossible to further alienate them. That's why we're actually going through the repairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u35	168 of Coltunović's law. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:46:13]] For-55 For -155. The decision is not taken. Next line, Batenko, 169th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, we are for parliamentary work and for parliamentary discussion. And when one of your colleagues is talking about "parliamentary terrorism," it's obviously not a parliamentary term, and there's no need to manipulate it. I want to say that if we take in the Dergeocadastro's non-proprietary functions, and today the Dergeocadastre is actually disbursing the land, you have to agree with this 169th law, which proposes not to exclude rural, rural, city councils and their implementing bodies from coordinating the activities of the local authorities of land resources, and not to take control over the use and protection of land of municipal property, compliance with land and environmental legislation. Because communities today have full responsibility for the economic and social development of their territories. I'd like a colleague to support this amendment, 169th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u37	Batenko Taras Ivanovich, 169. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:47:37]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 172, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u38	Thank you, Mr. Head. Regarding the arrival of funds from the sale of land and Ukraine’s budget. We've seen the dynamics that, in actual and comparative prices, these numbers have dropped pretty significantly. That's the first one. The other one. If we're talking about the value of the land that's going to be today. Which will be sold as of July 1, 2021, and those numbers, which are called $2,000, are also much higher today. And it's estimated by experts that agrarian scientists call those figures no more than a thousand, thousands of dollars on average across the country. Therefore, in our view, implementing land reform or so - called land reform in today’s conditions is pointless, shortsighted. Well, and frankly, it's not possible to talk about the economic effect of that. So first of all, we insist that the authorities prepare projects that relate to irrigation, the promotion of manufacturing, animal production, and so on rather than the sale of Ukrainian land. Thank you and please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u39	Thank you. I bet on the vote 172th amendment of the People's Deputies of Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:49:10]] For-58 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 173, is the Krasov People's Deputy. Don't insist. Next amendment 174, Dubyl. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u40	Valérie Dubyl, Fatherland faction. I welcome everyone to the start of a strictly Passover post, and I want you and I to at least think about it at this time and do good things for the Ukrainian people. Let's take down all the bills that apply to the sale of our Ukrainian land. The position of our political power is to protect the Ukrainian people, not to consider in general the bill concerning the sale of Ukrainian land. Endure the promises you promised to the Ukrainian people: first the referendum, and then, if even the sale, only the Ukrainian people, or the government agency, which will sell or rent to the Ukrainian people. This project clears the standard for especially valuable land (under forests, waterholes, national parks, reserves), that is, full sale, or it allows the land to be used by the owner himself who purchased the land. Our political power of the Fatherland is absolutely against it. Please set up a maintenance amendment. To the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u41	There is 174 amendments to the People's Deputy Dubyl vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:50:59]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 175. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u42	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, do you know when you hear from the stand the charges against the opposition that they've filed, so please tell me, don't our regulations improve the legislation you've proposed? Didn't you promise to do inventory? We're improving this story with our rights. Are we not talking about the sale of rent rights and the possibility of people renting state land? Our regulations say that. Aren't you and I saying that we need to get everything directly into the cadastre so that we don't have land without a master who will be using local officials tomorrow? Colleagues, doesn't Fatherland have been fighting for the land to be passed on to the territorial communities since the 15th year? And that's what we're doing, and that's our constitutional right. And we're even surprised when we're accused of making improvements to the law. It's not our fault.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u43	175 Law of the People’s Deputy Ivchenka The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:52:33]] For-64 For - 164. The decision is not taken. 176 law, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u44	Yvchenko, Fatherland. My colleagues, I mean, we have to open the market for the Ukrainian farmer, for the Ukrainian farmer, and for the man who works on the ground. This law makes us some kind of corporation of Ukrainian farming. We today have a clear understanding that two geopolitical countries are in contact with Ukraine, and we have to be quite active in protecting national interests. The land must be supplied to the Ukrainian producer and to the Ukrainian farmer. And it's important to us, colleagues, that we start with a farm support programme, so that the Ukrainian Farm Development Fund can allocate funds. And you put zero in the budget for the Ukrainian Farm Fund. This means that farmers do not receive help in buying land. Zero in the Ukrainian Farming Fund is budgeted for today. And Fatherland offered to allocate money.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u45	176 law, Yvchenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:54:08]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next thing you know, Schrum. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Labunski. Black lobsters, 179 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u46	Good morning, dear fellows! Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Look, I hear a lot of lines about this bill. But everyone forgets the main thing. Firstly, the main novelty of this bill, I repeat, is deregulation from the geocadastra and transfer of land to all communities, which will then become communal property in the future. People in the community will be able to manage these lands, rent them, manage them the way they want, and the main thing is to earn the profits of the community. And this is the basis of decentralization, because communities are becoming independent and can provide for themselves. And I'm asking you all to join in, because that's the main thing. We promised people that they would become independent in their places and provide for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u47	I'm betting on the 179th Amendment of the Black Sea Artem Olegovich. Don't insist. 181 law, Kucher. Don't insist. 188th, Shufrich. Don't insist. Are you insisting? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u48	I insist. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Of course, I insist, especially after being called "regulatory terrorists." We're called "real terrorists" in the RNB. We're called "regulatory terrorists" in the Soviet Union. I would like to remind you that in my time, calling terrorists my political opponents, Fascism was born in Europe. So be amazed at these names and appointments as terrorists! And, Mr. Reporter, I was asked yesterday, about which Sevastopol City Council I'm talking about, what call. So I'll tell you about our Ukrainian and our Ukrainian Sevastopol! So, please, if you're dumping the land to foreigners, at least hold on to the face murder, as Kravczuk said.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u49	I'm betting on the 188th amendment of the Shufric People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:57:13]] For-47
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u50	The decision is not taken. Next line, Bondarenko. Don't insist. A carpenter. Don't insist. Nestor Ivanovich, there's no more of yours. Lukashev. Don't insist. You're an outcast. 192nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u51	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. I insist on this amendment. And, honourable citizens of Ukraine, the Fatherland faction emphasizes the main one. This is not just your land. On this earth, you were first robbed of your right to rule. Second, the land around every village, every city, beginning with the Carpathians and ending with the east of Ukraine, see how much soil has been corrupted, how much has been degraded. As we insist, the earth must first be restored, compensated to the united territorial communities, and only then would it be possible to question the earth’s market. The Fatherland faction insists that you people should own the land. The authorities have to compensate for the damage. Then the universal referendum on the earth. And only after that is the consideration of the Supreme Council. I insist on the right hand and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u52	192 requisitions, Nadvajchenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:58:57]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Lukashev. And Pauline. Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u53	Dear Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u54	Sorry, it's number 193.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In fact, my right is to improve the draft law that we are considering today. As I recall, unfortunately, there are many inconsistencies in this law, both with the Constitution and with other legislation. In addition, I would like to remind you that this law repeals the requirements for the purpose of the use of agricultural land, repeals the prohibition of the transfer of such land to the property of foreigners, excludes the notion of "particularly valuable land". And in fact, a large part of my amendments are designed to protect Ukrainian peasants, to protect especially valuable fertile Ukrainian lands. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u56	I am betting on a vote of 193 amendments to the national deputies of Lukasheva, Pavelek. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:00:29]] For-53 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u57	The next amendment is Batenka's 194.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u58	I'd like the committee head to comment on my amendment. What's this about? We have to this day an uncontrollable extraction of sand and gravel, in fact in every area, especially in my native country of Lviv, at Streščina, at Mikolayevščina, at Skoljevščina, and so on. No one is responsible. This bill changes where from the power of the central executive authority we take state control over the conduct of construction, bottom-up, sand and gravel mining, cables, pipelines, communications, and so on. This bill does not offer us another authority to control these actions. In fact, it will. Will this lead to a significant deterioration in the environment, primarily rivers, lakes, ponds, and so forth? I ask the chairman of the committee to comment on the draft and to put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u59	194 Batenka is not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:01:57]] For-83 The decision is not taken. 195 straight, Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, I was surprised to see in the media this morning a statement by one of the majority members of the press that the opposition is insisting on its rights to this land law, it turns out, the downsizing of municipal tariffs is collapsing. I wonder if anyone in this room has seen a bill this week that relates to lowering municipal tariffs? That's the first one. The other one. Well, someone thinks that people are idiots, they don't understand that utility tariffs are a matter of government and national regulators. And if the government wanted it and the authorities wanted it, they'd have cut it down a long time ago, and it doesn't even need a decision from the Supreme Council. So please, fellow believers, it is especially surprising that I have heard this from a deputy, to whom I, in principle, respect. Well, let's not manipulate. What are the utility tariffs, and why is this earth codex here? So these are completely different questions, and we're really going to keep insisting on what we're doing. Please place a few of my ballot papers there all without comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u61	195 law. We can put a few to the vote right away, right? 195 I'm putting it to a vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:03:31]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 196 line of Volosin. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:03:52]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 197 Volosin line. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:04:21]] For-47 The decision is not taken. 198 line of Volosin. Please identify and vote. [[11:04:48]] For-52 The decision is not taken. 199 law, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u62	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to address the Ukrainians now. Parliament is now being pushed forward, a bill is being passed on to sell agricultural land. This bill provides for unacceptable things. First. The state’s full control over agricultural land is being lifted. The other one. The earth will be passed on to foreign banks. The sale of especially valuable land is allowed: forests, waters, Blacklands, everything is being taken down. One metre of soil, a layer of the upper ground, is allowed when it was prohibited in the codex. In addition, agriculture is completely destroyed and cleansed. Even those 50 hectares of misery that seemed to farmers would now be taken away and demanded money. I'm asking the Ukrainians to pass this information on to one of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u63	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u64	Today the issue of control is often mentioned, and now in the speech of Julia Volodymyrna and, Mr. Taras, you actually have no control issue, I'll explain why. The functions of government control in the remaining cadastra are to monitor compliance with land rights, to remove fertile soil, to compensate for loss of agricultural and forestry production, to carry out recycling, and so on. The OTG is given two powers: it's self-absorbing and aimless use. Ecoinspection and environmental control remain. The O.G. is given this authorization, obviously they're the owner of the most interested in these two important control functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, first of all, we don't have one Julia Volodymyrable in the hall. This time. No last name was given. First of all, they're talking to a colleague. Well, colleagues, let's not get involved. There'll be adjustments, you'll continue to perform. 199. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:07:28]] For-63 The decision is not taken. No 199 revision supported. Bogdan. Don't insist. Torchty. Don't insist. It's stuck. Don't insist. Germany. Shufrich, 207.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u66	Thank you. Your Honor, I'm about to have three corrections in a row, and I'm asking all three of you to give me a speech. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ruslan. Mr. Ruslan, two amendments to 184 and 188 have been missed, so after this amendment, I ask you to go back to them. I insisted on the performance. Dear colleagues, I am one of your colleagues who voted in favour of the Earth Code. Today, the earth code provides for the protection of the rights of our citizens, constitutional rights to use and rule the earth, so as not to be stolen, and not to be embezzled under various circumstances. That is why we are now insisting that the standards of the current Earth Code, which protect the rights of our citizens, be preserved in a new edition. If that is not the case, hundreds of thousands of our citizens will actually lose their own rations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u67	I'm betting on the 207 vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:09:21]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Timishenko, the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u68	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Now I want to deny what they're saying about this law, about the sale of land, as if this law is the transfer of land to communities, it's the use of agricultural land for the benefit of communities and people. It's all a big lie. To correct this lie, open the law and read it. In the Ukrainian nation, they're taking away a completely fertile land that can give us millions of jobs, food security to provide, organic production, to give us hundreds of billions of euros in income. Now that this law has been passed, the Ukrainian land will make a profit to the global and national oligarchy. And our farmers, our farmers, our peasants, our uniforms -- all those who could make a penny of it and bring income to Ukraine -- are wiped out of their lives. Do not vote for this law!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u69	207 law, so is Schuffritch. Nestor Ivanovich, don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u70	I insist, yes. Dear Mr. Head, unfortunately, two of my amendments were missed 184 and 188. I raise my hand, I want to read the amendment now, but it's very long, so please give me the opportunity to finish it. It will show what we are fighting for by keeping the earth’s code in force. "The establishment of a central executive body that implements public policy and the exercise of State control in the field of environmental protection, rational use, reproduction and protection of natural resources in the field -- attention! – land relations with the competence of the central executive authority, which implements public policy and State control (control) in the field of environmental protection, rational use, distribution and protection of natural resources in the field."..
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u71	Nestor Ivanovich is not. I'm betting on the 208th Schuffritch vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:12:20]] For-47 The decision is not taken. 209. Right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u72	The powers of the central authority I spoke of belong to attention! – the exercise of State control over the compliance of executive authorities and local authorities, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, citizens of Ukraine – onward, attention! – foreign and stateless persons, as well as foreign legal persons, who require legislation on land use and protection. Please tell me, how can we vote against this? Well, explain to me! I was among those national MPs who voted in battle for this Earth Codex to distribute the entire Supreme Council! It's not as comfortable as now that you're only listening to the truth and sneezing at it, sorry! We fight for human rights so that their lands are not looted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u73	209. Right. The committee is not supported. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:13:50]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Kabachenko, 211.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u74	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. Colleagues, once again, "legislative terrorism" is when a majority of the people are forced to live their own private interests, trying to push out a law that no one expects among Ukrainians at all. And the other manifestation of "legislative terrorism" is when the Fatherland and opposition factions pass, they register 40 bills for inclusion in the agenda of the fifth session, and you include only one. This is a direct expression of "legislative terrorism." And so if you're not terrorists, we're all going to be totally complex in doing our job. Now back to my work. Once again, you're cleaning up another dual function of the Ministry of Profiles and handing over this function to the State Commission. Do you not feel that the creation of a new land monster does not match the realities of today’s Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u75	211th Kabachenko line. I'll put it to a vote, please identify and vote. [[11:15:22]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 212 law, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u76	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, it's important how this law will continue to work in the community. "Fatherland" for handing over land to the territorial communities. But the de jure is going to be passed on, and the de facto communities are not going to be able to manage these lands. I've already said 55 percent of the land is leased, 25 percent is leased up to 15. The crowds will not be able to cope with the fact that these leases remain. Fatherland's edits talked about how we can put the economy into the villages -- that is, land tax formation -- some criteria to be set up, rent payments can be increased, too, if the communities consider it necessary where minimum interest contracts are needed. That's what Fatherland says. What matters to us is how the country will live after this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u77	I'll bet you 212 Yvchenka's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:16:56]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 213 correct, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u78	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues and one more question. The land, when passed over to the territorial communities, and "The Fatherland has insisted on this since 2015, they are further determined by this law how they will be sold and bought. Colleagues, you failed, first, inventory. You have not done it, and many lands will be without ownership and will be ruled by local corrupters. You and I have not undertaken a global reform of the law enforcement system, and today's farmer and peasants will not be protected from raiding. There is no justice in the courts. These are also judgments of judgment that will have a clear effect on certain schemes that will take place in the earth. All of it. It's a financial-credit system. Colleagues, it has to be cheap to buy land, and farmers have to have access first-hand to buy. And the state has to put money into the farm fund. It's not done.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u79	I'll bet you 213 Ichchenka's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:27]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Volosin, 215 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, well, I think everyone knows that democracy is, above all, a dictatorship of procedure. Therefore, thank God that is in our Rules and our Constitution is guaranteed, including the right of opposition to bring legal proceedings and thus to require, indeed, detailed and thorough consideration of any bill, not to vote on it in the turbines. Because otherwise, without a dictatorship of procedure, there is simply a dictatorship and a complete defamation of the law when you just want to do something. For example, while we were working here for the last days, it appears that the Ukrainian Security Service conducted some searches at the Supreme Council in connection with the Kharkiv Treaties. What were they looking for here? The egg shells that we then threw at the speaker, Lithuania, or what? Well, it's just full of nonsense. Even if you vote for these totally anti-national rights to the code, you will not be responsible for this, because the Constitution guarantees the right of the MP not to be responsible for the results of his vote. If we don't know it in our PNB and SBU, why do we need it?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u81	I'll bet you 215 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:02]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 216 law, Timoshenko. Don't insist. Yvchenko, 217 law. Because, colleagues, you either talk then. You're talking to each other, dear colleagues. 216 law, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u82	The Fatherland faction, Julia Timoshenko. Dear citizens of Ukraine, the law on the sale of agricultural land is now being passed in this room. You remember very well that when President Zelenski was in office, he said that all issues relevant to the country would be held through a referendum, and then they would only be put to the vote in the hall. You can see that for more than two years, the President is in office, there is no referendum law. And without the people's decision, the sale of rough hammocks against Ukraine's interests is now being made through parliament, without a referendum. Moreover, a bill supported by the Supreme Council to hold a referendum has no longer been signed by the President for one and a half months because they are extending this law today, which is depriving Ukraine of the last impact on its agricultural land. We don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u83	I'll bet you 216 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:21:47]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 217 law, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u84	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the land is now used for instantaneous profit. No one thinks about the fertility of the soil. Today, scientists are alarmed that our fertility rate is declining. Colleagues, for whom do we open the earth’s market? For a farmer who doesn't have the money today and who doesn't have the money to buy his own pies, for a farmer you're taking from the land and trying to sell it to? For the peasant you're running today through a tariff genocide to pay extra these indirect taxes? Colleagues or Foreigners? I want to remind you that large agrarian holdings now own 4 million acres [4 million ha] of land. This is the square of Switzerland. Here they will buy Ukrainian land under this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u85	217 revisions, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:15]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 218th Amendment, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u86	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, one of the promises of the majority, was the adoption of the Law on the Fund for Farming, where we were to anticipate the cost to farmers for the purchase of Ukrainian land. So this fund was turned into a bit of a metaphor. You can't create a fund for today, but you're creating an insurance company for banks, calling it a farm support fund. Colleagues, please read into the legislation that you are offered, for this law will have millions of people selling land and thousands of people buying land. And the important thing for us to be Ukrainians is that we have a clear national interest here. It is important for us to have the first priority right behind the Ukrainian farmer and the manufacturer. And the main thing is that we have a village: not a new village to build, but a village to keep. And when the ground comes out of the hammer, the villages.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u87	I'm betting on vote number 218, Yvchenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:52]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Coltunovich, 220 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u88	I ask you to pass the word to Zagradni, co-author of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u89	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u90	Thank you. Yuri Zagradny, political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Today, just like a year ago in this room, there is a sharp discussion about the fate of the Ukrainian land. You know, all this time, I've had a lot of communication with the heads of Ukrainian agrarian universities, with the management of the Ukrainian agrarian academy, and with the management of the Institute for Agricultural Economics of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. I asked if domestic experts were involved in the drafting of laws and laws that open up the market for Ukrainian land. And I got the answer: no, no, no. And there was another answer that these laws were developed in the International Monetary Fund. If this is true, it is really anti - Ukrainian laws that take over the land of the Ukrainian people. More so with the 2194 bill you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u91	The vote is amended by 220 national deputies Koltunović and Zagradny. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:34]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 221, Shinkarenko. Don't insist. Next 222, Volosin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u92	Colleagues, I think we've all heard a clear promise from the President of Ukraine that the issue of land sales. Although, in principle, we think, like some other opposition factions, that, in principle, the creation of the land market should be the subject of a referendum. But at the very least, it was promised by the President that the issue of selling land to foreigners would be the subject of a referendum. But what we see today, even with these changes to the Earth Code, is that actually there are rules that will allow legal persons, foreigners, not physical ones, this, by the way, nobody is particularly afraid, but legal persons to own Ukrainian land. That's what it was all about. That's why there's a major reason why we don't accept these changes. Because it seems that the transfer of land to communities is making the access of foreign owners, foreign transnational holdings, to Ukrainian land much easier. That's why we ask you once again to think about it, because it's going to take a lot of responsibility for it, including, by the way, for the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u93	There is 222 amendments to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:28:10]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 223, Black Sea. Don't insist. 224th, Kutcher. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u94	225th. It's a royal one. Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u95	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, in fact, this right and a number of others who follow it, it refers to improving and creating the normal functioning of those authorities responsible for State policy in the field of land relations. Once again, today is exactly three months before the Ministry of Agrarian Policy is restored. To date, the appropriate actions regarding its formalization have not been completed, although three months is enough. It feels like someone's artificially blocking the reconstruction of the Ministry of Agropolitics. It's a separate question about the Holdgeokadastre. Because the bill proposes that he be given authority at the same time, both administrative and supervisory, and in the control section, they are still duplicating local self-government, with appropriate performances. And there's enough serious chaos in the area.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u96	I'm betting on a vote of 225. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:00]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Germany, 226 law. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, we do not object to the administration of local authorities on earth, including our Ukrainian Sevastopol City Council. But why do we deprive the state of control of the processes of redistribution of state and municipal property? I can't understand it, I can't understand it. I understand you've accepted what you've been in power for a while. But allow your successors to control the processes of land distribution of state and municipal property. Therefore, please leave the relevant standards of the Earth Code in their proper form. We ask one thing: leave the state's right to control and nothing else.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u98	I'll bet you 226 votes, Shufrich. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:31:41]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Shufrich, 227.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, let us now give a little bit of truth about the procedure for dealing with this issue. Out of 3,000 128 amendments, if I'm not mistaken, about 1200, who do you think they are? Now you're smiling, you know what I'm going to talk about. It's the People's Deputies. I'm now insisting on a repulsion from the People's Servants to explain why they're pouring 1200 amendments, where's their principle? When amendments were made to this shameful law, they saw that it was antinational, depriving the State and, in fact, the people of Ukraine, of control over the use of state and municipal property. Where did your principle go? Who's got your fingers or something in the door that all the repairs were "wrong"? And you're accusing us of some sort of regulatory terrorism? Fight for your principles, not yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u100	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u101	Actually, out of 3,000 with something right over 700, if I'm not mistaken, it's counted. Including a lot of "People's Servants" rights, as well as other factions. Obviously, it was a constructive, long job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u102	I'm betting on a vote of 228 Schuffritch. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:33:41]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Edit Not Found 23rd, Marikowski. There's no right of you. Ah, 228th, sorry. 228, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u103	Thank you. Your Honor, I've been told by the press that I'm performing without a mask. I mean, the mask's in my hands and I'm taking it off just for the time of the show, and I'm wearing a mask all the time. But, dear colleagues, we need to know that a national deputy of Ukraine, who was in the session hall yesterday, has unfortunately found a coronavirus. According to the Law on Infectious Diseases, according to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we are obliged to provide self - isolation if we were surrounded by a colleague who became ill with COVID. The test was confirmed today. Unfortunately, it's positive. We want health. For ethical reasons, I don't say the name, but everyone knows who it is. So I'm asking you at 12 o'clock to gather a meeting of factions' heads and determine what to do next. Because we're demonstrating right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u104	Nestor Ivanovich, first of all, it's not about the question that's being considered. Secondly, please look at your faction, which of them is in masks. No, not now, but look at the faction and all the other colleagues. I'm talking to everyone. The board never went to the dropdown. If you want to change the Rules of Work of the Supreme Council and become a committee member, you will be able to do so as soon as we consider the matter that is now under consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, don't scream, please don't shout. You're a legal committee, you're a legal committee, you go to law enforcement about your colleagues. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich Mamka, this is your profile. Thank you. Next question, 232 revisions. Yvchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u105	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues today who want to buy Ukrainian land around the world. Saudi Arabia bought an agrarian holding "Mria" of 270,000 hectares, which is a third of an area like Hmelnicka. Colleagues, Americans are already processing the leased land of 400,000 acres [400,000 ha]. You remember the Chinese wanted to buy 100,000 hectares, they were directly negotiating with KSG Agro in the Dnipropetrovsk region. Turkey claims that the Turkish business is ready to buy Ukrainian land, Europeans. Colleagues, what about Ukrainians? What about the poor Ukrainians? We don't give farmers money to buy land, banks don't give normal interest and credit to small farmers especially because they don't keep accounts. To whom, then, will this land reach, fellow workers? Let's think about it this way, make the law first.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u106	There is 232 amendments to Ichchenka’s people’s vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:37:30.]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 237, Krulka. Please, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u107	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. When the Soviets came to Ukraine, the first thing they did was through the colognes, they took away the entire earth, left people homeless, and organized a famine, a genocide of the Ukrainian people, because people could not sow or gather anything. Now the so - called market economy, and so - called market methods, are trying to take the land away from the same Ukrainian peasants so that they will not be able to process or raise or feed their families again. That's what this law is about. And that's why Fatherland fights against it, and we want everyone to figure it out, stop robbing the Ukrainian people and give the Ukrainians the land back, and let them process and become rich, and not those who come from abroad and take the last from the Ukrainian. How much we can put up with this, and history teaches nothing! We're against it. And I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u108	I'm betting on the vote of 237th Amendment of Krulk Ivan Ivanovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:58]] For-68 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u109	Next line of the 238.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u110	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. We insist that, and my colleague John Krulco rightly said, that this is nothing more than the signs of genocide, famine, when fences were displayed, when they were exhibited, and now there are fences on Ukrainian lands for which no one can come from people who even live. And who built these fences and now took the reserves, the stakes, the land around every city, especially where the most expensive land is? Top clerks and top corrupters. NATION informs us, for which we are grateful that there are top-30 corruption schemes, how they steal the land, not top-30 they steal the land. That is why we demand, and I insist on my right: order, secure the right of Ukrainian citizens to rule the earth forever. The Earth cadastre must be a "holy" book that guarantees the rights of Ukrainian citizens to rule the earth forever. And then there's the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u111	Petty Officer, 238 requisitions. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:40:38]] For-57 No, it's not for 157. I'm sorry, 57, it's not a decision. Pauline, 242 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u112	Dear Mr. Head, this is actually this bill, and the next two are aimed at ensuring that the relevant authority of the State in the field of land relations works as effectively as possible. Unfortunately, today we have a situation where an inefficient, unprofessional government, on the one hand, on the other hand, has not been fully brought to the road by the reform of decentralization and chaos in places both at the level of the united territorial communities and at the level of the newly created areas, the authority and functions to date are not clearly defined or understood, can lead to the loss of land for Ukrainian peasants. And unfortunately, those who initiate the adoption of this law, in my opinion, will deliberately take this action against a Ukrainian citizen, a Ukrainian peasant. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u113	I'll bet you 242 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:15]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Next line 243, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u114	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you two to put it to the vote right away and to the 44th. In fact, once again, I point out that the position that our faction has introduced and today insists on their full consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, aimed at one thing, to protect the right of Ukrainians to rule their land, to prevent foreigners from owning and buying up Ukrainian land at no cost when a Ukrainian citizen is brought to the brink of poverty. And we will continue to do everything within the framework of the law in order to protect the right, the constitutional right of a Ukrainian citizen to manage his land as the most fundamental of his wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u115	I'm putting 243 on the vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:43:44]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 244. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[11:44:07]] For-48 The decision is not taken. 245, Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I think we are all proud that this House has a problem or is trying to tackle the problem of non-personal voting, so-called buttoning. But there is an interesting coalition around the latest events related to the same Harkovsky covenants. Some national MPs are now active there in the previous call, which was then voted on, saying that they didn't actually vote for it, and others pressed the button for it. Thankfully, now, we are voting in person to overcome the problem of buttoning for each bill. Then, if Pandora's box has already been opened by trying to criminalize against the Constitution the responsibility of MPs for the results of the election, then any subsequent authority, including every vote and such a resonant, related to this law, can also view it this way. And to say that I wasn't in the hall and that I wasn't voting, that would be impossible. Therefore, everyone should personally realize that in theory he can be criminally responsible for creating conditions for the sale of Ukrainian lands.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u117	245 axles. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. A hairline. [[11:45:41]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 246 axles. You're an outcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u118	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Now you're looking at us on live, and we're reading, the "Fatherland" faction, you're asking us direct questions, now that's the main thing, you're just going to sound, what kind of corruption schemes are on the ground that we're speaking about, the "Fatherland" and other opposition factions. We call you: selling information about the location of the most valuable lands, please; the second, for the bribe of reselling information and decisions, especially in corrupt authorities about land allocations; and other, other illegal schemes. That is why we demand order on earth first. That's why you're waiting so long for your rights to be guaranteed, and asking you for a referendum to decide who your land will belong to. And your land must belong to you, citizens of the Ukraine. So I insist on my amendment and I demand that this bill be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u119	A vote of 246 is taken on the amendment of the People’s Deputies of the People’s Republic of Lithuania. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:47:15.]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 250, Vlorosyn. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I insist once again that the position not only of our faction, but of some other opposition factions, is that it is essential to guarantee, at least, the issue of non-accessibility of foreigners or, perhaps, if citizens say otherwise, the admission of aliens by referendum. You've already passed the Referendum Act, put it to a referendum. Stop this manipulation of the Earth’s Codex to open access to foreign, bank, and special structures to the earth. Why fool people and pretend that we're not selling anything abroad without asking you if that's what's really going to happen? And it's written in black and white in this bill, and even in the previous one, because there are banks there, for example, that are not forbidden because they are forced to take away the land that was mortgaged. That's the question. You told us then, let's vote and then there'll be a referendum. That's the second time you've voted. Ask that question at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u121	There are 250 amendments to the People's Deputy of Volosin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:48:45]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 251, Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u122	I ask you to pass the word to the co-author of the amendment of Yuri Ivanovich Zagradni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u123	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u124	Thank you. Yuri Zagradny, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". You know, today we've already mentioned the adoption of the Earth Codex in this room in 2001. There is an article 22 in the Earth Code that forbids foreigners to own Ukrainian land in any form. This article 22 appeared because at that time it was understood that foreigners would try to gather Ukrainian land. Today, a bill that we are currently considering with the initiative of power, 2194, is trying to empower foreigners to own Ukrainian land. The right of foreigners with and without citizenship, as well as foreign legal persons to own Ukrainian non-agriculture and agricultural land. If that is true, you are accepting that law into the International Monetary Fund agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u125	251 Coltunović. Ah, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u126	My dear colleague, once again, this law does not change in any way the rules in force, who may be the subject of ownership of agricultural and non-agricultural land, in any way. This law on other matters: the transfer of power to government lands, and not to the sale of agricultural land, but only to other rights, such as rents.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u127	251 amendments shall be put to the vote. National Deputy Koltunović, Zagradni. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:51:04]] For-48 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u128	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna. 252 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u129	Fatherland, Julia Timoshenko. I want to say that this bill envisions the destruction of the remnants of Ukrainian farming. You all remember, or maybe you know, that from 92 to 97 years of age, you had 50 hectares of land available free of charge for farming, free of charge. Many farms are present today. In all, we have about 20,000 working farms on this very land, including. Poland has an estimated 1.5 million farms. This law allows these miserable 50 acres [50 ha] to be taken from these farmers or paid for the money they do not have. Questions to the committee head. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u130	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u131	Dear colleague, this is not the subject of any kind of language in the law at all. First moment. One second. This rule has not worked for many years. Why was it canceled? This is the distribution of land for permanent use under the agricultural (farm) farm. Because most of the farm (farm) farms created were medium - and large - size enterprises that formed land without competition and auction. And most of these lands are still being processed by large, medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u132	This land, 2178-10, has the right to ransom it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u133	252 law, Timoshenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:53:26]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Petty Officer, 253 requisitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u134	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. I insist on this amendment. And once again, I'm paying attention to all the citizens of Ukraine. A public cadastre map of Ukraine. Right now, you go to this site and you'll see that you're immediately being told about some geometry errors in taking away the land. We all know the name of this geometry, it's the name of the top-corruptioners in every area that for decades through criminal corruption schemes have been producing, stealing, destroying Ukrainian lands. And if you don't put order in the cadastre, now talk about what a majority representative tells us to adopt this bill and sell the land, or talk about passing these geometry and such mistakes to local communities, it's to lie to people, it's to abuse people. We demand that we stop this bill and hold a referendum first, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u135	I'll bet on the 253th Amendment. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:54:56]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. 258, Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u136	Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u137	I'll bet you 258 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:55:25]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 260th, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u138	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear committee head Mikolo Tarasovich, please answer the questions that are being asked. The question was as follows. Farmers have been given land for permanent use since 91-97. And these lands of constant use have actually been used on a continuous basis. Now you have your concept, Law 2178-10, you've offered to take these lands into them if they don't buy them off the schedule. Here's the concept, please explain why Fatherland is proposing these lands with every bill that we've passed in the past, and in this, to give, there's only 300,000 hectares, to give these lands to farmers, and you've offered them to pay for these lands. That's the concept! You will be drawn for what was once given to them in constant use! That's the difference between our positions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u139	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u140	Dear colleague, Law 2178-10, which you mentioned today, which is not discussed, which has been accepted and entered into force, is given the right, not the duty, only the right to buy this land at the farmers' wishes. Let me make a deal. The right of farmers to buy this land for 10 years is free of interest. And it is by agreeing with these farmers that such a standard is proposed. First moment. The other one. Constant use is not property, and we have to pay for it. Third. In no way, unless someone realizes this right, the constant use does not go away in any of the rules of Law 2178-10, nor in 2194. And remember the decision of the Constitutional Court, if I'm not mistaken, since the 99th year, where it's said. All of this is taken into account. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u141	I'll bet you 260 Yvchenka's vote. The committee is unaccounted for. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:57]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Vlasenko, 262.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u142	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, by your logic, breathing is also a human right, not a duty. So let's take the money for people breathing through the air. That's the first one. Now the second one. In fact, there are many speculations today that this law is passed on to communities outside cities and villages. This is the seeding position of the Fatherland, which we will unquestionably support. But it's a drop of honey in a spoon with this law. Let's take this question apart. And I am convinced that the Law on the Transfer of Land to Communities outside the Territories will be supported by a constitutional majority in this Supreme Council, and there will be no amendments to this part. But once again, the law isn't just about that and it's not just about that. The law on the complete destruction of state control over environmental and land legislation, the law that our farmers will not be able to compete with.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u143	I'm betting on a vote of 262 people's deputies, Vlasenka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:59:33]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u144	Bogdan. Don't insist. Torchty. Don't insist. I'm going. Don't insist. Voloshin. Don't insist. Coltunovich. He insists. 270 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the co-author of the Garden is about to arrive, he was just insisting on this amendment. But I would like to point out that if we are today realizing the right of citizens to land, I would like to point out that part of the first article of the 121 Earth Code gives citizens of Ukraine the right to transfer land from state utility property free of charge. But there are a number of points that relate to the average size of peacocks -- 4 hectares, 2 hectares for members of agricultural enterprises -- to run a private farm. If 0.12 hectares is for gardening, for construction it's 0.25, no more. 15, in cities, not more than 10 acres [0.10 ha], for individual construction, etc. So today, in our view, it is extremely important to realize the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to land and to implement this very first part of article 121 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, which I have just mentioned, and separate positions. Thank you. But the law as a whole, we'll talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u146	I'm betting on the vote number 270 Koltunović. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:34:45]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Kabachenko, 272nd. Don't insist. Vlasenko. Don't insist. He insists. 275th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u147	Mr. Head, I insist on everything I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u148	All right, you heard me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u149	My fellow Members, I reiterate that many speculations about this law are taking place in the part that this law is passed on to the land outside the local communities. The Fatherland party is unquestionably supportive, and there's no intrigue here. But instead, and this is the right thesis, and this law has been shoved into another law that is incompatible with the Constitution or with the rights of Ukrainian citizens or with the functioning of the Ukrainian state. So let's put into a separate law the transfer of land to communities outside the population, get a constitutional majority for this law, and then we'll discuss everything else. Including the destruction of State control over land and environmental legislation. Therefore, it is not possible to destroy State control in this realm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u150	Thank you. I'll bet you 275 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:36:31]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. A carpenter. Don't insist. Germany. Don't insist. He's a scoundrel. Don't insist. Voloshin. Lukashev insists? You are not Lukashev, but you spoke on the phone, Nestor Ivanovich. Let us then listen to the counsel, fellow believers. 288, Schofrich, 278, Schofrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u151	Mr. Chairman, I want our citizens to understand the principle of the position on this bill. Society has been misled into believing that there is no Earth Code at all. I want to make it clear to those who want to confuse this issue that the Earth Codex has been in existence since 2001 and has been adopted under very difficult conditions. What are we fighting about in this part? We're fighting for one thing, so that the central authority of the state will carry out – attention! - control over the implementation of Ukrainian land policy by all authorized authorities, including local self-government. Controlling the use of land is what? Why do you want to spread everything around the region and, excuse me, cut it up among foreigners? Ununderstandable position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u152	278. Right. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:39]] For-39 The decision is not taken. 279, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u153	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Once again, I want to point out that all of our rights, and our factions, by the way, many of our colleagues from other factions are aimed at one thing: securing and leaving the state to control the use of Ukrainian lands for all, and first and foremost, and including local self-government. I have a letter to our chairman. He said not all my colleagues were from the faction in masks. In fact, unfortunately, many of my colleagues at the Opposition Platform for Life have moved the coronavirus, and it's not very easy for everyone to breathe even in masks. But we check the presence of antibodies in those of our colleagues who have become ill, and we take this very seriously. So I insist that the faction leaders discuss the situation that has now taken place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine when our colleagues who were in the Council yesterday are sick, are now quarantined and treated.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u154	I'll bet you 279 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:14]] For-41 The decision is not taken. It's the 280th, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u155	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In fact, the laws proposed by our faction are aimed at protecting the right of Ukrainian citizens to own their land. In particular, the aim of this amendment is to preserve the powers of government oversight and control in the agro-industrial complex in the field of land relations. In my view, it is criminal in terms of imperfection, incomplete work by both central and local authorities, the chaos of administrative reform in Ukraine. Sadly, this could lead to numerous conflicts and could lead to the fact that the Ukrainians would not be able to manage their land. Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u156	I'll bet you 280 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:45]] For-40 The decision is not taken. 281 you don't insist? He insists. Should we put it to a vote? 281, Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u157	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, you know that things are changing so quickly in our country that those who at some point in history feel like absolute kings of the situation can soon find themselves in a very different position. And in this regard, since everyone else was more saddened by the practice that we started with Mr. Stefanchuk yesterday, I will tell the story. So in the 1920s, Schlamovich is admitted to the VCPB. He's coming home. My wife says, "Well, what did you get?" He says no. What happened? He says, well, at first it was okay, I said, there I told about Marxism-Leninism theory, the history of VCPB. And then one of the board members asks me, and sometimes you're not the same Israel, Mosesz Schlamovich, who in July 19th in Guliapol at Nestor Ivanovich's wedding, did they play the violin? What did you say? I said it was me. Why didn't you say it wasn't you? They were all there. So this is actually about the Kharkiv Agreements and everything. Since all are closely related, never forget this. And honor your colleagues in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u158	I'll bet you 281 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:24]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Amendment 282. Voloshin. You want me to vote? Please identify and vote. [[12:43:50]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, 283.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u159	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Another law aimed at maintaining State control over the possibility of managing the land to all authorized individuals, both private individuals and public and local authorities. I would like to remind you that just a year ago, we were in the Lokdown, including the Supreme Council was limited in its work in the case of the patients 150 and the victims, unfortunately, to 5 per day. Today, we have about 12,000 without a small disease, and 289 people died yesterday, unfortunately, from COVID. Ukrainians are looking at us as we give them an example when we say that we had a positive test in the hall yesterday, we've confirmed today, we've had a high temperature, we've all been talking to it, and we're still working. What example do we set for our citizens today? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u160	I'll bet you 283 Shufrich's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:45:25]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Krulko, 284 correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u161	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Here is a very interesting information in the hall that 700 amendments to this law were supported by a committee. So what is the quality of the bill, which 700 amendments should be included? That's my question to the committee. And the second. Dear colleagues, let's really look at my 284 amendment. It is proposed that the bill remove all powers from the State Department in the field of land relations. Question is, what's the holdgeokadaster going to do? What is the norm that takes away from an authority that is called upon to deal with land issues and to take away all authority? So I think we need to support my amendment and delete the relevant paragraph 9 of article 15-2, which provides for the removal of all powers from the Deriveocadastro. And let's film this law as completely anti-national and unnecessary for Ukrainian farming and for the Ukrainian agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u162	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u163	He's an honorable colleague, and he's not, anyway. It doesn't count -- it's bad, it's bad, it's bad. This is the first moment. The second is about the Holdgeokadaster. There's a basic function in the Dergeocadastrre -- that's how the cadastra is run and there's still a separate control function. The earth’s management functions, as has been said repeatedly, are transmitted. This is logical and correct. This is the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u164	I'll bet you 284 Krulk's vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:47:25]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Kovalov. Don't insist. Is he insisting? Kovalov, 285 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u165	286th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u166	285th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u167	Thank you. Nevertheless, I want to go back to the dominant right to rent agricultural land. In article 130, they were expelled, your moments that were set in it. But the same amendment appeared in another article — 130 primes. What does it say? About what is the dominant right that is created for large agroholdings, although I would like to point out that the Earth Code has 148 primes. 1 that the change in ownership is not the reason for the change in the actual lease. And what will we have if we do have a dominant right? We're going to have a full monopoly of big agribusiness. And people won't be able to sell their land properly. Because we're also going to create a throat that makes 74 percent of private property miss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u168	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u169	Dear colleague, you have rightly pointed out that a change of owner is not a reason to change or break contracts. It's left behind, it's the right thing to do. As far as delivery is concerned. It's a right that's predominant. To nullify the dominant right, as you suggest, by acting, including in accordance with the land leases made under the Land Code, the Land Rental Act, is to absolutely provoke the entire country into raiding, primarily related to land relations. Predominant law is maintained by both landowners and all participants in land relations from small to large and is in no way limited. Because a person who rents more at a higher level is entitled to the right. In no other way can it dictate the price, and it has a time limit of one and a half months from the time of the offer. They didn't respond, please, at least for the auction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u170	I'll bet you 285 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:50:00]] For-67
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u171	The decision is not taken. Next 286th, Thorochtius. Don't insist. Next 287, Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u172	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would just like to give you a specific example of how society is being misled and how Ukrainian farming is being destroyed. We've just had a discussion about how farmers were allocated 50 hectares of land in the 1990s to support farming and to be able to use this land for free, in order to maintain the agricultural movement and the agricultural system of the agrarian complex in general, now all of these laws will be deprived of such a guaranteed right to have this land. Now we were told that if they wanted to, they could buy it. Well, it's a wordplay. Because they actually had to be handed over to them. And what they're given as a voluntary ransom is an alternative to losing this land for farming. Please put my vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u173	The vote is voted on by 287 amendments to National Deputy Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:37]] For-60 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 288, Labunski. Don't insist. 289, Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u174	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I don’t think it’s clear in this room that the United Nations has defined the development of family farming as a top priority for the next 10 years. What these bills are now being passed, they are being adopted entirely for the benefit of large agricultural holdings, such as those working in Ukraine, and they are also applying for our land. In other words, if this whole package of agricultural land sales laws is adopted, agriculture in Ukraine will no longer be able to develop as a major component of agricultural sector development. Because priority will be given to large sums of money that will buy this land at auctions, and will be given to large oligarchic agrarian structures, both inside Ukraine and outside Ukraine. This policy directly contradicts the normal development of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u175	I'm betting on a vote of 289 Timoshenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:53:21]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Bogdan. Don't insist. Pavlovsky. Don't insist. Shufrich. He insists. Please, 301 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u176	Thank you. The honourable chairman is certainly difficult to reach out to when he does not want to hear you, but we will try. I would like to emphasize once again that this is not about the elimination of the Earth Code, about its leveling, about the preservation of it, just as it was about the battle that broke up the Supreme Council in 2001 that we voted very consciously and responsibly. And what you're doing right now, you're actually reviving it. In fact, you're allowing the land of Ukraine to be drained without any control. And, Dmitri Alexanderovich, I address you personally. You know our sincere treatment of you, but my colleague Gregory Mamka addressed you, and you answered him publicly, under the transcript, calling him his last name. Give him a chance to reply, that's his regular, legal, constitutional right. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u177	Nestor Ivanovich, I have addressed you, and to the reverend Grigori Mikolaiovich Mamka, as part of your faction is without masks, it is also punishable by law. Yes, it's also punishable by law, and I'm sure he'll raise the matter at the committee meeting and contact the relevant authorities. Yes, I'll give you 30 seconds if you don't mind commenting. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Hopefully that's what you'll do after the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u178	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, you can talk about masks and those who don't wear masks, but until the Rules are changed to run a law enforcement officer here or a person with authority to write a protocol and then the MPs can pay, there will be no other story, there will be no talk. Ladies and gentlemen, I have appealed to the Head of the Supreme Council, and I have not been heard, unfortunately, of the enforcement of legislation, namely the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u179	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Are we putting an amendment to the vote? I'll bet you 301 votes on the election of national deputy Shufric. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:22]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. Bondarenko doesn't insist. Puppy. It's stuck. Germany. Shufrich. Germany, 305 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I'd like to tell those of my colleagues who were here accusing someone of being bullied. Dear colleagues, stop this political crackdown. You see, there are more than half a thousand rights to this bill. It's not a bill -- it's a "pornography" for land reform. Just so you understand. And the second question. Dear colleagues, I remind you once again that land by referendum in the people is the main natural source of existence. And just so you know, all the power to take a fraction of it, even a meter away, is a question of damage to the subject of sovereignty. That is why I would like to know now, not when criminal cases are committed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u181	I'm betting on 305 German votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:08]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 306 law. Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u182	To article 20, what I want to say is that today this bill envisages forgetting state control over land relations. It's a nonsensus in general, when a state is taken away from being a land relations regulator. And I realize that it is behind this that the territorial communities themselves will determine who to give the land to and which foreigner. In Cherkaščina, it's Dutch, it's Americans in Ternopils, and there's Turks out there. That's what this is all about. That is why I would like to see that when we have adopted such bills, we have come out of the Constitution’s requirement that citizens’ rights should not be violated when everything is based on laws and regulations, not on secular law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u183	I'm betting on the vote of 306th National Deputy of Germany. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:43]] For-52 The decision is not taken. 307 straight, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u184	Dear Mr. Golovo, my fellow Members, I take the floor to point out that a large part of the bill's rules do not contain completed legal mechanisms, do not comply with a whole range of valid laws and contradict the entire series of articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. This, in particular, is well documented by both the legal administration and the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Actually, it's a technical one. Its aim is to bring the standards of part three of article 20 of the Ukraine Code of Land into force. I ask her to support her so that, in the event of God’s approval of this law, there are no legislative commissions in the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u185	I'll bet you 307 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:01:17]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Coltunovich, 309 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u186	Thank you. Mr. Head, look, when we're talking about the expansion of agroholdings and the expansion of the monopoly in the country in general, and why we don't exactly support this bill and all those legislative initiatives that offer individual MPs to our parliament (our committee, I mean) and from this point of view why there is no trust in the hall. For example, in favor of agroholdings, the value added tax was reduced to 14 percent. I don't mind lowering taxes, but when it's a target group, it's already raising doubts. Or, for example, that it's just that I'm upset and that the whole society, for example, is making changes to the Tax Code when they want to introduce a tax on pies, to increase it more precisely, for the average owners of the land. These are the priorities of today’s authorities and those who propose such initiatives. So the expansion of agroholdings in Ukraine should not be completed, and from this point of view, we are against this bill. Thank you. And I'm asking you to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u187	I'm betting on a vote of 309, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Please identify and vote. [[13:02:54]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. [[B in m in s a l in]] A break of 15 minutes is announced. Dear colleagues, we need to air the hall. There's a break for 15 minutes, till 13:20. In order for technical workers to bring the remote control into order and to blow up the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u188	Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Let's get back to work. Vlasenko, 312 law. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u189	Thank you, Mr. Head. What this law offers us, except that this law tells us that, in fact, farmers will not be in equal conditions and will not be able to become equal owners of agricultural land, and the purpose of any kind of land, including agriculture, can be changed without any restrictions. Yes, "Paternity" supports the fact that rural, rural and urban councils should have the right to decide to change the target destination of the relevant land, but this should be within the framework of a state programme and with some state control, because the village council cannot make decisions on its own and transfer agricultural land to commercial buildings. This should be regulated, regulated, including by certain control mechanisms on the part of the State, although I emphasize that the right to transfer should be in the village council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u190	Thank you. I'm betting on a 312 vote, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:22:30.]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Volosin, 313. Put it to the vote? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, I think we've been watching in recent years that some strange, absolutely unworthy term has been introduced into circulation in the Ukrainian language, which does not deserve to be in the literary language -- the word "burn". Now we see that we have already begun in the Supreme Council to "burn" from the fact that opposition factions block the sale of Ukrainian lands to foreigners. And it's very sad, actually, because if we were all consolidated and working together to develop really some kind of legislation that would interest Ukrainian farmers, I don't think anything would burn up here, and everything would be okay, and there wouldn't be these thousand rights. Now, please put my vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u192	I'll bet on the 313 vote on Hair. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:45]] For-42 The decision is not taken. It's 314.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u193	Partially counted. Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u194	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Ladies and gentlemen, what happens if we don't accept this amendment? This would mean that the legal person who today obtained ownership of the land of an agricultural assignment will be able to change its purpose tomorrow? Or do we? Is it worth using the Ukrainian land for its functional purpose? My readjustment is very simple and it's the next one. We've been introducing a safety net for 10 years from the time we get ownership of the land of agricultural destination to the actual possibility of changing its target assignment, which means that, first, we're supporting the farmer, because only a farmer will invest in his land in order to, 10 years after working on it and not earning it, he'll be able to think about it after that, or should we change it, or should we leave it?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u195	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 310 Cabachenka. It's part of the committee. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[13:25:49]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 314th, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u196	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, look, now we're looking at a set of laws that allows for the sale of Ukrainian agricultural land. Clearly, this affects the interests of every Ukrainian. And we all remember the President's promise that before such fundamental, strategic decisions as the sale of agricultural land, for example, a nationwide referendum will be held. And as people will say, so will parliament and power. So now I have a question for the committee head. And please tell me, was there even a discussion with the President about first having a referendum on the people's initiative, asking people like him, and the Servant of the People party promised in all elections, and only then to deprive Ukrainians of their right to rule, to rule their agricultural land? Answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u197	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u198	This law in no way deprives any citizen of any property right, including land. This law is completely different. He's not talking about no sale. It is not possible to sell state land, municipal land, and agricultural assignments under this law. I'll do it again. As adopted in Law 2178-10, it defines only which body can handle the functions of transferring to an emphysics lease and other rights provided for by Civil Codes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u199	There is a vote of 314 amendments by National MP Timoshenko. The committee proposes to reject. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:57]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 315. National Deputy Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, really of all the points that we could just right now correct in this bill, I'm really surprised why the committee doesn't insist so much on full deregulation on issues, lower levels, on the level of village councils on changing the target destination of agricultural land. But why was philosophy the first thing that we were doing was running the agricultural land market so that they would remain agricultural, not transformed into land that could be used under construction, especially in big cities and so forth. I would be grateful if, indeed, Mr. Solski, I see, he was willing to comment, explained why we put on the level of rural heads, which are very often corrupt people, the right to change the target assignment, and not leave this control at the highest levels of government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u201	I'm betting on the vote number 315, Hair. Committee position, very brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u202	Dear colleague, when we had two parts: the first is the ban on selling, the second is the ban on changing our destination, we canceled the moratorium. Last year, Law 2280, which was adopted on two readings and signed by the President, had the number 711, established a procedure for changing the purpose. There is a community decision in the form of a plan, and then only such a change is possible, including agricultural land. So with respect to environmental and historical cultural legislation. Individual powers, for example, are actually handed over to local communities by re-establishment governments, and this is correct, and logical, taking into account the principles of decentralization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u203	Thank you. I'll bet you 315 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:30:21]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 316 law, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u204	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. The chairman of the committee learned to avoid direct questions in art. So once again, it's not about selling state and municipal land, it's about, in principle, selling agricultural land. You've been head of the committee for several years, basically lobbying this story, you're practically stretching the sale of agricultural land through this hall. I asked you straight. And the People's Servant Party and President Zelensky promised the people on similar issues to hold a referendum. Why are you not holding a referendum, and why are you actually selling the property that is enshrined in the Constitution as property of the entire Ukrainian people and of all future generations today without the will of the people? You and the President were talking about holding a referendum, and why aren't you holding a referendum on this? Just give me a clear answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u205	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u206	I'm giving a direct answer to a direct question. This law does not provide for the sale of agricultural land of state and municipal property. Therefore, it is not possible to discuss what is not available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u207	I'm betting on the 316th edition of Tymoshenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:14]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Batenko, 317 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u208	Dear Mikola Tarasovich, come on, the continuation of the change of purpose is purely rational, objectively speaking, from the perspective of the people, yes. So we're for the rights of the community, we're for deregulation, we're for the sake of not having a self-absorbing, just like other organs, like archbud control and so forth. But the complete loss of control over the change from the state to the change in the target destination of the agricultural land will cause chaos with a change of purpose? Our proposal to postpone this. So the community controls, the community's decision in the form of a plan and so on. It's all right. But when is it, like an avalanche, going to change what they're going to do on these lands -- build a cottage? Well, it's clearly not a kindergarten or a school, you know? Will the earth be properly conquered? We suggest we postpone for 10 years. Perhaps it is wrong to explain simply the purpose of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u209	Thank you. I'll bet you 317. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u210	Dear colleague, why this will not be uncontrollable, why this is, in principle, impossible in a mass way. I'll explain. It's not in this law, but it's in the laws that we've already passed. First. The crowd approves a spatial plan where it foresees the possibility of altering the target assignment at individual locations, at the request of the owner, including the agricultural land. If these two wishes coincide, then the owner of the agricultural land can change that if there is a community permit, I would stress again. But it costs a lot of money. Agricultural land, for example, when an average of 30 to 40,000 hectares, has the smallest estimate in Ukraine. Change industry or construction land, where an estimate of the same hectare by another category of several million dollars and pay officially, we accepted it with you last year, 30 percent in the local budget, no one will do it without merit, and no further investment steps will be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u211	There is a vote of 317 amendments to the Batenka People's Deputy. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:56]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 318. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u212	Thank you, Mr. Head. With all possible economic lectures by the committee head, this has nothing to do with reality. It is the village, village, city council that will decide to change the destination of the land. And by the way, you're still actually killing control over the change in the target destination of especially valuable land. So in fact, that's the problem, you're taking the state completely away from the influence, from the formation of state policies for the development of agriculture. You're giving the agricultural land the opportunity to make land of industry, of land under construction. You're giving the land a gardening opportunity to make the land under oblivion, without any restrictions. That's a huge problem. Once again, yes, the community should have one of the decisive words on this issue, but there must be State control from the point of view of public policy. You're ruining it. Decentralization is not anarchy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u213	Vote 318 is amended by Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:36:29]] For-57
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u214	The decision is not taken. 319, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u215	Thank you. This right block is exactly what it refers to when it comes to changing the target. Unfortunately, what we are now being offered here was mentioned by Nestor Ivanovich Nena, so we are being offered a complete hoax in the matter of change of purpose. A total fraud that will take place without any state policy, without any understanding of what it takes for a state to do in order for agriculture to eventually emerge in Ukraine in its entirety and to be able to provide, as it was before, not just Ukrainian citizens with agricultural products, but to export it. Unfortunately, you're doing things differently. You make the conditions under which communities will be forced, because you have deprived the communities of normal funding, the communities will have to look for quick money, fast, not strategic, not understanding what the state needs for the future. That's why we have to give communities the right to decide, but there has to be State control.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u216	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u217	A respected colleague and other colleagues, when we talk about a change in purpose, often raises issues of particular value. We do have the notion of "specially valuable land" in land legislation, especially in the Earth Code. It covers two types of land. First. This is the land of the Natural Command Fund and other similar status. In this regard, we have legislation to authorize the Supreme Council to change its purpose, to approve refusals to use them permanently, and this is all preserved. There's another species. This is related to high - quality indicators and to a very valuable category. For example, the whole Winnitzka. 60 percent of the Poltava and Vinnitsk region, because of the quality of the soil, are particularly valuable land, including grandma's gardens. And the Supreme Council has never changed nor will it change the purpose of these lands. There was no example. This includes a violation of the Constitution. It's always been a change of pace, it's always been a corrupt thing for a hundred percent of the time, and before that, there was a reference to the new quality of the soil, in all one hundred percent of the cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u218	Thank you. Ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote number 319 of the owner. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:26]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Tetjana Mikhaylovna's crying. You don't? Volosin, 322.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u219	Indeed, the principle of discussion is very important right now. Mr. Solsky was right about the fact. But if we have a problem with the right to apply it does not mean that we need bad application, practice, legalization now. Well, it's the same thing as, you know, if we have an illegal drug ring, let's just legalize it. That is, instead of punishing those who have really changed targets through corruption schemes, we now want to allow the target to be changed as the so-called community would like. We don't know what's going on in cities in Kiev, for example, with so-called public hearings, and where are all our squares and playgrounds that seem to have agreed to build on 20-30 floors of the house? Europe looks like it does, because there's a lot out of place. The state has. Business always does what it's allowed, you can't let business do what it wants because business works for one thing, to maximize profits, and that's normal. But the state has to limit that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u220	Thank you. I'll bet you 322 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:01]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, 323.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u221	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, I address you personally as Head. Twenty years ago, the Earth Codex was adopted in this room. It has been worked on for several years by outstanding people, and I have called it the name of a scientist with a world name: Novakovsky, Trekjak, many other experts and specialists. When it was approved, Europe was surprised that it was the best Earth code in the world, and the European Union recognized that it was the best. Today, Dmitri Alexanderovich, it remains a ruin. Dmitri Alexanderovich, remember one thing. A few laws to develop land reform -- we can't even change anyone. Because how they can protect their property from transnational corporations and the countries they represent, we know that. Dmitri Alexanderovich, save yourselves with a referendum, ask the people, let the people back it up, what Solski says.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u222	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u223	Dear colleague, I was not a witness, but a direct participant, of course. But I remember adopting the Earth Codex, which has really given great impetus to the development of land relations to this day. He accepted, including by voting with signatures in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u224	I'll bet you 323 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:43:02]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Lukashev. Don't insist. Pauline? Pavlenko, 325 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u225	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! It raises serious concern that the exclusion of a rule from the Land Code, according to which land of agricultural destination is transferred to ownership and made available for use only for designated persons associated with agricultural activity, may lead to the granting of land to different entities and for any purpose. This, in our view, actually cancels the targeted use of agricultural land. This may also lead to the uncontrolled use of agricultural land, in fact, to the non-admissibility of this and there are a large part of the rights given by the Opposition Platform for Life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u226	I'm betting on the vote number 325. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:37]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 326. Voloshin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, I would like to support what Taras Batenko has just said. The point was that, once again, start the market for the earth, even though we are against the launch of the land market without a referendum. Let's say we did this, but we can at least change the target assignment, just make a three-year moratorium there, for 5 years, see how the land market works, and then see what we can do about the lands that the owners want to change their target. Let's first get a man to buy a garden, and then there's a garden, and there's a man to buy a field where he grows a sunflower, and he's growing wheat there, but he doesn't exactly build a cottage, and he doesn't make a dump. It's an elemental thing. First, see how it will work, and then let it work. This is the way they work in all European countries -- progressiveness. Liberalization should be gradual, or it would really, as Vlasenko said right, turn into a hoax.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u228	I'm betting on a vote of 326 revisions of Hair. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:46:09]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 328 law, Kirilenko. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u229	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, we keep telling you, but the reactions are zero. We are talking about the fact that this law has nothing to do with the European circulation of agricultural land. We're talking about the large number of hotels and schemes in this law that are actually going to trigger certain social conflicts in the territories. We're talking about that there's no national interest in this law. Here, in this law, there are no small farmers, there are no medium-sized farms, singles, which are now more than 4 million. We say that there is no Ukrainian village in this law. It is impossible to sit down and write a European experience that would accurately protect the Ukrainian farmer and Ukrainian agriculture. That's what Fatherland says.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u230	I'll bet you 328 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:44]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Labunsky, 329th. Krasov. There's no insistence on the beauty. Bondarev. Don't insist. You're an outcast. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you insisting? 334.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u231	National Deputy Bondarev, Fatherland faction. Today, the cost of living in our country is increasing every day. Look at the tariffs that have doubled in comparison with last year. And at this time, to carry out a land reform that is part of this law that is being considered today is anti-national. I think we have to do everything we can to enable our farmer to develop, to have the opportunity to buy land. And then you go to people, you have a referendum, and you ask them if they want to sell the land. What is happening today is forcing people to sell the land at no cost. Ukrainians are transformed into fortifications.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u232	I'll bet you 334 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:31]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 340th, Nadvajchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u233	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Dear citizens of Ukraine, yes, we are seeking the most important thing for you so that the land that is in your possession will provide you with an opportunity to work. And I insist on my amendment, because it refers to strategically important issues in land relations, those countries that will ensure your safety and the safety of your families, the security of the country. And it's not true when you hear from the authorities right now that there's no better experience than what's proposed by this bill. Yes. And such successful countries as Finland have done just that. It's a very simple path, and it's driven by the Fatherland faction and our leader, Julia Timoshenko. Farming -- support, loans and leasing -- yes, for our farmers, land ownership and processing -- yes, our farmers. And that's the future of our country. Please take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u234	Thank you. 340 Advertisment. Please identify and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't scream, please. [[13:51.]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u235	Edited. 339, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u236	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I have analyzed all the revisions to this article -- a change of purpose. Two key standards that go: the first is either a referendum requirement, and the second is not to throw this article away. What the committee did. They threw this article out and they're still working in separate ways to legitimize the Chernewsky scheme when the "young team" of Kiev ripped the whole of Kiev apart. Now the "young team" in the Supreme Council is doing the same thing. My job is one thing. Return the codex article, which is clearly defined: What is the decision of the Supreme Council, the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, and what decisions are approved in especially valuable lands? Everything else is the fornication that you enter the country into. If you change such an article, it will begin to completely dissipate especially valuable lands. I demand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u237	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 339 Soboljeva. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:48]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 337, Coltunovich. Edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u238	Dear Mr. Head, thank you for being able to take the amendment fully into account. I'd like to pay attention to two important things and reinforce them with numbers, what colleagues just talked about. If we have a total farmland area of 42.7 million hectares or 70 percent of the country’s total area of land, it is 32.5 million hectares or 78 percent. Another important moment. The area of agricultural land per person is the largest in Europe, accounting for 0.9 percent of hectares, including 0.7 million hectares. This is the average in Europe of 0.44, 0.25. We have 0.9, I think, 0.7. If we're talking about the area of the Blacklands, we have 15 to 17 million hectares, that's about 8 percent of the world's reserves. That is why it is so important to keep the issues of the earth in state and municipal ownership and, most importantly, to allow it to be subverted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u239	I'll bet you 337 votes. The committee is an editorial committee. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[13:54:26]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 341. You're an outcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u240	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. For us, as for all Ukrainian citizens, it is very important to hear a direct answer to the direct question: why do you avoid holding a referendum on land sales? It was a direct promise of your very political power, your very promise. So we want, like all Ukrainian citizens, to hear the answer to why you're avoiding a referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u241	I'll bet you 341 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u242	That's a rhetorical question. Thank you. I'll bet you 341 votes. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. The committee can't give this answer, unfortunately, dear colleagues. [[13:55:38]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Edit 342, Right-Handed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u243	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. This is not a rhetorical question for us, as it is for all 40 million citizens of Ukraine. Therefore, national deputies, committee heads, are obliged to answer direct questions. So we insist on the answers: When is the referendum? Because for us, as for all citizens of Ukraine, a referendum is an event when citizens decide matters. From me for such a people. Not for fairy tales, not for repairs. Well, 342 times and it's 342 amendments we're introducing, 342 times you can already sign the Referendum Act and do it exactly once. Well, don't waste your time and your future. Have a referendum, and now answer, please: Why is the country's country referendum not held?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u244	I'll bet you 342 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:05]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Princey. Don't insist. Yvchenko, 345 requisitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u245	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, you know, the intensive use of agriculture, which is now solely for profit, is completely destroying fertility today, including Ukrainian lands. Dispersion of Ukrainian lands, colleagues, 65 percent. No one is watching the way mineral and chemical fertilizers are introduced, the means of growth and so on, and so on, that's for sure. products of animal origin, that's for sure. animal waste, it definitely affects the environment, it definitely affects our health with you. Why can't this law, including state control of these things, be strengthened? Why can we not maintain the fertility of our earth? On the other hand, colleagues, we use the land, and more and more we export the shaft of grain. And we offer the Ukrainians a land reform that is not in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u246	I'll bet you 345 Ichchenka's vote. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:58:38]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 346, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u247	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, why do you call decentralization the transfer of land orders to the territorial communities? And why don't you call decentralization what you don't give communities: (a) give them the opportunity to set land tax because it's their own money. You don't allow this law to the communities to review leases that are concluded for 15 years at a minimum interest rate. You're not letting the communities of these state lands fill their budgets. Why don't you call it that? And this is also a decentralization when they are given land orders and when they can influence the use of this land to fill their own budgets, namely schools and kindergartens. You don't let the local authorities do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-17-m0.u248	I'm betting on a vote of 346 Ichchenka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:00:03]] For-47 The decision is not taken. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
