ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare to register, take your seats. As always, I remind you, registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left, (good morning!) using the sensor button. Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:03:44]] There are 151 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. First of all, today is the birthday of our colleague Stepan Ivanovich Kubov. Hello. I want success, achievement, strength, and health first. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, yesterday during a meeting with the heads of the MP factions and groups, a consensus was reached on today’s plenary day. We work all the way from 12 to 12:30. We're actually working from 10 to 12:30. Then, from 12:30 to the first, he reads the questions of Helen Constantine’s Condratuk. Then there will be an extraordinary meeting to change the calendar plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Does Everyone Remember? We can't vote it out, so I hope there's no objection to colleagues, as yesterday's factions were agreed upon, everyone's going along. Thank you. Dear colleagues, today, according to article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations at 10 a.m., we have an hour of questions to the government. Today there are respected colleagues from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Now, as always, we have 20 minutes for an interview; 21 minutes for a question from the MPs and groups; then 20 minutes for a question from the Ukrainian national MPs. Is there no objection? None. Dear colleagues, the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Maxim Volodymyrovich Stepanov, is invited to the podium. Maxim Volodymyrovich, please. And while Maxim Volodymyrovich is approaching the rostrum, I remind everyone today, President Nauseda's speech will be on the walls of Parliament. The request that the national deputies be present at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u2	Good day to the distinguished Ukrainian people! Good afternoon, everyone! In the last two weeks, I've been speaking in this room for the second time. On the one hand, this may speak of the high interest of national MPs in the topic of vaccination and the strategy of the Ministry of Health to combat the coronavirus and, on the other hand, the considerable politicization of the whole issue of the pandemic. I'm not going to go into detail and take a tour of the history of the resources of the Ministry of Health and the entire country into the global pandemic, with which, rather, without what: no masks, no beds, no oxygen, no H.I.S., no basic medical protection, and with the meager salaries of doctors who were thrown into battle against COVID-19. The condition and quality of the medical system will remain on the conscience of those who have ruled the system before. The only request to these people is that you stop torturing the Ministry of Health and Ukrainians with your advice on how to inject better, where to take vaccines and how to organize the process, "the reserve lava" is defined for recreation. You've had plenty of time to show the quality of "field games" and the results, and the result is obvious to everyone. But let's go back to fighting the coronavirus. During this year, our medical system has taken a tremendous leap into development, not even a step. We've launched 6,000 artificial lung ventilators, increased laboratory capacity by 400 times, organized more than 60,000 oxygen beds, adopted a series of inefficient management decisions that allowed us to strike a balance between the economy and the epidemic. Adaptive quarantine strategy really worked. Our management decisions, based on epidemiological indicators and other markers, allowed us to keep the situation under control. The only complete and complete spring bowdown was needed to launch the medical system. For the rest of the year, anti - epidemic measures were milder than world and European. Did you know that, for example, the French authorities have chosen to arm our decision as a quarantine on the weekend? I don't think so. Perhaps we had a ban on leaving the house for no good reason? Neither did I. Such prohibitions still exist in several countries of the European Union. Recall how many times the Ministry of Health initiated the introduction of the curfew? I'll say zero times. Along with our doctors, scientists, and epidemiologists, we have put in place a system that allows us to keep the lowest mortality rates in Europe per million people, 36th place. So in front of us are 35 countries, whose mortality exceeds ours by two, three times ours. It's not just numbers, it's thousands and tens of thousands of lives saved by Ukrainians, our citizens with you, who have returned from the hospital beds of intensive and oxygen therapy, not into the raw land, but home to loved ones, relatives, friends. Who has achieved this result? Maybe the vaccines from politics that initially criticized quarantine, then the absence of vaccines, then their quality, quantity, manufacturer, label, and, ultimately, the rate of vaccination? No, critics were in the way. This work was done by our doctors, medical professionals, health workers, for whom Hippocratic oaths are sacred and respect for the Ukrainian people is superior to self - preservation instincts. They're the real heroes of the second front of the country, the cadaver. And according to the front fighting conditions, they have to be fully manned and protected. In the context of the Coronavirus pandemic, the best protection for our doctors is vaccination. This is understood by the whole world, apart from some of our politicians and their handicrafts, who, in pursuit of temporary political dividends, try to create a curved mirror of parallel reality, where everything is wrong, vaccines are wrong, and the Ministry of Health is failing. Do politicians called Covishield by AstraZeneca generale, understand that this concept can be used exclusively for low molecular active chemicals that vaccines are not in principle? Do they apologize for their statements of rejection of the vaccine by Europe after the European Medical Agency and the World Health Organization have stated that there is no link between thrombosis and vaccination and recommend continued vaccination? No, they're not. Do they take their comments about Covishield as a vaccine for poor countries after the same vaccine at the same plant as for Ukraine is ordered by Britain and Canada? No, they're not. Why? The answer is obvious: Apologizing means taking responsibility for refusing vaccination, which brings complications, resuscitation and death to hundreds of people. I want to address the wise Ukrainian people. Separate the seeds from the poles, check the information, and trust only official sources and channels of communication. We and our international partners have sufficient information resources that contain only reliable and accurate information about the course of vaccination, the quality of vaccines, their safety and effectiveness. Since March 1, 2021, the vaccination information resource covid19.gov.ua has been launched, with all the information on vaccination in Ukraine, ranging from the development of basic myths and fairy tales of vaccination to the possibility of writing a waiting letter. Despite the informational and open-minded lies on the subject of vaccination, more than 290,000 people have been enrolled in the letter of expectation through information resources, including through the "Dia" plugin. This is the best response of our people to the politicians who, in 24/7, put the Ministry of Health on wheels in hopeless ways to deceive Ukrainians and break the vaccination program. This is a blow to Ukraine and the Ukrainians, more damaging than all hostile propaganda combined. My position remains unchanged: Ukrainians should receive exclusively safe, certified international organizations, effective and quality vaccines from world-renowned manufacturers. The road map provides for five main stages. Less than a month, and as we know, the first vaccination in Ukraine was made on February 24, and we moved on to the second stage of vaccination. From the following week, the work of the hospital’s vaccination facilities and the vaccination of family doctors begins. Today, 92,000 713 people have been vaccinated in Ukraine. Politicians talk a lot about the mistrust of doctors or military personnel in the vaccine, but that's not really true. They are vaccinated and set examples for their colleagues and all Ukrainians. Behind my back on the screen, Sergey Zmurko, Special Correspondent of the ArmyInform, the head of the mobile newsgroup of the North Tactical Task Force, was vaccinated. Alexander Voronyków, a pulmonary doctor at the Ivano-Frankivska Centre for Lung Diseases, a Phtysiatric and Pulmonology professor, was vaccinated. Darius Simchuk, an anesthesiologist at Žitomir Hospital No. 2 of Pavlusenka, was vaccinated. And they all publicly called on their colleagues to do so. Because of this lie that's spreading about vaccination of doctors on social media, doctors have launched a whole campaign for hashtag called "I'm a doctor, I'm a vaccine." To look at the pages of our medical staff following this link is not enough for life. Thousands of them, which means that doctors refuse vaccination only in sick imagination and political antivaccinators. The public vaccination initiative was also initiated by religious leaders. The Supreme Archbishop of Kyewo-Ghalicki, Head of the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church of Svetoslav and Archimandrite of the Mikhail Monastery of Zoloverse Lavrenti, representative of the Federation of Jewish Communitys of the capital of Ukraine Leonid Barac, representative of the Jewish community of the Habad Lubawicz movement in Ukraine Boris Strugatsky. And they all claimed that vaccination was necessary and did it publicly. I completely and completely share Father Lawrence’s view that the Church accepts vaccination as one way to overcome or at least limit the spread of this terrible disease and that vaccination can become part of God’s plan. Think of those words. Soon we will receive an additional batch of vaccine – 1.5 million doses of AstraZeneca, Covidshield is expected to be sent to Ukraine from the Indian Serum Institute. We're just waiting for permission from the government of India. Registered and awaiting delivery to Ukraine of CoronaVac vaccine from the producer Sinovac Biotech. With a probability of almost 100 percent, we can predict a powerful campaign of our antivaxes against this drug as well. Meanwhile, Sinovac Biotech is China’s largest vaccine company and recognized world authority in immunobiological production. The company produces up to 500 million doses of high - quality vaccines annually and places them under contracts in many countries around the world. On March 18, I had a half-hour meeting with UNICEF in Ukraine and was assured that by the end of March -- early April in the framework of the international COVAX initiative -- we will have a 570,000-dose batch from AstraZeneca, and by the end of May another 1.1 - 1.2 million doses of vaccines from this company. In addition, Pfizer's vaccine. Under previous arrangements, we are also looking forward to delivering to a country that has already been contracted, I emphasize, a contracted vaccine from the American company Novavax in the amount of 10 million doses and Indian development from Bharat Biotech. Both vaccines at all stages of clinical trials showed very high results. The proven effectiveness of Novavax is 89.3 percent, and the Kovahin vaccine of Bharat Biotech reached 81 percent. Thus, our strategy, which aims to provide vaccines to all those who wish during this calendar year, is already being implemented, and the goal is to achieve collective immunity, and it starts with a figure of 60 percent of the vaccinees. And it's completely accessible. However, not everything depends solely on the Ministry of Health. Local authorities should also be fully involved in the fight against COVID-19. It is gratifying to see that the measures of many cities have already taken our stand and taken preventive restrictive measures. The examples of Kiev, Vincenzo, and Lviv should be followed by others. Coronavirus does not take into account ambitions, political ratings, and graphs in sociological surveys. He's taking lives. On the other hand, the coronavirus is our common disaster, and the extent to which society is consolidating around its solution depends on how quickly the country returns to normal life. At first, I was talking about a bench of spares. I want to finish with a quote from the great Ukrainian and strategist Valery Vasilovich Lobanowski: "The game is forgotten and the result remains in history." Give our scientists, doctors and the Ministry of Health calmly to carry out your program, the rescue of the Ukrainian nation, and show the result. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the Minister of Health. The word is given to the national deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u4	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. I give the word to Oleg Kulinich. Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u5	Who, again? Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u6	Good afternoon! Andrew Ivanchuk, Attitude, MP's "Trust." Mr. Secretary, I would like to ask you such a question and a request. We identified ourselves with the first category of people who fall under the first minute of vaccination. But the government has so far not developed a list of critical infrastructures, technology-related enterprises, and technological hazards that work around the clock, as well as businesses that provide the country with medical oxygen, protection, and all the other services needed to combat the pandemic. Therefore, I ask that my statement be regarded as a question of parliament, and that the Prime Minister be immediately entrusted with the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Health, to identify with a list of critical enterprises, critical infrastructures, a continuous cycle of work. Because if we don't have oxygen, if we don't have electricity, we're not going to have anything to fight with the pandemic. Thank you very much, and I expect a very quick response from you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u7	Thank you for asking. In fact, in our vaccination plan, this is exactly what you're talking about, what you didn't foresee, but I think your suggestions are right. And I'm sure that my colleagues will be identified as enterprises that are too important to the functioning of our state, important for the security of our state. And we'll make the right decision on the changes to the vaccination plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u8	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Burmitch Anatoly Petrovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u9	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich, opposition faction. Say, Mr. Secretary, you mentioned that you went into a pandemic without masks. Have you come to terms with whose fault and whether it has been punished? That's the first question. And the second question. Today we've got one Covishield vaccine, and I'm not going to appreciate its quality and how it got carried away, and I have a question in another. When's the second, third, vaccine to make people have a choice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u10	Thank you for asking. The Ministry of Health has no function to deal with any wrongdoing or other matters related to the violation of legislation. This is the competence of other organs. Within its competence, the Ministry of Health provided masks, beds, oxygen — all that was needed to save the Ukrainian. Your second question about vaccines. In my speech, including this issue, I raised the issue that vaccines that we already have contracts about and that we import. It's AstraZeneca, Covishield, it's a vaccine for the production of Sinovac, it's a vaccine for the production of Novax, and it's vaccines that we're going to receive, including in the COVAX initiative, a vaccine for the production of Pfizer. We're also in the process of winning, at the final stage of signing contracts with other manufacturers. Thank you. We have answers about the next shipments, given everything in yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u11	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Železnik Jaroslav Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u12	Mr. Minister, I give the floor to your beloved National MP, Olga Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u13	Hand it over to your favorite national MP, Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u14	Mr. Stepanov, we've got Ukrainian cities closing in on the hillside today. Lviv, Poltava, Kiev. At the same time, other countries that have been inoculating their population since December are opening up, children are going to school, and businesses are starting to work. Because the governments of those countries and the ministries of health have taken care of their people. And you've turned Ukraine into a cadaver ghetto. We lost 262 people yesterday. We're in the last place in Europe after a million people are vaccinated today. Your stunt you talked about last time doesn't work. Instead, you've been here for 20 minutes saying that everyone around you is guilty: politicians, people, forerunners. You're a year in a position that you've done so that we don't lose our economy and our people today?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u15	It's about mortality. As I have said many times, Ukraine is 36 places in Europe at the same rate of mortality. That's the main result. These are the saved tens, hundreds of thousands of lives that have been made thanks to our doctors and our decisions, to which you, Mrs. People's MP, have had nothing to do with it. Oh, no, they did. You've been jamming us all this time with your manipulations, the fairies that you've been distributing all the time, including the vaccinations.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u16	You're done, aren't you? The word is given to the National MP Batenek Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u17	Good afternoon! Please give the floor to our colleague Irina Miroslavni Konstanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u18	Irina Miroslavna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u19	Dear Society, today is a special day, today's birthday at Lina Vasilovna Kostenko. And I hope that the Parliamentary Hall will welcome our outstanding world-wide writer with today's birthdays. And, Mr. Minister, you were talking about a physical rescue. It is Lena Costenko who provides us with spiritual and physical salvation. Now for the question. FAP's fate. How long will the intelligent adaptation in the FAPAH be delayed? And the second. Do you know about the critical situation of eHealth that it hangs this system doesn't register? And what are your actions as ministries to fix this system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. As far as FAPs are concerned. My position is that the power of Ukraine is that it is different. And we even sometimes have different situations within one area about the number of people who live in villages, for example. For example, my very favorite Odessa area, where there are 3, 4, 5,000 villages in the south, and 500 to 700 people in the north. But no matter where a person lives, medical care should be provided. And it is clear that in villages where sometimes the distance from the village to the district center is large enough, this medical aid should be provided, including through the FAP. Just yesterday, I held a meeting with my deputies and with NHRIs about introducing any additional incentives to ensure that the FAPs would definitely remain. But we also need to use other mechanisms to provide this medical care, including telemedicine, which needs to be put in place as much as possible in order to ensure that the F.A.P.I. Feldscher is connected with a doctor who is in the district center or in the infirmary. So the question of the FAPs, I'm sure no one is going to shut them down, we're not going to let that happen. About the eHealth system. In fact, there are corresponding faults about the current heavy load. But technically, I think that over the next few literally days that question will be solved, and it will work in a peaceful way. This has to do with the contract of April 1, which begins to take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u21	The word is given to the national deputy Zimmerluku Mikhailovich, faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u22	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to the deputy head of the faction Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u23	Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u24	Sobolje, Fatherland. Minister, I have two very specific questions and one wish. Please tell us, at these levels of illness in Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Hungary, when we finally give up the fiction of self-insulation through the "Dia" and we will demand everyone who buys a ticket and wants to enter Ukraine, those who cross the border, others, the information about COVID's absence, as all other countries do. A second wish. Please tell me when a bill is introduced to make it possible to supply Pfizer, other vaccines to create the State Guarantee Fund as a result of any consequence of vaccination. Without that, you know, there will be no such supplies. And the third. A very specific wish. Please tell us how you can affect those disgruntled chief doctors who refuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u25	Thank you for asking. For information on the negative result of the PLR test. The Ministry of Health has already made changes to the government’s decision to do so. I am confident that at the next government meeting this issue will be considered, and all citizens of other countries entering Ukraine regardless of the level of disease in their countries will have to provide evidence that in 48 hours, no more than 48 hours, they will have to test the PLR and have a negative test. As far as the law is concerned. Bill 5247 has been passed. I hope that today in the next session, as far as I know, you will consider that you will support it, we need it very much. Without the adoption of this law, Ukrainians will not be able to obtain certain vaccines from certain manufacturers. Yeah, we have this thing that manufacturers require certain conditions for the supply of vaccines. And when they're asked to, they're tough enough, because now they don't have any problems selling these vaccines, as far as we know, in the world's total vaccine deficit. And about your third question. That's a question I'm in control of. I think the mechanism of action is very simple. If not met by one or more disgruntled chief physicians or by the director of the Commission, the conditions that are laid down, including the decision, should be handled accordingly by criminal cases and handled by law enforcement authorities. We're going to react hard enough, and the wages of the medical staff can't be cancelled or suspended.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u26	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Ion's Maria Mikolayovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u27	Traditionally, a hammocked speech by the minister. And there is no interest in Parliament, there is concern for Ukrainian citizens in Parliament. Because your conduct determines people’s mistrust with you, and so you can make every number available here, and explain every action you take. I'm already reminding you that your authority was selling masks in January and February 2020, when the world was already plagued by a pandemic. The next question. Why the firm, why the Serum Institute is registered to a construction company that exists on a bushyard and belongs to the Kumar brothers, known for its affairs, regionals. Just don't say it's the manufacturer's condition, because you and the Chinese have, unfortunately, refuted your words. And my second question is, ohmatdit. It was the predecessors who built the OHMATDIT by 90 percent and the equipment on the first and second lines. And now you can fail the construction and financing of OHMATDIT. When will the strategy "OHMATDIT" be approved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u28	First question. I'll explain to you how the doctor's registration is taking place. I've already explained this to you, but I understand that it was probably not clear. The manufacturer of the medical device submits the relevant documents to the state expert centre, which consists of the application, the file, the registration form. In what way can she file this file? It's our legislation, it's so arranged and it's fully harmonized with European legislation, either on its own or through its representative. The way it's going to be filed, it's decided solely by the manufacturer company, and neither the Ministry of Health nor the national MPs, nor any other official in our country has any bearing on it and can't influence it. That's the first one. You had a second line on the production of Sinovac. You're, unfortunately, lying about the argument again, not the argument that it wasn't Sinavac's wish, all the documents that I think you've been given, at least there were requests from the people's deputies, we've been giving it all over again. About OHMATDIT. Last year there was an appropriate second turn, this year there's going to be a third turn, it's on our hands, and OHMATDIT is actually going to be a European hospital, and you can't worry about that either. We will repeatedly prove that we are able to do so and are able to save our citizens, including our small citizens, our Ukrainians, our children. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u29	The word is given to the National Deputy of Drabovska Anatoly Grigorovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u30	Please give the floor to the Raducci MP, the committee of profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u31	Mikhail Raducci, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u32	Dear Maxim Volodymyrovich, I have two questions for you. Question one. At the end of last year, a decision was made to ensure the deployment of four mobile hospitals in various regions of Ukraine. I'd like to know if these hospitals are made, and why now that we have cities like Kiev suffocating from shortages of places, it's not open yet, if it's done? And the second question. This year, the Academy of Medical Sciences has allocated 5 billion dollars from Ukraine’s budget, nearly 5 billion dollars. Why haven't you passed it on to the city of Kiev, where there are virtually no more places to place patients with COVID, no more beds from the Academy of Medical Sciences in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. It's about mobile hospitals. There was a mobile hospital of DSNS, there were funds allocated, it was equipped, and now it's open in the Ivano-Frankow region. By the way, as far as the region of Ivano-Frankiv is concerned, there is almost a week of complete stability, and we are confident that soon we will be able to transport it to another location, including Kiev, if we need it. As for the second question, the Academy of Medical Sciences. Last week, an appropriate decision was made, an effective and literate decision, regarding the provision of medical care. As you know, when we reclassify a medical facility, other diseases do not make vacations; they should also be helped. And the decision was made that Kyiv’s medical facilities are being reclassified to a cadaveral hospital, and the medical sciences institutes, in turn, provide emergency medical care, plan medical care, and that health care facilities are being carried out today. This is the right decision. The total number of beds that the Academy of Medical Sciences, which we agreed on, was about 4,000 beds, all over the institutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u34	Thank you. The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Deputies? No, that's it. The MPs are done. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand further questions will come to the government, and you wanted questions to the minister. Please, Olena Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u35	Of course. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear Mr. Minister, you know, to blame in general on the walls of the Supreme Council of Politicians in all their troubles, the failures of vaccination, especially the communication strategy, I think it's kind of ridiculous, frankly. [[Applause]] Thank you, colleagues. Because, frankly, everyone understands that vaccination is not a political issue, vaccination is actually a life-saver, it's respect for the health system, respect for the medical community, and, most importantly, it's basically an opportunity for our economy to work. You know, I have the only request that I have right now, because it's ridiculous to ask something new and new, we understand all your answers to these questions. You have, in principle, now two minutes to make this kind of inspirational speech and call everyone to the vaccine. You can start, in principle, with the members of the Supreme Council and how they should wear masks to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. You know, I'm just an honest enough person, and when we really see the politicization of the vaccination process, it's politics, because when politicians start talking about it, including on the talk show, on the live air, and adding the political aspect there, it's just a process of politicization. I fully agree with you that vaccination is primarily about medicine, it's about saving, because vaccination is equal to life. And the more people in our country are being vaccinated, the more that percentage is going to be, the more Ukrainians we're going to keep. Because no doctor can give an answer to a person’s illness. It doesn't depend on his age, his political views or where he lives, COVID doesn't care. Even at times a young person, an athlete who lives a healthy life - style at the age of 30, simply cannot be rescued by our doctors, and he dies. The only way to protect his life is the vaccine. When a person is vaccinated, I'm not saying it's equal to life, he's definitely not going to get resuscitation, he's definitely not going to have a severe disease and he's definitely going to live. So vaccination is equal to life. And if we want to politicize this process, let's politicize it with one phrase: vaccination is equal to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u37	Thank you. Maxim Volodymyrovich, take your place. Dear colleagues, right now we have a period of questions for the entire government, so I'm asking the national deputies to sign up for questions. And I'm also going to ask the people's deputies to the hall, because we're going to have the President of Lithuania in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign in. The word is given to the People's Deputy, the Honourable Sergey Anatoliyovich, the Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u38	I give the word to Sergey Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u39	Chess. The card says you need to insert a card. Your Honor, please turn on the microphone for the People's Deputy Shahov. It's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u40	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Mr. Minister, at that 272 plenary meeting, the MPs have approached the President of Ukraine and you with their right to be revealed, because in Lugansk they are still testing at a cost-free and three times more expensive. We did not get an answer for this. Well, we also addressed you with a letter, look at Lugansk, at the district hospital in Rubizny. Thank you. Sergey Shahov Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u41	Thank you, Mr. People's Deputy. To date, the government has decided to ensure free testing at all checkpoints of entry and exit. Now there's a logistic process going on, and in the near future, including the Lugansk Station's KPPV, there's going to be such a test. So your question is in control, and I'll be ready to let you know in person, and I think it's your parliamentary address. As far as the district hospital is concerned. Today's papers signed by the head of the ODA of the Luhansk Region by Sergey Hayday have already been referred to me for consideration by the Ministry of Finance. We are also preparing financial proposals to involve perhaps foreign donors in the construction of this district hospital. Also a question at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u42	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u43	Thank you. Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. I have a question for Health Minister Maxime Stepanova. Mr. Minister, we're being approached by a huge number of doctors, medical administrators, to deal with the problem of providing non-invasive lung support masks. The thing is, these masks are disposable, and they're just not on the market right now. So doctors are forced to use them again, which is not very good. In fact, it's very bad that these masks are being used again. Have you analyzed this situation? Do you have such statistics regarding the provision of these masks to hospitals in the areas? Because I raised this question on the Conciliation Council, we asked you from a group with a request and a request. Have they analyzed this situation? If so, how will you correct it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. Indeed, there was an appropriate appeal, and yesterday, including when we met with the members of your faction, we discussed the matter. We've done the right thing to update the problems in all hospitals without excluding them (over 500), which are involved in the fight against COVID-19, which is a necessity. Directly the costs of providing these masks are included in the tariff for treatment of patients with COVID-19. But, in fact, some may be interrupted directly with access to these masks. We're getting the most out of the way right now, and I think we're going to get to the bottom of this. Well, of course we'll give you an answer. Thank you for asking. Thank you for your concern.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u45	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u47	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u48	To the minister of health. I am very sorry that we have traditionally heard the speech of the politics of Stepanov, not the minister of health. Because it's your authority that's rolled into asphalt that's wobbly instead of investing in the hospital. It was your authority that did not respond to Pfizer's request to join the trials. It was your authority that covered Bukovel, which resulted in a critical situation in Frankish. Now for the question. Why hasn't there been a mass screening of Ukrainian antibodies on COVID-19? Because that base would optimize the vaccination process. The second question. Why does the government in no way react by adjusting the vaccination plan to the educational process itself? Because teachers and teachers need to be vaccinated. And the third question. Why are there not yet paid a cadaver's allowances to doctors, such as Zakarpatti, Montenegro and John-Frankish? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u49	First of all, what you had about Pfizer was that they were going to do a test here. It's kind of another manipulation. I just don't understand why you're doing this. What is involved in education. We have a clear National Vaccination Plan. Which makes it clear in the National Plan that we're starting to vaccinate in the third stage of the vaccination campaign. And we're not going away from this plan. We're already in phase two and we're going to go to stage three, depending on the delivery of vaccines. As far as testing is concerned, an antigen screening. I'll explain. It's just a medical question. This is not even theoretically necessary. Why is there no need? Because the presence of antibodies is no reason to avoid vaccination. Moreover, it is recognized not only by our doctors and our medical staff, whom I understand you do not always trust, but also recognized by the world’s experts. Therefore, no one will be tested for antibodies to decide whether to vaccinate or not. There is no need for that, I would stress.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u50	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u51	Please hand over Natalia Pippa.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u52	Natalia Pippa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u53	Good afternoon. My question to Education Minister Sergei Scarlett. Please explain why the DPA was cancelled. This is addressed to me in a mass way by parents and children who were preparing for the 4th and 9th classes of the DPA. Why is it that if we fear for the health of children and have no other monitoring of knowledge and that at least an online test is offered? He won't show you the exact results of your children's knowledge, but he will be able to show you any of the cuts and results of your work. Because 72 percent of citizens believe that distance education is a failure. If you have no idea how to do this, we are willing to help you. And please suggest an alternative to the DPA and conduct it. We're ready to give you a hint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u54	Thank you so much for asking. The DPA in the 4th and 9th classes has really been canceled because to level the conditions of those children who have been taught remotely in "red" areas that have not been able to learn in full-time. As for any help offered personally to Mrs. Natalia, we never refused because we work on a committee. The alternative to DPA for today is, in principle, the current results of monitoring and assessing the quality of any system, including distance learning. The State Education Quality Service monitors every quarter. And there's no confirmed figures that you said 72 percent about the failed system of remote education. In fact, there are people who don't accept distance education, but in general, and the Ministry of Education, and the training committee, never put on one scale the results of distance and eye forms of learning. To this end, a number of tools have been implemented to align knowledge, like the All-U.S. Online School, which allows today to provide full-time learning not only in school but also in remote form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u55	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Kacny Alexander Stalinolenovich, please the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u56	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I have a question for the Minister of Health. Please tell us, in your report today, how is it planned to campaign for a vaccine for a vaccine? And that's understandable. We have a question. Today, in the next session, it is planned to adopt a law that completely removes the responsibility for the consequences of vaccination, if any, from the manufacturer, from the licensee, from those who inoculate. Please tell me, does this add confidence to the vaccination of our Ukrainian people today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u57	Thank you for asking. A very important question. I'd like to make a point. We take on this responsibility. We assume this responsibility, that is, not the manufacturer’s response, but Ukraine’s. It seems to me that Ukrainians still trust the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian society. It's a very important question, because without the adoption of this bill, we're not going to be able to access certain kinds of vaccines. Now it's about responsibility, what it's all about. It's primarily about compensation for the damage done, let's say, if it happens in the vaccination process. But let us understand which. For example, let me give you two numbers. More than 92,000 vaccines in Ukraine today and only 455 minor side reactions. 455 times 92,000 vaccines is 0.5 percent. Same percentage as any routine vaccination. As for the bill, I ask you very much for your support, distinguished national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u58	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Pavelska Rostislav Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u59	Thank you. Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u60	Mikola Knieżicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u61	Thank you. In any case, without questioning the quality of vaccines, it is still a strange situation when Serum has previously registered vaccines in Ukraine, and now this is done by a firm that does not exist at the legal address of some Kumaram, prescribed, sorry, in Kiev in the desert, known only for being involved in the affairs with the Metropolitan, initiated by the famous Mr. Stolar here, and other criminal investigations. I mean, if something happens, who's responsible, it's not clear. And I have a question for Minister Tuck. Mr. Minister, I ask you very much to put into the list of national theatres according to the relevant decree, as I said at the previous meeting of colleague Francis, Johno-Frankov Music and Dramatic Theatre in the list of other national institutions. All national institutions in Ukraine to ensure that their employees are able to receive legitimate wages either from the local budget or from the national budget, as in the case of theatres. Because other municipal theatres there are included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u62	I would like to remind you that if the theaters are on the balance of local communities, the pay regardless of status comes from local communities. If we have confirmation from Ivano-Frankovsky's ODA that they're willing to pay, and according to Ivano-Frankovsky's criteria, we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u63	Thank you. The word is given to Fedienek Alexander Pavlovich, a faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Sosi Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u65	Please, Roman Vasilovich Soha. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u66	Good afternoon! Soha Roman, 75th District, Zaporozhye. I have a question for the IMF representative. And this is about the work of the service centers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. To date, they are working in a special mode, that is, in the previous entry. There, this work has created a very large queue, and these queues are dead by fact, and they don't move. So when you go to the service center, you're asked to solve the problem of out-of-service service for 3 or 4 thousand dollars. This is unacceptable. And that's a simple word for bribes. So I'm going to demand that I put the system in place of these centers and stop this massive bribery. When I talked to my colleagues, I realized that this problem is not just in Zaporozhye, it exists all over the country. And this situation, it's going to discredit me, first of all, as a district official, because I have.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u67	Deputy Minister Geraszczenko Anton Juriovich will provide an answer from the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question. Indeed, there was a shameful case of bribery. We are now conducting a service investigation on this point. The material will be transferred to the law enforcement authorities in order to resolve the matter in substance. And if everything is documented and confirmed, there will be suspicions. As far as the entire work of the service centers is concerned, we're going to run a background check and give you information. I'll contact you on Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u69	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Majdic Oleg Leonidovich, faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u70	Please pass the word to Evtushka Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u71	Sergei Mikolaiovich Eutuszk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u72	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. I have a question for Health Minister Maxime Stepanova. Maxim Volodymyrovich, health problems are evident today in view of challenges not only in Ukraine but also in the world. You've described these problems very clearly. But at the same time, I would like to draw your attention to other aspects of health care, namely, palliative medicine. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u73	[[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. Indeed, today we have the honour to welcome the President of the Republic of Lithuania to the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, Mr. Nauseda. In many years, we have developed a genuine, friendly, effective relationship. And this cooperation and this co-operation that we're seeing on the part of our colleagues, and hopefully they're also feeling it on the part of Ukraine, it's going to be hard to overestimate. And I would like to invite Mr. President to speak today at the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u74	Dear deputies, dear brothers and sisters in Ukraine! [[Applause]] I came to your country with a message of friendship and cooperation. I address you in an ancient and dignified language that has long been persecuted and destroyed. However, it was not destroyed. [[Applause]] Hopefully the words I'm going to say today will help us pave the way for a common future. We can always rely on our shared past. 30 years ago, when Lithuania defended its freedom during the bloody January events, Ukrainian volunteers rushed to help side by side with the heroes of our freedom. And we Lithuanians were there every time the people of Ukraine stood up for their dignity. Centuries earlier, we were close to one another and even had a common state. We traded, had a cultural exchange, resisted the common enemy. Together, our peoples have protected precious values for European civilizations of value: respect for the rule of law, human freedom, and democracy. The Lithuanian-Ukrainian community has been shown in common heroes. It was by no chance here in Kiev that the winner of the battle under Orshey Constantine Ostrozhki, and in Ostroz the hero of Hotina Jan Karol Hodkevich, who won the battle. [[Applause]] And even though it has been seven years since the military aggression that destroyed the international order and harmony in Europe, we Lithuanians continue to say that Crimea is Ukraine. [[Applause]] We strongly condemn the illegal for Russia, we stand for independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, and we welcome Kiev's initiative to create an international Crimea platform. Dear people of Ukraine, Lithuania sees Ukraine’s efforts in the direction of a political solution to the conflict at Donbasa. We clearly urge Russia and its strengthened groups to comply with the requirements of the Minsk Treaties without delay. Sanctions against Russia must take effect until it leaves the illegally occupied territories of Ukraine. There is no doubt that Ukraine is a strong place in a strong Europe. We look forward to Ukraine's civilisational choice to move towards European and Euro-Atlantic integration, as approved in the Constitution of the State. Lithuania has always supported you on your way to the European Union and NATO. We know better than anyone that's going to put you through a lot of trials and be ready to share your experience. My country would not become a member of the European Union and NATO if it did not intend to achieve common political goals. We've also experienced that any country that seeks change needs a dialogue with civil society. When you want to be a member of the European Union, remember that the success of reforms is essential, first of all, to ensure the well-being of the population and the stability of the state itself. I hope that the conference on reform in Ukraine, which will take place in July in Vilnius, will directly hear that officials and civil society and Ukrainian entrepreneurs, international partners and experts are thinking about your country's future. My country’s entrepreneurs are also looking forward to joining in creating prosperity in Ukraine. Lithuania is eager to develop links with Ukraine in the field of telecommunications, information technology, and innovation. I believe that a closer interaction between our countries, a digital economy could open up useful opportunities for the development of Ukrainian industry, businesses and citizens. I am sure that this year's Lithuanian-Ukrainian Economic Forum will be another opportunity to strengthen existing and create new connections. Although we are now suffering from temporary complications caused by the Coronavirus pandemic, I believe that we will overcome the crisis by mass vaccination. So I personally want the leaders of the European Union to agree on a solidarity mechanism for the distribution of vaccines with the countries of the Eastern Partnership. Ladies and gentlemen, let me add a few words of common concern to the dangerous Belarusian nuclear power plant. Not only did Russia’s plant builder put the region’s inhabitants at risk but it also tries to use the plant’s design to expand its influence. Belarus’s growing fragility poses a direct threat not only to Lithuania’s interests but also to Ukraine. So today, I want to publicly ask the authorities of Ukraine and its people to support the position of the Baltic States regarding the Belarusian nuclear power plant and not to buy electricity produced in the island. Thank you. With great hopes, we are also looking at a project to synchronize the Baltic countries with continental European electricity networks, and from Lithuania's point of view, every state in our region, which is trying to reduce Russia's influence, needs to strengthen energy independence. Frankly, timely investments allowed Lithuania to reduce the direct threat posed by new Russian energy projects such as the Nord Steam - 2 pipeline. So let us be happy to hear that Ukraine too intends to navigate through the synchronization of electricity networks with continental Europe. My dears, a century of common history has taught Lithuanians to respect the loving Ukrainian people and to value your independent character. Today, we are delighted to observe the restoration and rebirth of your country, worthy and aware of its value as a European state. Lithuania can help you along the path of reform, and it will do so in the future. The Ukrainian people are worthy of the changes they hope for. The former choir manager of my youth, Albertos Roje, who had chosen Ukraine as his second home 35 years ago, also deserved this. This is what all Ukrainians deserve, whatever their origins are and wherever they live. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u75	Thank you, Mr. President, for today's speech, and for the position we see and observe, your personal and Lithuanian Republic. I'm sure you've seen the relationship between our states and our parliaments today, and the presidents will always be friendly. And that's the kind of cooperation we're going to be able to win together. Thank you. It's so nice to see you today. And I'm sure I speak not only of myself, but of all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, we had one back then. Four minutes left. Yeah? Please allow the national deputy Eutuska to finish so that we can finish this part of our plenary session. Please. Sergei Mikolaiovich, if you please, again as you have spoken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u77	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. I have a question for Health Minister Maxime Stepanova. Maxim Volodymyrovich, actually, I want to ask you about other health-related directions. It's palliative medicine. After all, the National Health Service has tripled funding for this medicine. People are pushed out of the sky with very complex diseases. Please give a strategy, as you can see, that such facilities continue to exist. And the second question. In the last 10 days, more than 30 cancer patients have come to my reception center. Do you have the opportunity to respond now to how much you can increase the funding of the National Cancer Institute, cancer dispensers and so forth? Because I think that this coronary virus, this virus, is carrying not only the disease that we're suffering from there and the Ukrainian virus, but it's also a parallel oncosis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u78	Thank you for asking. First of all, it's about palliative aid. A very important direction that has not been developed in our country at all. This is really about humanism and about helping people who need it. What did we do? Starting on April 1, the tariff for the provision of palliative aid was substantially increased, substantially, I emphasize, increased. Why are we still doing this? For the number of institutions, i.e. we have two components: the first is tariffs, the second is the number of branches of political aid that exist in the country at all, because there are very, very few. And that's why, because of the increase in tariffs, including, we encourage the creation of such branches to provide political aid. This is a direct duty of the state to ensure that this palatial aid is provided. It's about oncology. We have, in addition to increasing the funding of oncology, well, let me give you that figure. For example, radiation therapy. We've even distinguished this year from April 1st, the usual radiation therapy method, which is 36,000 dollars, and the linear accelerator, which is going to be 54,000 dollars of the treatment of one patient in order to maximize this thing. Moreover, there has also been an increase in funding at the very rate of oncology, chemotherapy, diagnostic methods. So it's all done in all directions. What's more, we've developed a National Strategy, along with your fellow national MPs, a treatment for oncologicals, which I think will be approved shortly. He's coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u79	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Leros Geo Bagratovich, who is non-fractional. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u80	First of all, the statement by the President of the Republic of Lithuania seemed to me that he was more patriotic than the entire office of the President of Ukraine. Secondly, I have a question for Mr. Stepanov. You have appealed to the representative of the EU faction and the Voice faction that they distribute fairy tales. First of all, you're characterizing a walking fairy. Second, you will be personally responsible for the pandemic crisis. And I have a question for you within your purview. With hundreds of Ukrainians killed by the coronavirus, you bought a jacket two weeks ago for 620,000 bracelets. So I have a question for you: how is it warm or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u81	I understand you have a temper, but it's your own. And I don't think I should answer that. As for other things related to fairies. I think that the wise Ukrainian people understand exactly where the fairies, which you're distributing, and where the truth is. The only thing I'm saying to you is, from the number of your fairies and myths that you're distributing about including vaccination, about fighting COVID, just think about it, it depends on the lives of specific people. Just specific people who don't get vaccinated on time because of the absurdity you're spreading. Just don't do it, just think about the Ukrainians who will die because of your actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u82	Thank you, Your Honor. We've finished "the hour of questions to the government." Let us thank the government for their participation in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to further consideration of the matter. I'd like to invite the chairman of the committee to the rostrum. And we're going to start right now. And I also want to remind you of how we made a deal with you. Then we have, at 12:30, we go to questions. Half an hour of enquiries. And then there are two plenary sessions. One in a day and one in a day and one in a day, Pfizer, the other in three other questions that now seem to have been raised. Thank you. One second, I'll take it. 877 amendment, Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u83	Good afternoon, dear fellows! And as they say, let's move on. Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, back to the technical documentation of law-making. So I want to tell you that this bill doesn't even have the terms "right-of-use documents." There's no such thing as an understanding. All this technical documentation is based on local government decisions. And the thing is, in the form of decentralization, we've forgotten about government functions. Read articles 13, 14 of the Constitution, where the State governs ownership of the earth on behalf of the people. And that's why we have to get those powers back. Because we're going to go into a mess where we can't figure anything out. Support our correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u84	Thank you. I bet on the vote of 877 the amendment of the German People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:22:49]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 878, Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u85	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. You know, our principle of maintaining state control over the possibility of using agrarian land. And we heard Savik Schuster six months ago as the head of the State Geocadastral Service, Mr. Roman Lechchenko, claimed that 5 million hectares had been stolen by all the predecessors. He promised his surnames, promised terms that all of this would be subject to investigation and return to government property. After being appointed minister on this hapi, the subject disappeared. And the question is, why did they pick up this hippie? Perhaps to become a minister and end up in the water he will hide. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u86	I bet on the vote of 878 the amendment of the People's Deputy Shufrich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:20]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 879, Vlorosyn. Don't insist. 882nd National Deputy Lukashev. Don't insist. 886th, Volosin. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u87	Guys, come on, we're through. Well, we can't go back in five minutes to that amendment that was announced. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next. 888, Volosin, Slavicka. Don't insist. 893rd. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I want to remind you once again that the position of the Fatherland faction is next. First of all, we need to ask if Ukrainian citizens want to open up the land market, and then we need to hold an appropriate referendum. The other one. If Ukrainian citizens say yes, the market needs to be opened in such a way to protect Ukrainian farmers. This requires that farmers be given the opportunity to rent as much land as they can handle. At the same time, those who own pies should be able to sell them to the State. And then the state should be the main player in the agricultural market. Then all procedures related to the transfer to agricultural land or transfer to use, the continued use of agricultural land, must be carried out in the interests of the State. That's my amendment. Please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u89	I bet on the vote 893 amendment of the People's Deputy Vlasenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:51]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 903. Lukashev, please. Pauline. Please, Pavlovenko, 903 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u90	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! I'm pointing out that unfortunately, two previous amendments to 882 and 883 were not my fault. I was in the hall and insisted that I be able to present them and actually put them to the vote. Dear Chairman, I'd like you to be a little bit more specific about the number of the amendments, and actually the authors of the amendments all of them, not just one, because unfortunately there's a lot of noise in the room and you're not feeling very well here. I would like to put to the vote 882nd, 883rd and, in fact, 903 amendments to the vote. They relate to our consistent position to protect Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian farmers and Ukrainian citizens from possible power-building in the context of land reform and the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u91	Let's put it on now. The only reason I can't hear is because I'm holding on to antiquities unlike most people, including the reporter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u92	Another set, 882? I'm betting on a vote of 882. The committee is not supported. Please Identify and Vote [[11:29:15]] For-43 The decision is not taken. The next line, Pauline, I take it that's part of it. Right? 83rd, it's partially accounted for. 903rd. 903 Lawn Pauline. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:29:50]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 904, Pawel.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u93	Dear Chairman, dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies! In turn, we point out that in the context of the consideration and preparation of the voting process as a whole, it is necessary to remove and analyse in detail all possible disagreements that are contained in the draft legislation prepared for the second reading. Because, unfortunately, this will lead to very serious problems in its implementation. Numerous appeals from local authorities, local self - government authorities, unified territorial communities, district councils, and landowners continue to be made about the serious threats they see in the adoption of this law in its implementation. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u94	I'll bet you 904 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:31:09]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. The princess insists? 908th, 909th. Right? Please turn on the microphone for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u95	Thank you. You know, I'm very sorry that such an important and necessary process of transferring land to private property is accompanied by a complete disregard for the Ukrainians. The fact that villages in Poltavščina are virtually empty, the fact that the Polynesian agriculture in Gutzulščina has been destroyed, and the fact that it will continue, is a terrible result of this so-called reform. But my question is that, given that we do not exclude the Supreme Council from entities that are authorized in land relations, the relevant rules governing this should remain in the code just as there is to be an obsessive standard for the approval of projects by the earth system. Please support these two 908s and 909s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u96	Are we voting on two amendments? I'm betting 908 voting rights. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:37]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 909 Knieżicki's amendment is not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:58]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Bogdan. What's that? 910th, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u97	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, look, we're speaking on the third day and we're talking about what's wrong with this law. In particular, I've been talking for a third day about uninventory and direct non-introduction of data into the State Land Cadastre. Ecologists approach me and say that there are really problems, and they insist on certain adjustments. Colleagues, so let me tell you a lot of diagrams that we're going to talk about. So let's get this law to work out, clean up all the schematics, and, above all, do our commitment to citizens and to the communities, do our inventory and input of all data into the State Land Cadastre, then there will be no disagreement. Believe me, this is the main thing that needs to be done today before any land laws are passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u98	I'm betting on the vote number 910 Yvchenka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:34:34]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Next item. 911? Yvchenko, 911.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u99	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what this paper is about. What if you give the land to the united territorial communities and the lease period that was concluded earlier than 2030, that is, 8 years later, communities can review the corresponding rental rate? It's not a rent, it's a rent, it's a rent, it's a rent, it's a rent, it's a rent, it's a rent, it's a rent, it's a rent, it's a rent, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, it's a rental, Listen! This is a bill for filling local budgets. People have the right to view the rent if it's too small on average in the area. What I'm going to say is that this lease rate is 3 percent, and they're already paying 7, 8 and 11 in many areas. Please support this revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u100	The 911 amendment of the People's Deputy Ivchenka is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:08]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Now, one second, colleagues. 925th, won't you insist? What's the number? You'll insist, won't you? Okay. 916th Kovalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, yesterday he had a conversation with the heads of the united territorial communities who expressed their support for the bill — number 2194. Do you know what they told me? That they didn't read it. They didn't read it at all. So we have time for everyone to get acquainted with this bill, then send it back for a second reading, clean up the lobby that's in this bill and get back to that question. So please, when you're in the district and communicating, please read this bill, see what it says and what it says. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u102	You require that this amendment be put to the vote. 916 amendment of the People's Deputy Kovalova, put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:37:38]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Fries. What's the number? Next, yours, right? 918th, Mazurau. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u103	Thank you. George Mazurashu, Servant of the People, 203 District. Well, in principle, with this bill, I'm pretty much getting it, and for me, it was an important answer from the committee's head yesterday, which is important to me. And I stand in the position to maintain as much control as possible of the maintained utility over agricultural lands. But I suggest to my colleagues, understanding that political responsibility will still be for those who vote or vote, that they should put to the vote only critical changes or those that are unaccounted for or relevant. And I want to draw attention to another question. Every day we have like national deputies, sorry, they steal votes, and so do I, because of technical and other problems. I invite you to cooperate in preparing changes to the Rules, which will allow us as national deputies to keep our voice, yes, to protect them. Because how will we protect the electorate if we cannot protect our voice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u104	I'll bet you a vote. No, I'm not, yes, I'm sorry. The next amendment we're going to have is 928th, Volosyn. Excuse me, 927th Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I reiterate that the position of the Fatherland Party is exactly what the previous speaker was talking about, namely the preservation of state control over Ukrainian agricultural land and so that the State can actually influence the agricultural land market. And to do that, first of all, we have to hold a referendum and ask the Ukrainian citizens if they're willing to open the market. Secondly, we need to give everyone who wants to sell pies a chance to sell them to the state at a market price. And thirdly, the State needs to be able to increase the agricultural land bank and to rent these agricultural land to those legal and natural persons who work on this land. And then, any other alienation, the purchase and sale of agricultural land should not take place. Only in these two ways that I've talked about. The one who wants to sell is selling to the state, and the state rents to those who work on the land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u106	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote 927 the amendment of the People's Deputy Vlasenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:40:58]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 928th. Voloshin. Don't insist. 929th. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u107	Thank you, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich. The principle of our position is to preserve all that's good. We want to warn our colleagues to follow the principle of "best is the enemy of good." In 2001, a very responsible Land Code was adopted, and the issue of issuing a State Act on Land Rights was settled. And we think that the changes proposed in the current Earth Code are inappropriate. That is why we ask to uphold our principle of professional correction. On the other hand, I would like to reiterate the principle of our political power's position on maintaining control over the use of agricultural land. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u108	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u109	Dear colleague, we have had a long time in the country confirming ownership rights is an extract from the register of property rights. The right to property in accordance with many laws in Ukraine has long been unissued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u110	I'm betting on the 929th vote, as the author said, the principle of amendment. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:56]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 932, Kovalov. We'll insist. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u111	I want to raise a question in this bill about disagreements in mine agreements. The bill states that it is only possible to exchange land in one area, in one field. I think, for example, in my 186 district, in the risk farming area in Hersonish, people got three areas the size of one piece of pie. What does that mean? If this bill is adopted, people will not be able to use their land fully by mine to another land area, because the portion of the pies is divided into crops of irrigation and the cultivation of the gods, which will lead to violations of their constitutional rights. Thank you for your attention. Please put my vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u112	I bet on the vote 932 amendment of the People's Deputy Kovalova. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:11]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number, Mazurau, 935. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 939th, Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u113	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, in fact, are prompted by the fact that, unfortunately, the bill proposes to open up the possibility of transferring land to foreign owners, stateless persons, foreign legal persons and foreign states. This, in our view, is unacceptable, since this rule is based on the protection of citizens’ rights to work in agriculture, food protection, and national security as a whole. I offer this right, since you are selling something to foreigners, and especially to those who are already working in Ukraine, the offer has been detailed on the possibility for foreigners to acquire land only under immovable property (buildings and buildings) located in this land area. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u114	I'm betting on a vote of 939 amendments to the national MPs of the Royal and the Pavlovka. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:45:54]] For-44 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 942, Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich or Elijah Volodymyrovich Kiva. Who's it gonna be? Nestor Ivanovich, please. You don't insist, do you? You insist. 942, I'll remind you not to get off number. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u115	Thank you. The issue in question is the solution to the issue of the granting of ownership rights to foreign states, to the placement of diplomatic representations. Today, there is a proposal to add: and foreign legal persons. Why? This issue is settled in the part concerning diplomatic representation. That is why we insist on leaving the text that is in the current Code of the Earth. As for acts, unfortunately, the practice that has been and is still in force today is not in line with the applicable standards of the Earth Code. So what do we have the rule of law or practice? That's why we require practice to be brought into line with the norms of the Earth Code that are in force today and now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I missed something, if I'm not mistaken. Have you started putting in confirmation papers? Nestor Ivanovich, colleagues! Yeah, 942 revisions -- this is a committee included -- I'm putting it in. I mean, you don't think she needs to be. Right? No, no, you've already spoken, Your Honor. I put her to the vote. The committee took her into account. The author thinks she shouldn't be. Right? Then I put her to a vote, 942 papers. The committee is accounted for. But please identify and vote. She's looking for confirmation. [[11:48:08]] For-160. The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Thank you. A duck. Don't insist. Voloshin. Don't insist. Coltunovich. Is he insisting? 955.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u117	Thank you, Mr. Head. 955, I insist. 956th, I'm asking you to report to the Gardener. And 957, I'm going to insist the same way. I'd like to pay attention, but here some colleagues are interested in the further fate of the amendments and the situation that has been, they're conducting parallels with Law 2178-10. So I would like to remind you that in our own time, why we also actively stood up for this position, we offered in Law 2178-10 a very, well, mildly speaking, inadequate standard of concentration of land. I'm sorry. Can two deputies step aside? And their back, of course, is not Coltunovich. But thank you. And that's about concentration. In its time, it was suggested that in the Odessa region, for example, there would be 207,000 hectares, in Dnipropetrovska, 200 acres, in the Kharkiv region, less than 200,000 hectares. These numbers were all real to the first reading. After reading between the first and the second readings after we made the amendments, when we considered our proposals, including through the committee, then the concentration of land fell to 100 hectares in one hand. I have come to realize that we will continue to insist on our amendments in order to eliminate shameful norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u118	I'll bet you 955 on Coltunovich's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:50:07]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 956 straight, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u119	Please give the word to the co-author, Jury Ivanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u120	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u121	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, you know, this law that we're considering is not in time at all. Because by opening up opportunities for foreign citizens and foreign legal persons to acquire Ukrainian land, we are essentially giving up our precious Ukrainian land to them. According to the World Bank, there are clear criteria for assessing the value of the earth. High-GDP Ukraine. This cost of land is very high, over $35,000 per hectare. In Ukraine, GDP per capita is one of the smallest in Europe — $3,686 per capita in 2020. And given this level of GDP per capita, we essentially give up our Ukrainian land for nothing. Thank you. Please place the check on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u122	I'll bet you 956 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:51:49]] For-42 The decision is not taken. 957 straight, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u123	Thank you, Mr. Head. We have also spoken today, not today, but during the consideration of this draft law, that the pool of bills proposed for the implementation of the so-called International Monetary Fund programmes and other international financial institutions that require the implementation of land reform, the privatization of strategic objects that are state-owned, the implementation of medical reform, pension, and so on, they do not fully reflect the national economic interests today. That's the first one. It's another important moment. We've repeatedly paid attention, 8 percent, to the estimates of our National Academy of Agrarian Sciences, 8 percent of the world's blacks. It's a serious resource so that it doesn't have to be accounted for by the current loans that exist today, you know what's increasing and government-guaranteed debt. But I'm deeply convinced that this is not the price that is going to cost $1 billion from the International Monetary Fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u124	I don't support the committee's vote of 957. Please identify and vote. [[11:53:19]] For-41 The decision is not taken. It's okay. It's Pavlenko, 961 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u125	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we continue to consistently defend that this law is not approved in the walls of this Supreme Council and we have not created problems for our Ukrainian citizens, both for today and for future generations. Even though we are trying to remove all the issues that unfortunately the authors of the law have put into the body of the bill. Therefore, please put to the vote 961 rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u126	I bet on the vote of 961 the amendment of the national deputy Lukasheva and Pavelek. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:54:40]] For-43 The decision is not taken. The following is Amendment 962 of Luke and Pauline. Please, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u127	Dear Mr. Head, the chairman, the distinguished people's deputies, unfortunately, are continuing to discuss the bill. And we don't just want to protect the Ukrainian peasant, we don't just want to protect the Ukrainian citizen's right to rule and own his land, we're trying in some way to create an effective system of power, because the balance, the chaoticity of today's power, unfortunately, translates great responsibility to people. Some strange way in recent years has been the fashion of any problem to solve, not by improving the efficient functioning of different levels of government, but by imposing all new and new fines, new and new responsibilities on citizens to protect citizens with their lives and health, at their expense often.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u128	Puts to the vote 962 amendments. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:15.]] For-38 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u129	Next amendment, Royal. Pavlenko, 975.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u130	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the amendment forms a new revision to article 130 of the Earth Code. And the key point in this point is that it is possible to acquire land by buying and selling land after a nationwide referendum on the possibility of selling agricultural land. We insist that any action on the sale of agricultural land should take place only after the holding of an all-Ukrainian referendum. I realize that this is not something I want to do to the authorities, the reason why, especially with regard to this, the closure of the three main information channels.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u131	I'm betting on a vote of 975. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:57]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item 976. I'm sorry, 978, Shufrich. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u132	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! We've created a whole GNEU, an entire expert group. Look, they've concluded that this bill, from the point of view of law, is worthless, and the content is rotten, which contradicts the interests of citizens as landowners. So I'd like to hear, Mr. Head, do we have a GNEU? To hear the reporter say yes, the GNEU said one thing, and the whole company's off its feet, one agrarian committee is on its way. Here's the thing. And I would like us to act on the basis of the Constitution if the experts say that they don't answer, what do you argue that is consistent with the Constitution? Mr. Reporter, and I'd like you to say only in a reasoned manner, with a reference to the law, with a shipment of legal definitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u133	I'll bet you 978 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:59:43]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 979th, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u134	So anyway, Mr. Head, I wanted to be answered in your presence as speaker, as Head of the Supreme Council, why are the instructions expert on not meeting these rules of the Constitution, and yet they go into the hall when citizens' rights as landowners are openly ignored? That's one, I'd like to hear it anyway. And the second. I want to say that after the Constitutional Court has reached a conclusion on the unconstitutionality of the draft, Bill 10, so to speak, you have immediately removed the Constitutional Court from reaching a decision. And now you want this law to remove people from the realization of these constitutional rights to the earth. And that's the limit on what we're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u135	Vassil Ivanovich, with all due respect, as a former judge of the Constitutional Court, you know very well that only he can determine constitutional or unconstitutional. During the time, yes, in Ukraine it is. While working on the committee, the committee takes its decisions and will now make its decision. As provided by the Constitution and by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. AND THE anger we have is really working, and for what should we thank them. I'm betting on the 979th vote. You spoke to me, I said it was my line, Vasil Ivanovich. You know the rules better than I do. I'll bet you 979 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:02:01]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 980, Kiwa. Shufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u136	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. During the vote for 942 amendments, I just insisted on putting it on the stand, because it was interesting how much the majority today was able to support the position of the Agrarian Policy Committee. Unfortunately, I can't. So Ruslan Alexiyovich and I deliberately decided to ask questions for confirmation. Sadly, Dmitri Alexanderovich was not at the beginning of his consideration of this amendment and did not understand what was being said. As for this amendment, I want to put it to a vote. I insist that priority should be given to the acquisition of land in the local council. Such practices, by the way, are very effective in Hungary, where the right to purchase is available to a neighbor, a resident of a village or a district if desired. If not, the government buys. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u137	980 Schuffritch's amendment, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:03:39]] For-37 No decision taken, no correction counted. Yvchenko, 995. Don't you insist? There's no insistence on the gun. Pauline doesn't insist, does she? Is he insisting? I didn't see it. 1010 right, Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u138	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Actually, 1010, 1011th and 1012th in a row, I suggest you put them up after my performance. In fact, the amendment in question refers to a change in the wording of article 130 of the Ukraine Code of Land, and in fact all three of the amendments are designed to make it more clear that Ukrainian citizens are protected from possible abuse or abuse of power, power of any level, protection of the ability of citizens to rent and to work honestly on the ground, protection against possible abuses that may and may be committed, unfortunately, today, in relation to them, the authorities of both local and state authorities. Please put three votes to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u139	Edit 1010. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:05:57]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1011. Please. I'll put it to a vote, I'll be back, Vadim Evgenovich, I can hear you. 1011. Please identify and vote. [[12:06:25]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And 1012 is correct. Please identify and vote. [[12:06:47]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 102, Kirilenko. I'm sorry, 1002 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, we have just listened to a wonderful pro-Ukrainian speech by the President of Lithuania, his sincere desire and the desire of a friendly country for us to support Ukraine in its reforms and, above all, to take into account their experience and not to make mistakes. With regard to land reform. Friends, what are our Lithuanian friends warning us about? In 2004, following Lithuania's accession to the European Union, a 10-year moratorium on the sale of land to non-residents was decided. And when this moratorium went down 10 years later, a market with huge warnings opened up. And yet, alien corporations have found the laziers and bought up the land. The situation in Latvia was about the same. Farmers are forced to rent locally in transnational corporations. They have to rent to survive, rent land. We don't have any warnings, take as many as you want: Novgorodski, Pskovsky, as the classic used to say. What are we doing, friends?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u141	I'm betting 1002 voting rights. Please identify and vote. [[12:08:27]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Puppet. No, I'm sorry. 1013 straight, Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u142	Thank you, Your Honor, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, I think we've all discussed many times over the week that amendments from opposition seem to block the adoption of important bills related to tariff cuts, simplified dispersion of cars on so-called euro fleas, etc. And what do we see today? We have two consecutive sessions, and there are very important bills for all citizens of Ukraine: about canceling the summer shift, about collecting agencies, something else. So listen, let's at least make a commitment to ourselves, that as long as we continue to discuss the amendments to the Earth Code, no one will tell us that we, the opposition, are somehow blocking important social bills. Because now you have a chance to put these social bills into the order of the day of the extracurricular session, you didn't do it, because you didn't plan it, in principle. You don't have to lie so openly. Now, if you'll excuse me, please put my vote to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u143	I'll put 1013 to the vote, Hair. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:10:11]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Coltunovich, next line 1014.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u144	Thank you, Mr. Head. There was talk of first-line acquisition of land rights. But that's not the point. The Association of Farmers and Private Landowners, I already told you yesterday that I made my remarks. I would like to pay particular attention to the legislative approach to giving drug users the right to purchase land for agricultural purposes. It is certainly indicated in the association that it does not comply with article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine and may lead to the uncontrolled use of agricultural land as a result of violations of the fundamental norms of the Constitution of Ukraine. That's the first one. One second. Now, my colleague Volosyn has already begun to talk about the priority of considering draft laws that are being put in place and in principle for an extraordinary session, which is scheduled today after 13 a.m. These draft laws have no effect on raising the real income of Ukrainian citizens. They don't affect economic growth and industrial production, exports.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u145	I'll bet you 1014. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:11:45]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Yvchenko. Don't insist. Is he insisting? 1022 correct. A, 1020 right, Kirilenko, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u146	Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to hear what Kirilenko said to Ivan Grigorovich. There are problems in Baltic countries such as Lithuania and Latvia. First of all, those who had cheap loans at the time bought them. This is West Germany, Poland basically bought, and the same Germans bought the same land with the Scandinavians in Latvia and Lithuania. And now the farmers of Lithuania and Latvia are forced to rent land in their own territory directly from Western investors and investors. Colleagues, this is what Ukrainian farmers will expect. They will rent the land directly to those investors or people with colossal assets. Colleagues, I'd like you to pay attention to this, and this law itself proposes such schemes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u147	I'll bet you 1020 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:13:30]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1023 law, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, I would like you to hear once again the voice of the communities that today need not only land management but also the economy of these lands. These lands are to make profits to the united territorial communities, which means they need to be given permission through some, we wrote, after 2030, to review contracts with a low rent. It is from the lease that these lands will generate their own funds for the territorial communities, and these funds will go to infrastructure objects. President Vladimir Zelenski speaks of a new Ukrainian village. So where do you get the money? So from here on out, it's possible to take the money for a new Ukrainian village just by raising the rent on state land, colleagues. Please support this concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u149	I'll bet you 1023. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:15:08]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Batenko. Don't insist. Pauline. Is he insisting? 1027.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u150	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The amendment is simple, but it confirms the sequence of our position in the struggle for the Ukrainians’ right to remain masters of their land. Part three of article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land is proposed to be excluded. I would also like to support the wise thoughts and voices of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to continue the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land before the outcome of the U.S. referendum is held and established. We also continue to do our utmost to prevent the removal of the ban on acquisition into the property of Ukrainian land by foreigners. Unfortunately, this is still provided by the bill. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u151	I'll bet you 1027. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:16:40]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, 1028.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u152	Thank you, Mr. Head. Again, I refer to foreign legal and physical persons, to the analytical documents that come to us, and to appeals from independent public organizations and farm associations, land users, and so forth. All of them warn us that the rule of transfer to foreign natural and legal persons can lead to congested or de facto, as they state, further loss of land. Why am I insisting on this? Because when we were looking at 2178-10, the fundamental line of principle or the main point that it was, it wasn't ownership of land. Now we're giving first use, in other legal acts, we're actually going to let them acquire this property in the future. We understand what is happening in Ukraine today from an economic point of view, and that is why such things should be impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u153	I'll bet you 1028. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:18:17]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 130 lashes, Fris. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u154	Mikolo Tarasovich, thank you for the many rights you have voted and supported. But this, I think, is the same question that we discussed with you, which requires further implementation. It seems to me that granting rural councils the same right to participate in a dominant right after the benefit or use of other persons who have a dominant right would still have the right to be considered. Do you feel that it would be wise to consider the matter later and to allow the right to purchase to the appropriate local rural councils, who are also members of the relevant legal relationship? I'm not putting her to the vote on this amendment. I'd like to hear the head of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u155	Thank you very much for your work. Mikolo Tarasovich, please have the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u156	Dear colleague, we have discussed this issue repeatedly on the committee, even at the level of the adoption of Law 2178-10. And now with associations of community cities and also with associations different from the agross. Unfortunately, it wasn't supported or, fortunately, on the committee, because in 90 percent of the cases, I think it's going to be that money is going to be denied the dominant right. And the subjects of the ransom were granted these rights to the local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u157	Don't put it to a vote, do you? Don't insist. Krasov. Don't insist. Pavlenko, 1034.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u158	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, you know, there's a discussion going on, and there's a reference: or maybe you could take your amendments off, not insist on them, and thus not block the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I could say that I would be happy to withdraw the amendment if I were to remove the law from consideration first. Secondly, if the Supreme Council of the day really had laws, bills that people are waiting for: which are aimed at raising the minimum standard of living at least twice, and such bills have been introduced by our colleagues from the Opposition Platform for Life; increased assistance at the birth of a child, at least until the level of 2013; bills aimed at implementing the Minsk Agreements; and corresponding approximation and return to Ukraine of peace. So if this agenda were on our table today, I think that's exactly the order of the day that people would support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u159	I'm betting on a 1034 vote, Pawel. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:21:57]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Pavlenko, 1035.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u160	This amendment applies to article 130 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. And I propose that it be complemented by a content that seeks to protect the rights of citizens of Ukraine who are entitled to permanent use, the right to permanent ownership of land by state and municipal property, have the right to purchase such land with a five-year payment schedule at a price equivalent to an expert valuation of such land. Convinced that every law that is passed within the walls of the Supreme Council should strengthen the protection of the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens, and that is what my right is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u161	1035, line Pauline. The committee is not supported. Are you going to be the committee's position, or can we vote? To the vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:23:22]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 1037. Yvchenko. Kirilenko? 1037.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, once again the priority of rent over sales. World experience: 70 percent of the world's leased land is owned primarily by the state or the municipality. Only one and a half percent per year move the land from the point of view of sales. Look, we're proposing, "Fatherland," if people already want to sell land, if they want to buy state or local government, the community will buy, with subsequent leases, not for 3, 5, 7, but for 40-50 years. First, the land remains under the control of the state, and this is the territory of the sovereign state. Second, the community has rent costs every day, it has nothing from the sale. Third. The farmer is quietly planning his future for two generations. Tell me, what's the question? Rent support, not sales. Put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u163	1037, Kirilenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:25:01]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Hair, are you insisting? 1039.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I, by the way, wanted to support what I was talking about now, Reverend John Kirilenko. If anyone remembers, they used to carry around in Kiev very actively with such a geopolitical project, by the way, then they begged to build it again, remember, Odessa-Broda, an oil pipeline that was supposed to continue to transport Azerbaijani oil to Europe through Poland. Thus, one of the key problems with the construction of the Polish oil pipeline was that oil pipelines were to take place in privately owned areas, and even physically agreed very often on the purchase of the land was extremely difficult. And what's more, it's suspected that some third players who weren't interested in building this pipeline were artificially pressured by private owners. That is to say, far from being always beautiful, when all the lands in the state are sold out, they are in private hands. Much more appropriate if farming really develops on leased land, for long - term, long - term land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u165	A vote is taken on amendment 1039 of the national deputy Volosin, Slavicsky. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:26:39]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1046, Kovalov. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u166	I'd like to make a note of the Committee's 1046th Amendment. In fact, the State should have the primary right to ransom agricultural land. So now we have a black market for agricultural land, which is going to start at thousands of dollars per hectare. That way, the government can better buy out and rent out, and in 10 years, we'll create a state stability fund that's in other states. And the state will be able to make money by renting land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u167	Amendment 1046, Kovalova. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:27:59]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Double. What's the readout? 1041? Please turn on the Dubyl microphone, 1041.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u168	Valérie Dubyl, Fatherland faction. Lachmus Paper: The adoption or non-admission of laws relating to the sale of Ukrainian agricultural land is an association with the Ukrainian people. The people who chose us, who made us sit in the hall, who delegated their authority to us. And that's why we keep saying, the position of our political power, that the all-U.S. referendum, and only after it, if we sell Ukrainian land, is only to the Ukrainian people, or the Ukrainian land agency, which will sell or rent land to the Ukrainian people. Today we should ask the Ukrainian people and our agrarians, can we vote for this land? Every week of the non-session, when they meet people and agrarians, they ask: Where are the loans you promised us; at what cost should we buy land; what should we do next? The position of our strength. We don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u169	I'll bet you a vote, 1041. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:29:40]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to questioning. There are 13 requests for the President, so there will be a vote, please don't split.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u170	Please take your seats. We have 13 requests from the people’s deputies to the President of Ukraine, and we remember that each request is voted twice. So I'm putting forward a roll-call vote in support of Alexie Kucherenk's request to the President of Ukraine for the execution by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of Presidential Decree No. 837/2019 (in relation to the drafting of the Ukrainian Housing Code). Please vote. [[12:30:38]] For-188. Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:31:07]] For-195 The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by the request of a group of national deputies (Kunayeva, Kasaya, and others). Only 12 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the postponement of the celebration in Ukraine on the first Sunday of July, with the aim of restoring and multiplying the traditions of the country's aviation, and on the occasion of the 145th anniversary of the first flight of the airplane in Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:31:53]] For 262 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:32:17]] For 276 Decision taken. The next MP's request. There is an open-ended vote in support of Andrija Sharaskin's request to the President of Ukraine for a national award by the Order of Bogdan Hmelnických II, Colonel Pugachov Aleksija Igorovich. Please vote. [[12:32:54]] For 219 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:33:18]] For 224 Unfortunately, no decision is made. It's out in the open. By factions, please show me. Thank you. There is an open-ended vote in support of the request made by Dmitri Lubinz to the President of Ukraine to prevent the further development of the zirconia genealogy in the region of Donetsk. Please vote. [[12:33:58]] For 233 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:34:22]] For 247 Decision taken. An open-ended vote supports Alexander Bakumov’s request to the President of Ukraine for the protection of the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to a safe life and health environment in connection with the drug use of the Kharkova District Microregion. Please vote. [[12:35:01]] For 277 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:35:26]] For-286 Decision taken. It is an open-ended roll-call vote that supports the request of Valentina Naftogaz of Ukraine and Alexia Kucherenka to the President of Ukraine to respond to the violations of the activities of "Naftogaz of Ukraine", which were discovered in 2020 by the National Audit Service of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:36:05]] For 196 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:36:32]] For 205 The decision is not taken. It's an open-ended roll-call vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions, please. Thank you. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Kingdom, Solod, and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine reiterating the rights of citizens in the area of social protection. Please vote. [[12:37:21]] For a hundred and Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please identify yourself. [[12:37:48]] For 178. The decision is not taken. Put to the roll a roll vote to support the request of a group of national MPs. — Napolichenka, Nikolainka, and others. A total of 4 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the abuse by officials of the NAEC "Energot" in the field of safety of nuclear power plants. Please vote. [[12:38:28]] For 233 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, we are being determined. [[12:38:53]] For 229 Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by the request of a group of national deputies (Gorbenka, Tsakchenka, and others). Only 33 deputies) to the President of Ukraine (well, you won't be hearing a question! Can I have a little quieter?!) to the President of Ukraine on the release of Hayday Sergey Volodymyrovich from office as head of the Luhansk District Administration, the head of the regional military and civil administration in connection with his violation of Ukrainian legislation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:39:45]] For 211 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to impose a pre-supported parliamentary request on the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:40:14]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, one more important question. It is an open-ended vote to support Sergey Vlasenka's request to the President of Ukraine for the immediate publication of the “Strategy of Depopulation and Reintegration of the Interim Occupied Territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the City of Sevastopol”. Please vote. [[12:40:56]] For 168 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to impose a pre-supported parliamentary request on the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:41:21]] For 186 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. I'll read: According to factions: "Serve of the People" – 96, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 3, "European Solidarity" – 24, "Fathership" – 13, "For the Future" – 11, "Voice" – 17, "Trust" – 14, non-fractional – 8. An open-ended vote is supported by the request of a group of national MPs (Girl, Gritchcock, and others). A total of 44 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the need to restore the plantation of the world-renowned aircraft designer Igor Sikorski in Kiev. Please vote. [[12:42:12]] For 278 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:42:36]] For 281 Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports Roman Lozinski's request to the President of Ukraine for a proper response to Alexia Arestovich's public statement on March 16, 2021. Please vote. [[12:43:09]] For-136 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. That you're so pleased, that's your colleague's request. The factions, please. Thank you. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by the request of a group of national deputies (Capitina, Kasaya, and others). A total of 8 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to eliminate the Kharkiv state airline crisis. Please vote. [[12:43:56]] For 205 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:44:19]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, during the plenary week, 166 parliamentary inquiries were made. Of these: President 13, no requests have been made to the authorities of the Supreme Council, to the Cabinet of Ministers 69, to the heads of other public authorities 62, to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine 22. In the past plenary weeks, 38 parliamentary requests have remained unannounced. All for the announcement of 214 parliamentary requests. So it's the questions of the national MPs. Sergey Vlasenka to the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for information on requests from the State Bureau of Investigation sent to the law enforcement authorities for the purpose of international investigation and extradition of Viktor Yanuković, Alex Zaharchenk, and other associates of the anti - state regime, Viktor Yanuković. Dmitry Nalotova to the Scherbanian Rural Head, head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine for violations of the requirements of environmental legislation. Mikoli Kucher and Larissa Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Commission for the Elimination of the Office of Large Taxpayers of the State Tax Service, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine on the accrual of income (wage) to citizens of Narusevich N.O. a company with which she was not in a working relationship that caused the subsidy to be withdrawn. Marijana Bezugola to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the creation of a museum called Igor Sikorsky in a building located on Yaroslavov Val Street, 15-B in Kiev. Marijana Bezugola to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, head of the Obolonian District in Kiev State Administration, Kiev City Head, for the cessation of unauthorized trade in the area of the station "Heroy Dnipra" in Kiev. Marina Bardinau to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of an education facility (school) in the Pozniaki microregion, 4 and 4-A in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Igor Negulewski to the temporary duty of head of the State Labour Service of Ukraine, head of the State Service of Ukraine to emergency situations, acting as Head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, Head of State Sanitary Officer of the Mikolai district for information. Igora Negulewski to the State Enterprise "The Administration of the Seaports of Ukraine", the Private Shareholders Association "Dnipropetrovský thermal repair plant", the Private Shareholders' Association "Kievska electric repair plant", the Private Shareholders' Association "Ginning Plant Specialization Obsolete", the Private Shareholders' Association "Restoration Plant", the Private Shareholders' Association "Korostene Plant of Iron Concrete Slippers" regarding the provision of information. Geo Leros to the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for investigating the collapse of the Ukrainian Special Forces operation against Wagner’s PSC regarding the head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Andrija Borisovich Jermak. Geo Leros to the head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency on the possible abuse of DP "NAEK Energoat" in violation of the requirements of the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act "To work after the completion of the construction of the Central Nuclear Fuel Repository" and to contribute to the alleged abuses by Vice-President of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Tatarov Oleg Juriovich. Geo Leros to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the introduction of sanctions against TU "Quartal 95" for the sale of the franchise of the League of Laughs for a broadcast on the Russian channel "STS", which is currently on the sanctions lists of Ukraine's RNB, which can be regarded as propaganda and legalization of the ORDLO in the aggressor country. Geo Leros to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the possible abuse of DP "NAEK Energoat" leadership in the violations of the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and the Ukrainian Law "On the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security" "On the completion of the construction of the Central Nuclear Fuel Repository" and the possible contribution to the alleged abuses by Deputy Chief of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Tatarov Oleg Juriovich. Julius Ovzitnikovov to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Director-General of the Kyivzelenbud Commune for the preservation of the Order of the Konoplanka River Valley. Dmitry Travel to the Head of the Public Shareholders' Association of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine for the provision of information. Dmitry Putnam to the Director-General of the Crushing Association for Information. Roman Gritchcock to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of transferring the laboratory corps to the Institute of Physiology of the Mantis. Roman Gritchcock to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on transparency and publicity in the use of expenditure in the field of education. Maxim Dirdin to the Shareholders' Association of the State Shareholders Company of the Roads of Ukraine to pay off the debt on the wages of DP "Mikolayivski oblovtododor" and other issues. Groups of National Deputies (Tistics, Jurassic and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine concerning the detention of ICC employees with smuggling abroad with the Republic of Poland. Groups of National Deputies (Tistika, Kamelchuka, Cusbita) to the Attorney General regarding the detention of ICC employees with smuggling abroad with the Republic of Poland. Maria Mezentsevý to the director of the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities to provide information on the use of public budget funds allocated to financial support for people with disabilities. Olega Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the recalculation of the KP "Poltava District Council of the CoR "Poltavavovodokal" and other municipal enterprises in accordance with the Ukrainian Cabinet Decision No. 332 of 18 May 2017. Alexander Jurchenka to the Kyiv City Head, Head of the National Police Department of the National Police Department, Director of the Department of Transport Infrastructure of the Executive Body of the Kyiv City Council (Kyiv City State Administration), for the administration of the sidewalk on the street of Akademik Pisarzewski, in the Bologna district of Kiev. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the promotion of the introduction of the codes of the State Classification of Objects of the Administrative and Territorial System of Ukraine's Human Settlements into the One State Electronic System in the Construction Area. Vladimir Timothychuk to the Attorney General regarding the improper conduct of an investigation. Victoria Kinsburg to the Secretary of the Kharkiv City Council on the need to establish a traffic safety light on the street crossing of Oscepkov and Rybalka in Kharkiv. Olga Saladuha to the minister of youth and sports of Ukraine on the issue of establishing legal principles for the first athlete. Irina Herashchenko to the head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Broadcasting, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the use of response measures on live broadcasts by the representative of the Russian occupation administration in the separate areas of Luhansk Region of Miroshnik R.V. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the rationality of the use of state property and the non-bankruptcy of the PRAT "Corostene plant of iron concrete bars". Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of quarantine zones, taking into account the condition in each administrative unit of the region. People’s Deputies ( Weaving, Shinkarenka, and others, only 4) to the Attorney General’s Office regarding the use of effective measures to properly conduct criminal investigations. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others, only 4 deputies) to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine regarding the need to carry out a comprehensive verification of the long-term failure to execute a pension decision. Oleg Volosin to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the reaction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to some of the claims made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the PRC. Geo Leros to the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine on the conduct of investigations by the State Bureau of Investigation into the collapse of the Ukrainian Special Forces operation against the PSC of Wagner, regarding the head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Andrija Borisovich Jermak. Jury Zdebski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the search for missing persons under the special circumstances of the military forces of the State Border Service of Ukraine. Maxim Berezin to the head of Poltava District State Administration, Director of the State Agency for Local Roads of the Poltava Region, on the need for urgent repair of the road cover of the S-170242 Lochvitsa-Hadzic-Ochtirka road - CAT "The Great Pisarovka-Vethalovka-Konolova-Srednjaki" in Poltavsk district. Vladimir Timothychuk to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for conducting a criminal investigation. Fedor Venislavski to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, head of the National Police of Ukraine, Chief Investigator of Financial Investigations of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for Information. Michael Bondar to the temporary duty of head of the National Health Service of Ukraine on the issue of establishing access to all buildings and health facilities in the town of Kamyanka-Buzka Lviv district. Michael Bondar to the director of the Department of Education and Science of the Lviv District State Administration, head of the Lviv District Authority on the creditor's debt for electricity and the heat supply of preschool facilities in the city of Broda Lviv. Alexander Tkachenka to the Attorney General’s Office on the need for a comprehensive examination of the facts of the breach of reasonable terms of pretrial investigation. Groups of National Deputies (Mandija, Zaslavski and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on issues related to the activities of structural units in the area of social protection. Dmitra Kostuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the operation of the operational headquarters to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the Gitomirsk region. Dmitra Kostuk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the preservation of the Suez School of the Novograd-Wallin Region of Žitomir Region. Jury Zdebski to the head of the Ukrainian State Border Service for providing information on financial security and material and technical security for the Ukrainian State Border Service. Victor Mjalik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine for the opening of an additional simplified border crossing point between the village of Staré Selo (Ukraine) – the village of Djrjinsk (Republic of Belarus) in the Otola ceremony. Marijana Bezugola to the city’s Kiev head on the adoption of measures for the balance of the Obalonian Coast and the reconstruction of the Prirično Street. Maxima Berezin is head of the Poltava District State Administration for the inclusion of the "Reconstruction of the Sports Course Under the Art Course for Mini-Football" and "Reconstruction of Multi-Functional Course for Playing Sports in the Lochvitsky Public School No.2 to the list of objects to be financed in 2021 as part of the implementation of the Poltava Regional Programme for Physical Culture and Sports. Maxima Berezin is the head of the Poltava District State Administration for the inclusion of artesian drilling projects in the Lochwiat District Community population in the 2021 Plan of Action of the Poltava District Program "Pitna Voda Poltavščina" for 2021-2025. Maxima Berezin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for the thermal modernization of the Lochvitsky Gymnasium No. 1 of the Lochvitsk City Council of the Poltavian Region. Anna Speedhod to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of the smuggling of wild birds and amendments to the CMU Ordinance on the ban on the export of wild birds from Ukraine. Anna Speedhod to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the prohibition of the use of toxic substances for the purpose of protecting and protecting nature. Groups of National Deputies (Tistika, Network, Juras) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of the International Law specialty to the "Right" field of knowledge. Peter Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inappropriate consideration of the parliamentary address concerning the book "Princess + Princess: Long and Happy" (author of O'Neill Katie, 2019). Alexander Bakumov to the Director-General of the State Enterprise V.O. Malisheva on the activities of the state-owned company W.O. Malisheva." Alexander Bakumov to the Director-General of the Ucrobonprom State Concert concerning the activities of the State Enterprise V.O. Malisheva and its financial support. Roman Gritchcock to the Attorney General for the function of electronic documentation in the Office of the Prosecutor. Roman Gritchcock to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the development of the road and road infrastructure of small-scale (private) micro-regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u172	In connection with the fact that there were so many MPs, and the last time I couldn’t finish them was when I finished them. Roman Gritchcock to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the development of the road and road infrastructure of small-scale (private) micro-regions. Maxim Dirdin to the head of the State Service of Ukraine with extraordinary situations regarding the verification of the work of T.O. "Epicent K" in the city of Pervomaysk Mikolayivsk district to comply with the requirements of laws and other legal and regulatory acts on fire safety. Sergey Ljowczyna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative consequences of unsatisfactory vaccination rates. Bogdan Kitsak to head the National Police of Ukraine for the implementation of the Community Police Officer Program. Alexander Kornienka to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, State Secretary of the Ministry of Reintegration of Preoccupied Areas of Ukraine, State Secretary of the Ministry of Strategic Industry of Ukraine, State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, State Secretary of the Ministry of Development of Communities and Areas of Ukraine, State Secretary of the Ministry of Energy of Ukraine on the provision of information on the status of filling vacant posts for reform professionals. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of BCG vaccine to medical institutions. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amending the Ukrainian Budget Code in part of the payment of environmental taxes. Michael Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of the National Children's Hospital "OHMATDIT" ventilation system. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to Kiev City Head on bringing to the right state of the land and other adjuvant territory of the building at the address: Mečnikov Street 7-B in connection with the inability to carry out construction works by the builder TOV "Budinform" in the area mentioned. Alexia Kovalova to the Attorney-General on possible illegal actions and/or the inaction of employees of the SOU DFS in the Odessa Region and the procedural leaders in the course of the pretrial investigation. Alexia Kovalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfying state of the road covering the roadway of the general use of the local meaning of Heroic - Old Zburiyevka. Alexia Kovalova to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on possible illegal activities and/or on the inaction of the employees of Department No. 1 of the Skadov GNP in the Herson area during the conduct of the pre-trial investigation. Alexia Kovalova to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Herson District State Administration on possible illegal actions and/or the inaction of officials of the Herson District State Administration during the preparation and conduct of the passenger transport competition. Alexander Tkachenka and Antonina Slavicki to the Attorney General’s Office regarding the verification of possible unlawful interference with the activities of the host subject. Igor Guza to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need to expand the list of medicines that are fully or partially reimbursed under the "Available medicines" program. Igor Guza to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need to establish a police unit in Novovolinsk. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to resolve the issue of the debt of PETG "Teplovik" to AT NAK "Naftogaz Ukraine". Alexander Gerega to the head of the Hmelnick district public administration for the provision of the Jarmolinec multi-profession hospital by a computer tomographer. Alexia Zmerenecki to the head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine regarding the non-application of measures to collect tax debts. Alexia Zmerenecki to the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine on the publication of information on the renewal of the licence. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Attorney General, Darnicki Police Department of the National Police Department in Kiev, Kyiv Local Prosecutor's Office No. 2, the head of the Kyiv City Prosecutor's Office on the statistics of the H.E. "Our Government" with complaints about owners. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Ukrainian Railway Association for the purpose of damage to the shareholders' society. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the provision of proper and uninterrupted technical services to the NDSL "OHMATDIT". Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Social Policy, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the amount of compensation and assistance to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Dmitry Kostuk is under the responsibility of the Minister of Energy of Ukraine to collect the subscription fee for transporting gas. Alexander Kunicko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the introduction of a video surveillance system in the Ministry of Internal Affairs service centres and features of the electronic queue. Nestor Schufrich to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for information on the cost of purchase by Ukraine of the Indian Covishield vaccine. Nelly Yakovlieva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution to the problem of providing critical services to a settlement near the line of delimitation. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General, on the inadmissibility of the arbitrary transfer of the administrative centre of the Pomorian Rural Community of the Zoločov Region of Lviv region from the village of the town of Pomorjani to the village of Ramezovci. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister for Community and Regional Development of Ukraine for the grant of a State budget subsidy to the local budget for the development of a comprehensive spatial development plan for the areas of Kamen Kashir City District Society. Solomonia Bobrovsky, head of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection in relation to the environmental situation in the area of death. The Clave of the Plains region in connection with the economic activity of individual enterprises Sergey Nagorniak to the head of the National Police Department in the Cherkas region on the state of criminal conduct following the non-payment of salaries by the management of the Potasian HPDAC "Bread of Ukraine". July of the Head of the State Agency for Motorways of Ukraine for the repair of R-79/M-18/Sakhnovščina – Izum-Kupyansk – Pisky CAT. July of the Head of the State Agency for Motorways of Ukraine on the repair of the road T-21-21 Lozov – Twins – Barbinkova – Velika Komišovaha. Tetjana Ryabuha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes in the order and conditions of granting a subsidy from the State budget to local budgets for the implementation of the programme "Problem school for better results". Gennady Watzak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, State Agency of Infrastructure Projects of Ukraine on guaranteed financing of airport infrastructure in 2021. Tatyana Placzkova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the Odessa District State Administration, Odessa City Head, on the need for a comprehensive solution to the issue of the emergency situation of the landless hydrotechnical dam of the Hajibei Lima. Maxima Zujewa to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, for the non-admission of the liquidation of the State Enterprise "Seven Forest Farm". Irina Konstankevich to the Vice-Prime Minister for Digital Transformation of Ukraine for the grant of a subsidy from the State budget to the local budget for the development of the network of a centre for the provision of administrative services to the Lubeshian territorial community. Bogdan Torochti, head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund for dividends paid to Ukraine’s State Budget, is a government enterprise that is part of the administration of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. Paul Paulisch to the Ukrainian minister of health regarding the need for radiological equipment. Alexander Aliksiyczuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the reconstruction of the reception office of the Dublin City Hospital of the Plain region. Alexia Movcana to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the Government of the Ukrzalnica Association for the update of the mobile warehouse for the transport of passengers. Marina Bardina to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on an objective and impartial investigation into the circumstances of the robbery against Nikiforov Eugene Alexanderovich. Anatolya Kostuj to the head of the Government of the Private Shareholders Association of the Lvivoblanergo, Director-General of the Private Shareholders Association of the Private Shareholders Association of the Volinoblanergo, acting as Head of the Government, the Director-General of the Open Shareholders Association of the Ternopilloblanergo, the Executive Director of the Shareholders Association of the Blackballerge, the Head of the Shareholders Association for the procedure for the integration of new subscribers into electrical networks. Sergey Nagorniak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations and abuses in the construction of rural infirmary in the villages of Pugačivka, Sokolovka, Red Angle, Buziuka Jaszkovsky district. Igora Negulewski to the CEO of the state-owned enterprise Mikolaiowska Maritime Trade Port, the CEO of the State Enterprise "The Sea Trade Port "The Black Sea", the director of the duties of the Director of the State Enterprise "Odeska Maritime Trade Port", the head of the government of the private shareholding company "The Ukrainian Danube Cruise", the private shareholding company "Korostenska Zetotonski Spal" and the private shareholding company "The Dnipropetrovsk Heat Repair Plant", the private shareholding company "Prisporski Electroremont Company", the private shareholding company "Kiyev-Dniprovski Inter-branch transport company". Roman Lozinski to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the verification of possible actions aimed at the harm of Ukraine’s national security. Roman Lozinski to the minister of justice of Ukraine for improving the quality of the services of the RACS Drykow City Department. Roman Lozinski to the Attorney General on criminal conduct initiated by the Ukrainian Student Association. Romana Lozinski to the head of the Donetsk district government to stop the decision to transfer the Donetsk district art museum from the town of Dryzkowka to Kramatorsk. Paul Melnik to Deputy Prime Minister - Minister for Digital Transformation of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the area of communication and information on the issue of increasing the map of mobile communications, as well as the provision of mobile internet services to Primorsk, the village of Kirilovka, and other resorts of the Zaporezki District. Roman Lozinski to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the granting of a "social taxi" to the Wylikoyawi community. Oksana Savchuk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the restructuring of the State Institute of Vocational and Technical Education by joining the State Vocational and Technical Institute "Connotopian Professional Agrarian List" of the Sumski District. Jury Kamelchuk to the Red City Head, Director of the Redwater Channel Community Enterprise, for violations of the Redwater Channel CP. Artema Cnermoorova to the Department of State in the Mikolai district about the provision of information. Artema Cranmoorova to the Ukrainian State Service on Food Safety and Consumer Protection for Information. Artema Cnermoorov to the head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio talk about the lack of coverage of the T2 broadcast signal in the village of Domanyówka Mikolayevsk district and a number of community locations. Artema Cnermoorova to the National Fisheries Agency of Ukraine regarding the provision of information. And the last important question of the MP. Jaroslav Jurczynina to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the threat to Ukraine's national security. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome, I have read all the parliamentary requests. Thank you very much for listening. These are responsible deputies, who were not many in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, I remind you that there are two of them scheduled for an extraordinary session today. Some of the signed letters have already arrived at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now. No, wait, at 1:20 a.m., the first session is being held, and the order is being prepared. Unfortunately, we will not be able to hold an emergency meeting until the order is ready. After that, it is likely that there will be a second meeting with a list of questions, six questions, as I recall. In eight minutes, we'll start the next session. The first meeting, which will take place at 13:20 p.m., will address the issue of changing the calendar plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the first meeting. [[B in m in s a l in]] And second, there'll be an order, you'll see. Dear colleagues, all questions are given to you, except for one question. This is 4247 on medical devices. All the factions and MPs represented in Parliament's walls came forward, without exception, who asked for an immediate consideration of this bill under the so-called coded procedure that we have already applied. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. In five minutes, we will begin the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
