ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Ten years. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for electronic registration. I remind you that according to the most recent rules that exist in our room, we need to touch the sensor button after the registration begins. By holding the sensor button, pressing the "Z" green button and holding these two buttons simultaneously until the end of the registration, i.e. until the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Dear colleagues, before you register, I'm back. We just see the number of votes here. So they go, they go, they go, they go, and someone takes their fingers away at the last minute -- and immediately minus 5, 6, 7 people fall. So wait for the final results on the board, okay? Are you ready to register, Your Honor? Dear colleagues, let's get this straight, 10 o'clock is 10 o'clock, this is the beginning of our work day. Are you ready to register? [[B in m in s a l in]] But I can see everywhere that all the factions have empty spaces. Dear colleagues, please report to the Nationals. [[10:03:19]] 192 national deputies are registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with proposals, statements, and messages. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the national deputies to sign up for the performance. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogustic Elizabeth Petrovni, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Paul Frow.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u3	The word is given by Florov Paul Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to inform you that for the first time since the beginning of the SOVID-19 pandemic, there has been a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). From February 24 to 26, 21, nearly 300 parliamentarians from 57 countries in North America, Europe and Central Asia discussed, for the first time in the history of virtual session, the problems of ongoing conflicts, the impact of SOVID-19 on security, economics, the environment, democracy, elections and human rights in the OSCE region. One of the key issues in the agenda was once again the issue of aggression against Ukraine. Yes, the acting president of the Parliamentary Assembly, Peter Lord Bones, noted the lack of significant progress in the implementation of existing agreements on the resolution of the conflict in Ukraine, which continues to plague civilians. The acting Head of the OSCE and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Sweden, Ann Linde, noted that in the status of the Head of the OSCE, she had made her first visit to Ukraine, and it was to Donbas, as well as to the efforts to restore sovereignty, territorial integrity, unity and independence of Ukraine in internationally recognized borders, including Crimea and Sevastopol. OSCE Secretary General Helga Schmidt noted the importance of strengthening the technological and technical support of the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission in Ukraine. Members of the Ukrainian delegation, the head of the Ukrainian delegation Poturayev, the deputy of Herasimov, members of the Galajchuk and Frolov drew attention to the constant gross violation of international law by the Russian Federation, the failure to comply with international obligations, the illegal militarization of the Crimea, the security of the Black Sea region, the impact of the occupation of the Donbas part on the ecology of the east of Ukraine and all of Europe. In the context of the Crimea Platform initiative, the ultimate goal of which is the depopulation of the Ukrainian peninsula, we stressed the need to strengthen international cooperation in these five priority areas: the policy of non-recognition of the Crimea annexation; security, including freedom of navigation; effective sanctions against and continuation of the aggressor State; international humanitarian law and human rights protection; and overcoming the negative impact of the temporary occupation of Crimea on the economy and the environment. We shared with the OSCE Parliamentary colleagues the presentation of the Crimea Platform and informed them that the inauguration summit of this initiative was scheduled to take place in Kiev on August 23rd. In my speech, I also stressed that the protection of human rights during occupation is a key challenge in the OSCE region. The Russian - occupied Crimea and the area of Donbas have turned into areas of lawlessness that violate human rights and freedoms, where illegal passporting and forced citizenship are carried out, where violence, torture are committed. Persecution and suppression of any dissuasion has become a daily practice. Sadly, since the beginning of the conflict, more than 13,000 people have been killed and more than 25,000 injured. We also reported that Moscow continues to illegally integrate occupied areas into socio-economic, legal and humanitarian areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u5	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u7	Jurchisin National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u8	Good afternoon, colleagues. Suddenly, the spring came again a few days ago. As the President-in-Office told us, as a candidate for the Presidents, as well as representatives of the majority, that's when the landing starts. Sadly, this is not the case. Most of the time, we have a situation where political judges make decisions. And today you and I are going to have a discussion on the seemingly judicial system, but that's later. But what's true is that it's always springtime to create mechanisms before spring to create mechanisms that would allow people who really should carry it as a corrupter to avoid responsibility. What are we talking about? By the end of last year, in October, the Constitutional Court was completely absurd, as the Venice Commission had pointed out, to the abolition of responsibility for lying in declarations. Well, we don't have a prison if a person who's been brought to a standstill by the economic situation in the country, an epidemic, is forced to steal two chickens from his neighbor for survival, he or she is likely to be sitting. But the person who hid the two Mercedeses of the extraclass, or two houses, or didn't file a declaration at all, can now just effectively repent. Think about this absurdity, think about what our society now has in fact a signal from us: that a person who benefits from a common good, on a budget, a corrupter is not responsible, is effectively repentant, and a person who is forced by survival to transgress the law is guaranteed to sit down. Therefore, we now have the importance of correcting the mistakes made earlier. At the end of last year, we returned criminal responsibility for the lie in the declarations, but it was substantially weakened. The president then promised that he would return to prison. And people who lie to millions who hide for millions will have the prospect of imprisonment. We did not actually wait for the President and registered our bill at the end of last year. Early this year, the president registered his own. Today we have a chance to take back responsibility for the lie in the declaration, and today it's going to be on the law enforcement committee. We welcome the President at last. It is unfortunate that, of course, there is again a violation of the Rules, and these laws are not registered as alternatives. But we ask the public to pay attention: The return of responsibility for a lie in the form of a declaration is due by April 1st, otherwise no one will answer for another year, since April 1st is the end of the deadline for making declarations. Return responsibility for a lie in a declaration, plant corrupts, and we'll be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u9	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Vátarović Volodymyr Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u10	Please pass it on to Parbia Andria.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u11	Andrew Parubius. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u12	A characteristic feature of today’s authority is that, forgetting the enemy outside, the authorities are trying to fight inside with Ukrainian patriots. And today we're watching another show like this to cover up our own calculations, starting with the inability to provide the country with a vaccine and ending the economy and the failure to fight corruption. We still have the pro-Russian forces at the President's Office, DBD and other structures. We have Portan in the courts and the relevant decisions of the judges on the imprisonment of Ukrainian patriots: like the question of Sternek, like the harassment of "Rifmaster" and "Cuzmanko", as an attempt to prosecute the members of "European Solidarity" by Fedenia, Zviroby, Crnowol. We end up dealing with Wagnerians when the authorities release Russian mercenaries and murderers when veterans sit in jail. And on this background, there's another, disgraceful series with a turntable. And it's particularly cynical that this series refers to the question of prisoner exchange. " European solidarity" requires an end to the dirty campaign against Peter Dustenk. And I want to remind you that in a few years, our team managed to have a series of large-scale prisoner exchanges. In doing so, Prashenko did not betray either Russia or Tsema as the key witness of the crime or the Berkuts who shot us in Midan. They were personally released by Zelensky, on Putin’s personal order. "European Solidarity" also requires immediate action on persons suspected of terrorism. We believe that law enforcement authorities have sufficient evidence, and if so, they should present suspicions and concerns about choosing a precautionary measure against persons suspected of serious crime. I am convinced that the people who finance terrorism according to the decision of the RNB: Medvedchuk, Kozak -- should be in prison, not in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that's the demand of the Ukrainian people, that's the requirement of European Solidarity. And once again, we urge President Greensky to stop making cheap show shows that are easier to film than to make his own politics. But without the country's own understanding of the strategy, without its own understanding that the patriots of Ukraine are the foundation that protects Ukraine from Russian aggression, it is impossible to build a state. No reprisals, no political persecution!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u13	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyevich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Look, we have today's year of activity of the Cabinet of Ministers, and the economy of Ukraine is moving confidently towards its collapse. We have a wrong economic course, no economic program, no antisocial policy, no harmful tariff policy. All of this is the result of that activity and the inactivity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. January of the 21st year. We have 4 percent of the decline in industrial production, and that's because we have a low base of comparison that we have an industry that's actually going down 18 months in a row. Light industry – 15 percent drop, machine building – almost 10 percent, agriculture – almost 6 percent decline, and it also continues for 18 months in a row. Two cabinets of ministers of Greens have been ineffective, and so the second government has to be retired as well. What do we see next? The government is horrifying debts. Ninety-one billion dollars a day is government-guaranteed debt. Each citizen of Ukraine already has $2,000,200 in holding. At the time when the first government of Greens came, it was 82 billion, plus 9 billion dollars. We are told that they pay off their debts, and to this day they are only increasing. Then the economy is facing a social crisis, because we have almost 3 billion dollars in debt on wages, we have record debts on utilities -- almost 74 billion dollars. These are the concrete results of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and Zelenski, these are the results of overcoming poverty, the end of the poverty era and the doubling of the tariffs promised. And that's why, in order to shut the mouth of the opposition TV channels, the opposition MPs, the President introduces sanctions, introduces illegal, unconstitutional steps in relation to information channels, in relation to individual deputies from the Opposition Platform for Life. When there is nothing to offer in the economy, in social policy, in tariff policy, the authorities go into repression, the authorities go into political persecution. I understand that intellectual plentuse does not allow certain draft laws to be introduced here, but for this we can dissolve the Cabinet of Ministers and change, a new arrangement to propose, propose a new programme of activities, a new economic course, new instruments of government regulation of the economy that will encourage the introduction of modernization processes, processes to overcome poverty, and improve the quality of life in the country. To this day, however, the authorities have gone a long way toward deepening the repression, the pressure on television channels. And in fact, without trial, without investigation, and without decisions, the authorities are cynically covering up the fourth independent channel. We urge the authorities to resign if they are unable to overcome poverty in the country and give.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u15	The word is given to the national deputy Timothy Vladimir Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u16	Pass the word to Black Sea Artemus.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u17	Please, Artem Blackmaorov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u18	Good morning, chairman! Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Good morning, people of Ukraine! You know, I'm not tired of talking and defending the interests of my district, because, as it was said in Odysseus: We'll talk about our problems. I spent the last week in the county. I met almost all the heads of OTG, with the people, this is the unified Wozniesen region, which is 13 communities. And you know, the people who were talking to me, they were only talking about one problem -- that's a 30 percent discount on electricity. In their eyes, I saw despair, because 150,000 people in my area -- this is, I would like to remind you, this is the area of observation of the South Ukrainian nuclear power station. These are the people who have been getting this discount for 30 years of all of Ukraine's independence. Colleagues, before that, the nuclear power plant has always been a source of relief that has compensated people for the risks they face. Please tell us, though, how dangerous the power of an atom can be. And please tell me, did the atomic stations stop working? No, it's not. Then please answer one question: Why did people take away the only compensation for living in a risk zone? And I want to say not only about my fellow countrymen and the inhabitants of the 30-mile zone of the city of South Ukraine, but also about Ravenska, Zaporzik and Hmelnit region have also been left with this discount. Why do I say "one"? Because one percent that has to go back to the local communities to sell energy from Energoatum doesn't come back fully. Colleagues, that's one and a half billion dollars that haven't come back. It's a robbery! It's a robbery of people who are risking their lives around nuclear stations. Over this one percent they could do social projects of different scales. These could have been playgrounds, they could have been X-rays in the clinics, but unfortunately, this hasn't been there for a long time. I say hello to you, Mr. Prime Minister, because people are indignant that even those who live in the risk zone are looking in their pockets. So, honourable national MPs, I am addressing Mr. Prime Minister, the acting Minister of Energy, and colleagues from energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u19	Thank you. The word is given to national deputy Guzu Igor Volodymirovich instead of Labazuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u20	Igor Gus, 19th constituency, Volin, MP for the Future. I would like to refer to the leadership of the country, to the Prime Minister with two problems. In this room, half the deputies (a little less) are majority officials, and they are obliged to communicate with the electorate. He was in the county last week, too. Two very serious problems. First. People complain that, in fact, the lie that is in private hands today, in the hands of Firthash, is illegally cutting off gas stations, in fact, homes and entire houses. We're with you, the government has given us a position not to do so during quarantine and the heating season. They're looking for imaginary factors. Yes, there are debts. Well, you know, people today can't pay on time, there are certain, even very small, debts. They come in for imaginary reasons, they shut down whole houses, and they blackmail people from all over the house today. It can't be like that. People say, "Well, look, we're going to go there today, we're going to cover their jobs, we're going to look for other mechanisms." Because this is a violation of existing legislation. The heating season is over - then we'll think about how to get out of this situation. Because there are appropriate decisions. This is the first problem, and please respond. So the government has to find mechanisms to influence the management of fraud. Another problem. You and I were in the 2021 budget to keep some of the excise in local communities. But after January-February, not a single penny fell into the account of the directly united communities. Why? Because the government can't accept a sublegal act. Well, it's not a job either. That is, Parliament supports communities. There were discussions, there were long negotiations, there was the position of the Association of Cities, but the government couldn't accept a sublegal act, and actually for two months now, complex two months, you know the weather, other moments, actually communities around the country didn't get a penny out of, in fact, excise on fuel. I'm asking Mr. Schmigal to correct this situation immediately this week, to adopt an appropriate legal act, to return this debt to the local budgets, in January-February, and to go directly to the local communities from March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u21	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u22	Lord Chairman, good day to you all! May I have the floor to Chigozu Ahtem?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u23	Ahtem Chigoz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u24	Honorable colleagues, the Presidium, the people of Ukraine, the compatriots who are now in the territory of the occupied Crimea! Today, just seven years ago, a peaceful Picquet against a Russian invader was kidnapped, brutally tortured, and killed by Reshat Ametov. Please honor the memory of our heroes who gave their lives for their homeland for Ukraine. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Russia, a terrorist state, is still trying to break the will of the Crimean Tatar people and our patriotic citizens in Crimea in the struggle for their will, for their homeland and Ukraine. We support the creation of the Crimea Platform, but we insist that we adopt laws that protect the political rights of the Crimean Tatar people. And this is our responsibility with you, our Parliament. This applies to the Law on the Indigenous Peoples of Ukraine, the status of the Crimean Tatar nation. Finally, the State of Ukraine needs to adopt changes to the Constitution regarding the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. This will be a powerful signal for our enemies – Russia, it will be a very powerful signal to support our citizens in the Crimea in their struggle, it will be a powerful signal for our international partners. And, as you know, on February 11, the European Parliament adopted a resolution that clearly indicated the duty of our nation to adopt certain laws to protect the Crimean Tatar people. Please respond responsibly and finally put a dot on these questions. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u25	I see, National Deputy Schol, you said not to pass on the word. I would like to ask the people of Deputy Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Mary Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u27	Please, Maria Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u28	Thank you. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Ukrainians! The Central Election Commission has registered a well-known children's cardiosurgeon, volunteer and patriotic Ukrainian candidate, Yulia Kuzmenko, from "European Solidarity" in the 50th constituency in Donetsk. Why, Julia. Our team was very responsible for choosing a candidate in such an important district, and Julia, she's from the occupied Gorlovka, she's from Donbas, she knows his character, and she loves this country very much. From the first days of the war, she wanted to help the army and civilians. As a volunteer tens of times, she was on the front hundreds of times. And as a child doctor, she consulted the children of the front zone. She has a rare disease. Oh, I'm sorry, she has a rare profession, she's a child heart surgeon. For the past year, she has been unable to operate or rescue her children because she has been found guilty without trial and prosecution at a briefing where a hundred percent prosecutor, a reformer of Ryabosapek, President of Green and Minister of Interior has been declared responsible for the murder of Paul Sheremet Yulu, Jan and Reef. When dozens of volunteer and veteran social organizations approached our political party with the idea of putting Julia Kuzmenko as a candidate from our political power, we supported it immediately. And why "European Solidarity." Because for more than a year now, our team has systematically opposed the pro-Russian rematch and the political persecution of volunteers, veterans, defenders of Ukraine. We are against the political repression and selective justice of today’s authorities. And over the past year and a half, we've been in the courts and courts, where today, Reef 2, Sternenka, July, Fortuna. And we thank those political forces around us. And we are very sorry that in these courts other democratic forces are silent and act as if they don't notice the politicization of these trials and the use of investigation and force organs for political pressure and repression. And somehow neither the D.B.I., nor the B.B.I., nor the police are interested in returning corruption schemes, government purchases, and medically opaque purchases. And they're also not interested in the fact that successful companies have become profitable. And we can see that the oligarhat lifted its head. The enemies of the Greens regime have declared volunteers elected, veterans, and opposition. And it is notable that even another country, a claim made by former Belarusian forces, does not notice the involvement of the murder of Sheremet. Next trial, July 9th and Reef. We're going to take the whole faction on bail, and we're going to ask Reef to bail, and we're going to change the precautionary action for Yuli, who's now in a 24-hour house arrest so that she can carry out her political activities, her agitation at Donbassa, in her district. And we're addressing all the factions, including members of the People's Servants, who are aware of the politicization of this case, to come to trial. Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, we have four minutes left for this period. Next two national deputies from the Fatherland faction, they asked for all this time, four minutes, to pass on to Julius Volodymyr. So please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u30	Hello, fellows! I think you've read the agenda very carefully today. You see what questions are put in order of the day as priorities. It's all you want. For example, Act 4351-d on how to further improve corruption in the gaming business. Of course, in a country that already suffers from poverty so that people will soon leave Ukraine in general, because it will be incompatible with life, the main issue that has been identified as a priority today for consideration in parliament is the gaming business. And not just for today, for tomorrow's game business, for the day after tomorrow. They're exempting people from taxes, and where is the order of the day? Then we have a whole chapter in order of the day on deer, devils, jackals. It settles here, how do you plan the hunting, you know? Today, when people are sitting with tiny pensions below the standard of living, when today's tariffs are broken so that people are no longer able to pay, and 80 billion dollars today have accumulated debts to NAC Naftogaz for tariffs, please tell me about deer, birds and jackals here not bad to consider the law, is that your priority? What I'm saying is that it's already going to be completely out of bounds. In addition, we have the priorities of making advertising so that women and men can be mixed together and that advertising and women and men can be equally applied and that gender equality can be enjoyed. I'm for gender equality. But at a time when the country is falling, the economy is going down, it's going to be seen as priority laws. Is there any sense in this Supreme Council or not? I can tell you that there has never been such a disgrace and humiliation in this Supreme Council. We had a case where we had a major Law on bats. It was one case, and the Supreme Council was standing on its ears what was going on in the first place. But today, with the country so poor, we have the entire agenda simply permeated by lobbyist, corrupt laws, laws that are against Ukraine's interests and against people's interests. You know, we've all put together a daily agenda of bills that apply to tariffs. I have this document in my hands, where every faction has given its law on tariff policy regulation, so that people don't pay that kind of money to hold a session, and instead of advertising deer hunting, poultry and gambling, to adopt the tariff law that people need, we collect signatures for the next session. We've been collecting for two days. Do you know how many signatures have been collected? Instead of 150 - 69. Each opposition faction places half the signatures so that, for God's sake, we don't put tariff issues in the hall. And even one signature was not signed by the People's Servants, including for their tariff bills. Please tell me, why are priorities so determined? Why in this room is corruption, lobbying, giving away our Ukrainian resources, giving up land, industrial strategic enterprises and defenses, and people standing in the last place, and nobody cares that they barely live today? Look at the inflation that's in the country right now. People can't buy food anymore. And that's why I'm asking you to change the agenda, sign it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, we have completed this part. Showtime's up. Next: at the request of two MP factions, pursuant to article 27, paragraph 15, of the Law of the Ukraine on the Rules, we request a recess with a replacement for the performance. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zabrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend. Please, Mikhailo Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u32	Honorable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, in war, are known to have many dimensions. Humans and technicians, military units and troops are fighting in the war, and politicians and diplomats are fighting, factories and factories, educational institutions and construction offices, the banking sector, and the media are closing down. Each element has its own strength and resources and uses its forms and methods of fighting. But in any state, there's an element of the security and defence sector that combines all of these. It's about security. Our country's new history until all the famous events of July 20th had every chance of winning a big victory. It would be a brilliant implementation of the search for and detention of the prisoners from Wagner’s PVC. They're all professional killers. They are selected for military expertise and practical experience, according to recommendations and results. They get paid well, they get paid for murder. Their work has nothing to do with the noble protection of the Fatherland. They're "cheese geese," they're "dirty" mercenaries. And there is good reason to believe that it was by their hands that 49 aircraft and aircraft were killed in July 2014 in Il-76 near Lugansk Airport. At that time, the possibility of appreciating the death of war comrades was not presented, but nothing in life is unpunished. In the early 19th, thanks to the political will of the leadership of the country, the professionalism of our military personnel, the help of the partners was launched an unprecedented operation for today's detection, documentation and detention of those desiring to earn blood. About a year and a half of hard work. Everything was approaching brilliant realization, the forces and the means involved, and the best experts, but it happened "but." Not in a secret conspiracy apartment, not high up in the mountains or in the woods -- in the middle of our capital, in our office, probably our officials allowed what would never happen to happen: a leak of information that eventually led to a failure of the operation. A story that leaves more questions than answers. It is not clear how the Fae and the Involuntary, the attempts to ignore and silence, the confusion and dissatisfaction of society. It's a very difficult situation for all of us to come out of which the implementation of parliamentary control tools can be the outcome. This is the only way to break the curtain of lies and misunderstandings, and that is the only way to find the answer to two basic questions — who is to blame and how this has happened. Not all the political forces in this room demonstrate proper fear and indecision. The subsequent and principled position of the EU was demonstrated in the draft of the relevant decision on the creation of the TSC in September last year. Regrettably, fear and efforts to conceal all circumstances, and from time to time and lack of interest, have allowed the establishment of such a commission to be blocked for a long time. Today "European Solidarity" has done the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u33	Thank you. Thank you, Mikhailo Vitaliyovich. Dear colleagues, the list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making for today, is given to you. Let us go to their consideration. The first question is the report on the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation. Pursuant to article 232 with a prim badge. The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules the Supreme Council each year examines the report of the State Bureau of Investigation on the results of this body’s activities during the calendar year, the status of carrying out its tasks, the observance of human rights and freedoms, and the direction and means of enhancing the effectiveness of the State Bureau of Investigation. In accordance with article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on State Bureau of Investigation, the State Bureau of Investigation submits a written report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by February 15 of the previous year on its activities. A special committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on law enforcement conducted an appropriate preliminary preparation of the report for its consideration at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, the next order of action is proposed. Report of the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation to 20 minutes. Answers to questions from national MPs: up to 20 minutes. The presentation by the profile committee's representative is up to 10 minutes. Talks from MP factions and groups for up to 21 minutes. That's 71 minutes. Dear colleagues, to the report stand is invited to serve as Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Alexei Alexandrovich Suhachev. Please, Alexei Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u34	Good afternoon! Dear Mr. First Deputy Head, distinguished deputies, respected compatriots! It is a great privilege for me to report to you and the entire Ukrainian people in the session room on the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation. Today, society is given attention to the reform of the rule of law system, and there is a great hope for created law enforcement agencies that are supposed to protect every citizen from all forms of illegal acts and arbitrary acts. The recommendation is to support the major seven countries' development priorities for Ukraine, including the transformation of the State Bureau of Investigation into an effective and independent law enforcement body. That is why 2020 has become a historic year for us, especially because of the Supreme Council's legislative changes that have been supported by the President of Ukraine, the State Bureau of Investigation has become a law enforcement body. In addition, the Office's organizational structure and new units have been changed to implement the President's decree of 5 February 2020, namely: the Chief Operations Authority, the Chief Investigation Authority, the Chief Operations and Technical Administration, the Department of Personal Security. The creation of these units has allowed the entire range of search and investigation operations to take place in the course of pre-trial investigations, as well as the immediate response to socially dangerous events or emergencies. In particular, since the first hours of the terrible tragedy that took place on 25 September 2020 near the city of Chuguyiv in Kharkiv district and took 26 lives, the D.B.I. has launched an active investigation into the causes of the crash of the AN-26 military aircraft. The investigation was able to identify the causes of the disaster as quickly as possible and to obtain undisputed evidence that informed three persons of the suspicion, two of them still being held in custody. The preliminary investigation of this tragedy is under constant control by the President of Ukraine, which is scheduled to be completed by the end of April of this year. With a view to preventing such tragic incidents, we have initiated a verification by the State Audit Service of compliance with the requirements of effective legislation for the manufacture and operation of all aircraft manufactured by the state-owned Antonov company since 1991. In close cooperation with the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, an equally loud case was removed in connection with the explosions of military forces in the city of Svatova Lugansk district in October 2015 and took the lives of three military personnel and one civilian. As a result, two soldiers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces were reported. To date, more than 20 others have been taken full measures to establish and hold accountable. Special attention is paid to investigating torture and other misconduct committed by law enforcement officials. In 2020, 83 indictments were brought against 117 people, including 15 law enforcement officers. Other persons are being incriminated, besides torture, excess of authority, illegal detention and violation of rights of protection. Thanks to a concerted work with the Attorney General’s Office and the National Police Department, the investigation of tortures at the Kagarlic and Pavlovgrad Police Departments has been completed, the indictments have been sent to the court only for 13 police officers. So once again, I want to assure society that the State Bureau of Investigation will continue to defend the constitutional rights of citizens. Systemic work has also been initiated in the investigation of corruption criminal offences, which allowed the court to file 461 indictments in the 20th year, more than half of which involved receiving an unlawful advantage of a total of over 19 million dollars. This statistics confirm that the Bureau is taking significant shifts in the fight against a socially dangerous phenomenon such as corruption. Another priority of the work of investigators last year was the detection of crimes associated with tragic fires in the Odessa, Luhansk, and Kharkiv areas, which claimed 54 lives and caused significant material losses. During the 20th year, DBR investigators identified the causes of fires in Odessa, including the systematic improper performance of duties by the head of the Chief Directorate of DSS in Odessa. The indictment is referred to the court and the involvement of other officials is established. According to a pretrial investigation into large - scale fires in Luhansk, a suspect was reported to the manager and five officials of the General Directorate of DSS in the Luhansk region, who faked fire fighting. In connection with this, the Bureau initiated the State Audit Service of Financial Controls of the General Directorate of DNS in the Luhansk Region in the 21st year. In addition, in 2020, the DBD was dismantled by 15 criminal groups, which included 63 people, who increased 8 times as high as in the 19th. Nine criminal groups have been detected with corrupt links involved in illegal logging and logging, as well as fraud, the demand for wrong benefits, and the sale of narcotic drugs. In addition, the Bureau has been carrying out systematic work to combat smuggling, including reporting the suspicion of 7 employees of authorities controlling the movement of goods across the customs border. Of these, 62 were sent to the courts. The revitalization of the work in this direction has had a positive impact on the dynamics of filling Ukraine’s state budget. In the Odessa region alone, the combined operations of bureau staff in the last two months of the 20th year have increased customs payments by 21 percent, or by 1 billion 466 million dollars, compared to the same period in the 19th year, and illegal VAT compensation has been blocked to a group of enterprises in the same region of over 500 million dollars. Work to prevent the State's budget exhaustion is not out of our sight and beyond. In total, in 2020, the Bureau of Investigation conducted a preliminary investigation into over 43,000 criminal conducts, with an average of 105 criminal investigations. Nevertheless, the efficiency of the DBD investigators in comparison to the 19th year has increased by 4 times, especially during the 20th year more than 415 million dollars have been set aside. At the stage of the pretrial investigation, some 20 million dollars have been returned to the budget, and over 93 million dollars have been taken into custody. In cooperation with the National Agency for the Search and Management of Assets, more than 300 million dollars are transferred to its management. Positive dynamics in this direction do not stop. Yes, only the results of the work of the DBD in the two months of 2021 revealed and transferred assets to the NP of 1.4 billion dollars. In addition, the effectiveness of pretrial investigations into crimes against members of the Dignity Revolution has greatly improved. Yes, last year the D.B.I. investigators in Midan’s cases, in agreement with the Attorney General’s Office, were brought to justice by 40 persons, and 23 indictments were brought to trial. To date, investigators of the FBI are conducting a preliminary investigation into 12 criminal cases involving former high-ranking personnel, including sanctions by the European Union, namely the former President, the Minister of Internal Affairs and his deputy. From December of last year to the present time, the court was granted permission to conduct a special trial in absentia, allowing the perpetrators to be brought to criminal liability this year. With a view to informing society openly about the state of pretrial investigation of these crimes, reports to the public and to meetings with the families of the Heroes of the Celestial Sotny are initiated and continuously conducted. The completion of the Maydan investigation is one of the priority and most responsible tasks facing the State Bureau of Investigation in 2021. His execution is a matter of honor for us. With the aim of preventing and detecting offences in the activities of DBD employees in 2020, the internal control management has been completed as an effective mechanism for preventing corruption and other illegal attacks by DBD employees. By demonstrating zero tolerance for corruption, the Bureau is taking steps to prevent criminal misconduct among its employees. To this end, a comprehensive system of detection of corruption risks has been introduced, including through psychophysical research using a polygraph. To date, the DBR remains the only law enforcement agency that provides for mandatory conduct by its staff on a systemic basis at least once a year. In this context, it should be noted that the requirements for the selection of candidates for the DBR are quite strict. Among these are not only the availability of higher legal education and legal careers but also mandatory high moral qualities and integrity of reputation. At the end of the 20th year, at the end of this year, 65 percent of the Bureau's competitions were completed, 71 percent by 01.01.2021, 81 percent by 15.03. Transparent coverage of highly professional personnel is one of the priority tasks of the DBD in the current year. In addition, with the aim of rapid response and the quality of pretrial investigations into criminal offences attributed to the D.B.I., seven existing territorial authorities have created separate structures of the division with a location in each district center. Organisational and state changes do not change the total number of territorial governments, but they do significantly increase their mobility. As part of the development of a powerful and modern state law enforcement body, launched in the 20th year, we are well placed to interact with the prosecutor's office, which, in the order determined by the Ukrainian KPC, provides procedural guidance. There has also been an exchange of operational information and joint operations with the Attorney General’s Office, the Security Service, the National Police, NABU, the Ministry of Defence, the State Border and Tax Services. To improve the quality of communication, a great deal of work has been done in the introduction of advanced technologies and in the construction of a modern DBR information and telecommunications network. In general, more than three and a half thousand criminal investigations were initiated by the State Bureau of Investigation. In order to ensure transparency and civilian control of the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation, the Council of Public Control was formed by the end of 2020. As a result, the first annual report on the activities of the DBR was reviewed and approved at a meeting of the Public Control Board, as required by law. The Disciplinary Commission also became operational and the Bureau’s professional ethics rules were approved. The work done further ensures that the formation of the bureau team is only possible on the basis of common values that unite the DBD staff, namely, integrity, responsibility, professionalism, and determination. In order to prevent illegal acts, the State Bureau of Investigation constantly conducts information campaigns and informs society of its activities. In particular, over 1,000 700 news outlets have been posted on the official website during 2020, which has reviewed 6 million readers. Our team attaches great importance to the information and awareness of the activities of the Bureau. Then we will continue to work on enhancing the quality of D.B.I. communication with the public. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished First Deputy, distinguished deputies, respected Ukrainians! We have many challenges. So I can assure you that the State Bureau of Investigation, as an independent and effective law enforcement agency, will continue to be worthy of the protection of the rule of law, according to which man, his life, health, honor, dignity, integrity, and security are recognized as the highest social value. I'm sure we're moving in the right direction to prove to every Ukrainian citizen that the law is one for all. Thank you very much for your attention, and I am ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u35	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to questions from the national deputies of Ukraine. I remind you, it takes up to 20 minutes. So please sign up for the question. The word is given to the people's deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u36	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Suffrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u37	Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two questions to ask you. First. Please tell us, what is the state of the investigation into possible crimes committed by Peter Dustenk? And in particular, at what stage is Mr. Semochko's illegal appointment now known as the first deputy head of the External Intelligence Service? And the second question. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Legal Policy Committee, you were presented with information about the illegal involvement of the Ukrainian Security Service in journalistic activities and the obstruction of Journalist activities of the First Independent, resulting in the interruption of satellite language and the distribution of speech on the cable network. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u39	Thank you for asking. It's about the first question. In a series of conducts under investigation by the State Bureau of Investigation, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko was repeatedly questioned. Today, international assignments are being carried out and a number of experts are being conducted, resulting in the final decision being made by the investigators. It's about Semochka. It's in the Cave Court, so the case is closed. Regarding the meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council yesterday. Indeed, the question was raised. But at the address of the State Bureau of Investigation or Regional Administrations on 3.33. In 2021, no statement, statement, or information was received. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u40	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Principality of Mikola Leonidovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Geo Leros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u42	National deputy Geo Leros, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u43	Alexy Alexanderovich, first of all, this report is bullshit. Secondly, I have a question for you: when are you going to start questioning the corrupt MPs of the ruling party? That's the first question. Do you question the opposition’s deputies exclusively? Second question. When are you going to hand over the suspect, Andri Borisovich Jermak, for breaking down the "vagant" operation for treason? When that happens, name the date. And the third. I want to remind you how Mr. Trub ended up for politically motivated matters. Similarly, you will end when Mr. Tatar and Mr. Jermak call you from the Office of the President and give instructions on whom to question and whom not. Thank you. Answer two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. There's four of them. Therefore, I ask for these criminal conducts in my name with personal questions, and we will work them out and answer them according to the Criminal Procedure Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u45	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Gorbenko Ruslan Alexanderovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u46	Good afternoon, colleagues! Thank you so much for the report. Thank you also very much to the State Bureau of Investigation for working with the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on fires in Lugansk. Your body is the only law enforcement body that shows cooperation and results by fact, not by paper. But we do. is Information and we ask for audits and verifications by the Chief Forest and Hunting Administration of the Lugansk Region, because there have been tendering for the last six years for the planting of forest plantations, but there are no plantations themselves. And the main version of the cause of fire is illegal logging. And why did the law enforcement authorities not control this illegal logging, and where are the landings themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u47	Thank you for your questions and information. We will immediately respond to the events and the immediate results of the first results we will inform you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u48	The word is given to the National MP of Sofia Romanovna, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u49	You were talking about honor today. Well, you have no honor or dignity in general. And that's what I've seen on my own. But the question is, when will Shufrich, Kuzmin, and other MPs be called to account for the notoriously false report of the crime? Next question. How can you explain the systematic violations of the DBR of Ukrainian KPC regulations regarding territorial jurisdiction? Next. Explain the reasons why the D.B.I. investigators were avoided from carrying out the approval of the Shevchenkov Court. And I can point out that in your work too much politics, too little law. And in particular, all decisions taken in violation of territorial jurisdiction should not only be closed, but all people should be compensated for their moral and physical harm.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u50	Thank you for asking, and thank you for the assessment given to the work of the State Bureau of Investigation. As far as the Cave Court is concerned. Pursuant to the Criminal Procedure Code, investigators are seeking to execute and enforce their procedural powers at the location of the pretrial investigation body, as defined by the Criminal Procedure Code. At the same time, according to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the location of the judicial investigation body is its legal address. State Bureau of Investigation, Legal Address: City of Kiev, Panas Mirnoye, 28. The building is currently under construction, and in the 21st year, we're finishing repairs. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u51	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Nekludov Vladen Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u53	Vladen Mikhailovich Nekludov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u54	Thank you very much. Dear Alex Alexanderovich, it is very nice to hear your report, and I have personally studied the work of the State Bureau of Investigation, and in particular the special department of criminal investigation into the Maydan case. And these figures are three times the size of the special unit that was at the Attorney General's Office, the Horbatuk unit is called, in Lucenka's time, three times the size of these figures. But at the same time, I am concerned that the criminal investigation into the shooting of people in Maidan, on the Institute, on Yanukovic, on Zacharychenka and others has not yet ended. We adopted Law 2164, in our first reading, on pretrial investigation and judgment. How do you feel about the practice or the adoption of this bill, or will it have a positive, effective effect on the investigation of these conducts and on the judicial process, as you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u55	This is a very painful question for the whole of society and the State Bureau of Investigation. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Midan administration was formed only in January of the 20th year. There are also some results. We will be grateful for your support and for your cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u56	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Volodymyr Viktorovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u57	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Murmitch Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u58	Please, National Deputy Burmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u59	Honorable doer, please tell us on the basis of what materials and statements did you file a criminal case against the Head of the Constitutional Court? That's the first question. And the second question. Why isn't there a criminal case over the same self-government, abuse, obstruction of journalistic activity with regard to those people who shut down the First Independent Channel that journalists created? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u60	Dear Mr. Anatoly, I would like to report that, indeed, the State Bureau of Investigation is conducting a trial in separate criminal proceedings against the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. At the same time, only one of them has been reported as a suspect today, and a number of expertise is ongoing. The results of all necessary investigations will result in a final decision on the matter. As for the second question, about the channel. If I'm not mistaken, I've already answered this question, but I will repeat that the address of the State Bureau of Investigation has not received any report, a request, a request from a public organization, a national deputy or another person who has the right to do so, so we are not in a position to comment on the decision of the National Security Council outside the criminal process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u61	The word is given to the National Deputy Rudik Kiri Alexandrovni, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u62	I give the word of Osadchuku Andrija Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u63	Andrew Petrovich Osadchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u64	In October of last year, the highest officials of the State publicly accused the Head of the Constitutional Court of committing serious crimes. The Voice faction, for its part, filed an appropriate application for the commission of a crime by the Head of the Constitutional Court to the Attorney General's Office. Please tell us now, on March 2021, are these applications and our applications under investigation? Do they have prospects? And when do you expect the investigation to be completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. In fact, our address came with references and statements from your political power, taken into account in criminal conduct, and carried out a test of the facts. In the near future, we will produce a result of several criminal acts regarding the actions of the courts of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u66	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u67	Please give Alexia the potcherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u68	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u69	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Honorable responsibilities, why do you not tell the truth? Why do you like to be on the street of the Peace Lord, where you are not? When the snow fell, people did not go there. Because you want to be in Pechersky in the district, because the Pecher district court is the very rotten court of Ukraine, and you want to address yourself as a rotten structure, in the very rotten court, instead of going to the Shevchenkov court, which has already repeatedly ruled that you are doing political repression is absolutely groundless. And that's why you're sitting on this street pretending to be going to the Peace Lord. And the question to you is, how many times have you been called by Zelenski, Jermak, Smyrnov and Tatarov in the last week? Please let me know.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u70	Thank you for your assessment of the State Bureau of Investigation, its activities. As for the question. I would like to point out, Mr. Alexia, that the State Bureau of Investigation is an independent state law enforcement body that interacts with state institutions, including the Office of the President of Ukraine, with one of the deputies who coordinates and cooperates with other law enforcement agencies, including the State Bureau of Investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u71	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Vásak Gennady Anatoliyovich, MP "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u72	I give the word to the great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u73	The great Sergey Anatolyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u74	Sergey the Great, Lugansk. I thank you for the work of the DBR in Luhansk, which has led to the detection of stolen fuel and the falsification of DSF documents in Lugansk. But only after the statement by Alexander Sukhova, the national deputy, was submitted to the GDR about the DDSN inaction, the heads of the VCA in Luhansk during the fires that took place in July-June 2020. Mr. Psik, head of the DSS in Luhansk, claims that human victims and hundreds of destroyed buildings are a disgraceful page in history. So the question is, when will the D.B.I. in Luhansk present the suspicion of Mr. Psik, the head of the Lugansian Geida, the head of the S.A.S.A. Severodonetske Struku? But it is well known, according to TSC materials, that these individuals are the ones responsible for these fires and human sacrifices. So the question is, when exactly is the date, when will you do it? Thank you. Sergey the Great, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u75	Thank you for asking. I would like to report that these facts have not been investigated in the context of individual criminal conduct, and we will immediately organize this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u76	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kaptielov Roman Volodymyrovich. Excuse me? You've already taken the floor. I just got knocked out here. Okay. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich. I remember that you were, but somehow I got kicked off the list. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u77	The good questions are asked by Geo Leros. I'm handing the question to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u78	A word for the People's Deputy Geo Leros, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u79	Alexei Alexanderovich, I won't remind you that he represents your report, I think you've remembered. I want to hear from you the answer to the next question. As part of the criminal investigation of the collapse of the Wagnerian special operation, when will President Jermak Andry Borisovich of Ukraine be questioned by the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, who is responsible for the failure of this special operation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u80	Thank you for asking. But I would like to inform the community and you that the investigators of the State Bureau of Investigation are doing regular work, daily, hourly, with regard to this criminal conduct, including questioning of the individuals you have identified. So you don't have to manipulate the crime scene, the investigation is ongoing, and we're going to get the result in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u81	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kaptielov Roman Volodymyrovich, faction of the Political Party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u82	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u83	Please, Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u84	Mr. Acting Head of the State Bureau of Investigation, Director, I would like to say that it is very important to develop the structure of the State Bureau of Investigation to improve its effectiveness today. I have a question for you. Please tell me, what are the priorities that the Supreme Council, along with the profile committee today, could decide and help you to make the State Bureau of Investigation function fully with the new appropriate infrastructure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u85	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. I want to report that all the tasks before the State Bureau of Investigation are listed in article 1 of the DBR Act. We are grateful to the Committee on Law Enforcement; we have a lively discussion, daily. I'm not going to waste my time, and I want to thank the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u86	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovni, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u87	Please pass the word to Taras Ivanovich Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u88	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. President, we understand that the State Bureau of Investigation is an important law enforcement body that we finance from a government budget of 2.5 billion dollars. And it's obvious that all of Ukrainian society is waiting for the result of this important, independent law enforcement body. We see on the DBD's website that officials in Midan's affairs report to the public every month on how the Maydan case is being investigated. But at the same time, we see that this investigation actually stopped at a level of suspicion. Sir, when will the verdicts come, and when will the charges come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u90	Thank you. If you have listened carefully to my report, 26 indictments this year are being sent to the court in the Maydan case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u91	Thank you. Please give the National Deputy of Ukraine Pavelska Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u93	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u94	You never answered my question: When will Shufrich, Kuzmin and other representatives of the OPCW be held accountable for the alleged false report of the crime of the alleged theft of 100 billion dollars, or the dollars in which the President of the United States is also present? That's the first one. And the second. You're talking about Maidan's business. There is a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that sees the Dignity Revolution as a time-consuming event in Ukraine's history. Your papers say that the Dignity Revolution is a mass disturbance with force. So where's your dignity? Why do you contradict the decisions and decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in your documentation? And when are you finally going to attract those who killed and shot the rangers for the crimes against Maidan? Right now, you're only doing Tanya Blackwall, the playground, and in general, you're discrediting any national-liberal struggle.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u95	As for those who are guilty, I will start with that. From December of last year onward, the court was granted permission to conduct a special trial that would allow the perpetrators to be brought to criminal liability. In general, permission has been obtained to conduct a special investigation into the deliberate killings of members of the protest, including: the Head of the Security Service, the Minister of Interior and the Deputy Minister of Interior, the Minister of Defence, the First Deputy Head of the SAF, the Commander of the internal forces, the Head of the capital militia, and others. Work in this direction is going on. In view of the fact that the individuals mentioned were not in Ukraine, we had no legal basis for conducting an investigation. During December 2020 – March 2021 we moved away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u96	Thank you, Alex Alexanderovich. The report is complete. The chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Denis Anatoliyovich Monastirski is invited to speak for the report. Please, Denise Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, let me begin with our heated discussion of the DBR and the assignment to speak, however, of the appointment of the State Bureau of Investigation. This body was created in 2015 in this room also by voting, and the appointment of the State Bureau of Investigation was to break this link: the body conducting the investigation (and so far it was the Attorney General's Office), the prosecutor's office, and the body overseeing the investigation – the same Attorney General's Office, the same prosecutor's office. This was the basic philosophy of the creation of this body. The creation that happens without exaggeration with great powers is difficult because now it can be said that the history of this body is five years old. Equally or about 5 years ago, in February 2016, the Cabinet of Ministers established the State Bureau of Investigation. But apart from the paper on which it was made and actually voted, nothing was done. In fact, it was the D.B.I. that started working just two years ago, at the end of the 18th year. So in fact, today we are going to examine the first public personal report of the DBR of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I think it's a very good start to the tradition that every year the DBR's personal report has to be made, because there are up to 1,000, 600 employees all over Ukraine who have been asked very big questions and responsibilities. In terms of the specificity of the report, I would like to point out that, according to the State Bureau of Investigation Act, the report is being previously examined by the Board of Public Controls of the DBR. And at the end of this year, for the first time, the Civil Control Board, which reviewed the DBR report, was created, and public control of this report has already taken place. The D.E.R.B.C. has positively endorsed the report of the State Bureau of Investigation. Of course, you and I have to remember that a year ago, just over a year ago, there was a relaunch of the D.B.I., both in terms of legal status and leadership. And in 2020 -- actually this was the year of the establishment, the establishment of the DBR -- was conducted, as far as I know, about one and a half thousand vacancies. And yet, according to the report presented today, there were good results from the D.B.I.'s work. I mean, the investigations that they were. Of course, we all remember the resonant moment when it was decided to move investigators from the Attorney General’s Office who investigated the Maydan case to the D.B.I. We were all concerned that these conducts would not be lost, so that they would not lose sight of the pace of their investigation. Today we've heard -- and this is a very important fact -- that this unit, a special unit at the State Bureau of Investigation, was created to investigate the management data. And despite all the staff perturbations that have been going on over the past year, there are still significant successes in the Maydan business. I am speaking of 23 indictments against 28 persons who have been sent to court. And if you and I are going to vote on a law that is really crucial in this matter, that is to say, the purpose that the Attorney-General has stated behind this rostrum, which he has confirmed, in fact, and the acting Director of the D.B.I., that it is realistic to investigate the Maydan case by the end of this year, that it will be real. Let's hope that's true. And we certainly control that as soon as it happens. I can also say that the Internal Control Authority finally worked, which began to draw on the responsibilities of the D.B.I. workers themselves. There are already four criminal conducts. In fact, this means that the mechanism of such internal control also works. Of course, we understand that different law enforcement agencies are competing. As a rule, I would like to see healthy competition. And this also clearly deters law enforcement authorities from the abuses that are taking place. An important point and one of the aims of the creation of the State Bureau of Investigation was to resist torture. Here's article 127 of the Criminal Code, if you look at statistics, it always had one indicator at the end of the year: zero, zero torture. In fact, the creation of a separate body — the Bureau of Investigation, the State Bureau of Investigation — had to make a radical change in this situation. Has it been changed now? Absolutely not, not changed. But today we see specific criminal conduct against law enforcement officials in the matter of torture. And these are the first items that I hope will turn into serious methodical work, and yet the D.B.I. manager will have to get a proper evaluation. In that context, I want to mention the case of both Pavlovrada and Cagarlik, who have invaded the whole country. But unlike the previous years, I mean 3, 4, 5 years before these cases are in court today. And this is saying that it's an effective way of looking at guidance data. As for the performance of the DBR, as head of the law enforcement committee in this case, I can say that the work is absolutely positive and constructive. About the frame set. Of course, this is one of the main problems. One and a half thousand, a thousand six hundred D.B.I. coworkers in the state. As of January 1, 2020, 65 percent of the workers were formed. But as we set out on the committee yesterday, the contests are about to end, and by March 15, this year, the DBR will be formed by 81 percent, and the main ingredient is the DBR operatives, which is that they will be able to finally gain independence, and gain independence from the Ukrainian Security Service in particular. This, in the context of Security Service reform, has a key issue. So the independent, self-sufficient organs, the operational organs and the DBD units will of course talk about the fact that, this year, the demand for all DBD operations can and should be maximum, because the time for personnel overload is over. Of course, we have one big, big debt left. Regrettably, only the responsibility of the Director of the DBR is reported from this rostrum today. I very much hope that the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation will be elected this year, who will be personally responsible for everything that happens in the DBR, because, of course, no matter how harshly we treat the report of today's executive responsibility, Alex Suhachev, but he still serves as Director of the DBR and represents this institution for the time being. It is definitely positive that the Council of Public Controls, which has been described for two years, has been established for all two years of the existence of the State Bureau of Investigation. And even now, a disciplinary commission has been launched, without which DBR employees could not be held accountable. It was a disgrace, any question, any conduct on the D.B.I. officials themselves could not be considered because the disciplinary commission did not work. Today you could say that it's finally created, and it's a big, big plus. Despite these positive points, however, there is a great deal that needs improvement. I've already mentioned the cadre's question. Of course, there's got to be 100 percent of the DBD's full personnel, only then can we say that, yes, this body works fully, under normal conditions, normally secure. Unfortunately, I have to say that in many areas of Ukraine, the D.B.I.'s premises are completely out of tune for investigators, operatives. And that is what I am asking especially to do the responsibility of the Director of the DBD, that the budget provides both opportunities and opportunities to create and perform repairs. This year’s request that this material issue be closed completely and that we never return to it. The question of interaction with the public is also one of the issues that needs to be clearly improved, because the questions that have been raised today by the people's deputies, the questions that come from the public organizations and in our appeals to the committee, they need to be carefully worked out. So I'd like you to pay attention, and in the plan of improperly concealing their documents, assigning the "DSK" griffin, and sometimes even on the committee's requests, they weren't fully available, as required. And I'm also asking you to pay attention, we're creating a new body right now -- the Bureau of Economic Security, and that's where criminal analysis is supposed to come first. You have to be here before, of course, because you're also on the verge of working and resisting organized crime. These are also the SOC and IoC methods for countering terrorism to be used in the work of the DBR. In general, the committee appreciated the work and offered to accept the D.B.I. report to the public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u98	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to performances from MP factions and groups. That's why I'm asking you to sign up. This takes 21 minutes according to the Rules. Please sign up. The word is given to national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u99	Thank you, Your Honor. After listening to the report, you know, I was inspired by something, and I mentioned a quote from an outstanding Ukrainian satirist, Michael Zvetsky: "Unfortunately, we never heard the Chief of Transportation." Because we listened to the report of the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, but we did not hear the Director’s report, as provided for by the DBR Act. In fact, this is an indicator of the work of this body, which is still under the leadership of its responsibilities. This is totally wrong and unacceptable. There was much talk about the purpose of establishing the State Bureau of Investigation. When the State Bureau of Investigation was set up, we created the Ukrainian FBI. Did the FBI become a member of the FBI in two years? Obviously, it didn't. Obviously, it didn't. Because in fact, the State Bureau of Investigation's performance rates are not just the figures we've seen on our screens today, they're real indicators of the effective work of the State Bureau of Investigation. They're supposed to be less corruption, less crime, less delinquency, which should be investigated by investigators and investigators of the State Bureau of Investigation. Sadly, though, this does not happen. And remember what the relationship was when the First Director of the DBD7 was elected at a so-called independent competition involving international experts, and they said it was all a panacea, and that would be great, and that would be good, and it would work for the DBD. And today, mostly critical issues, what's fair, critical assessments, what's fair, critical remarks about activity. Yeah, maybe let's just say to ourselves honestly and justly that the time of international experts is past, we need to look for honest, decent investigators in Ukraine, we need to look for honest, decent members of commissions in Ukraine, we need to look for Ukrainian people who are interested in ensuring that the law enforcement system is honest, independent, efficient and just? Let's say that's the password "let's release all the old ones, get all the new ones," it doesn't work anymore. Let's say that the destruction of the law enforcement system and the creation of (in paws) on its ruins of new organs is all a workable story, a completely unworkable story. And that's why we have the same crime situation as we do now. That is why we today have such a critical attitude toward the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation. But the next report I'd like to hear from the D.B.I. Director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u100	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u101	Hand it over to the stalemate.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u102	Alexander Ustinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, we just heard a very pompous report from the Director of the DBR, who also presented it to us on a law enforcement committee yesterday. We're told that they're running out of rooms right now, they're running out of equipment, they're running out of people to come and work. You know how much initial salary in the D.B.I. If you're a lieutenant there? From 40,000, and that's without all the allowances, bonuses, etc. Real pay is 50-60 and above, that's when you're just crossing the threshold. That's one and a half times higher than the national deputy. And we're told that they don't have enough funding, that they don't have enough. You know what the D.B.I.'s most investigating? I asked the Director of the Law Enforcement Committee yesterday. 40 percent of all suspected cases are self-inflicted. So we have all these lieutenants, all these operatives, all these investigators investigating how the boys voluntarily leave the military to go buy Coke. Excuse me, do we need a law enforcement agency, such a huge, huge machine with huge wages that investigates a wolf? The body that's supposed to investigate corruption, which is supposed to investigate government officials, is now investigating the fact that the boys are going to buy Coke. The other one. You know, we should present the most resonant cases of the State Bureau of Investigation yesterday. The first issue was that 100,000 dollars of bribes were required. When I asked, and why did they break the case and it's not NABU, you know what they told me? That it wasn't $100,000, and $10,000 was actually a bribe. It turns out that the first resonant thing is gone. And the second, which was in the report where the $80,000 bribe was, is being investigated by the National Police. So we have the most top, resonant D.B.I. cases being investigated by others, or in fact, there were ten times the amount of bribes. Next. If you read the State Bureau of Investigation report, I'm not kidding right now, you know what they say in the report? What they're doing is they've got 10,000 Facebook subscribers. It's not a joke, open up a report, it's an achievement of the State Bureau of Investigation. Can you imagine the FBI boasting in front of the people's deputies and the public that they're still a plus ten thousand subscribers on Facebook? I'm ashamed, frankly, when I read this report, and when I understood when the biggest machine was being created, which was going to investigate all the non-investigative crimes, investigate all the officials, all the civil servants, they're now investigating the boys' will. You know, I only have one conclusion on this report. Excuse me, but I'll say in the original language, "if there's no case, it won't save the Piar Section." So you can write a lot of nice reports right now, but we need real things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u104	The word is given to the national deputy Shahov, the MP's group "Trust."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u105	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". I demand that this be taken into account as a request from all the national MPs: Lukasheva, Shahova, Majestic, Sukhova -- for the Luhansk region. Not once, my dear fellows, I have come out of this rostrum, and, thank God, we are finally heard! Ruslan Gorbenko rightly said that criminal conduct had already been violated, but not all of them. 120 criminal conducts were violated against officials headed for the D.B.I., then sent by the D.B.I. to the Luhansk Region Police Department, in Sevierodoneck, Lysichansk, also to the place to "Haidei", i.e. Hayday, the head of the Lugani Military and Civil Administration, directing them and telling them what to do. Today, one human king has come to the entire Lugansk area, which is run by all the powerful structures: the B.S.A., the D.A., the law enforcement agencies, the forests, and so on, all departments. Notice, break and give an answer here, in the hall, give the god who made the D.B.I. In the woods today, literally, reports of our volunteers are coming today, which is being done: by cars, by coaches of the forest, by greens, instead of burning. Some 50,000 acres [50,000 ha] of forest burned, making 22 billion dollars today worth of damage to the area. Ecological, technological disaster. How long is this going to take? I'm not just saying that my parents are buried in the Luhansk region or the grandfathers who shed blood for it. I speak for all the people of Donbas. Today, note the head of the Pávásnian Military and Civil Administration, appointed by Hayday. Children’s Gardens, an immoral, depressed zone today, and there they rob millions of dollars. 465 million dollars were stolen in the city of Severodonetsk Struk, head of the military and civil administration. Investigating. 260 million dollars were stolen by the head of the military-civil administration of the Lysican City Council, and the mining kindergarten is closed to 100 children. People are practicing today, talking to officials. What's going on in the area, please? Billions are stolen on the roads. Investigate the environmental fund — 360 million dollars, for which Ruslan Gorbenko spoke — is also a national MP from Lugansk, who allegedly planted forests and no one is investigating the money they stole today. There's no woods, there's no money - all the way to one place! There's no water, there's no agriculture, there's no infrastructure completely destroyed, and we don't give a shit. Note and respond immediately to 120 criminal incidents in the Luhansk region. How long can we rehearse from this rostrum? Finally.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u106	The word is given to the National Deputy of Bakumov, Alexander Sergiyyovich, the faction of the Political Party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u107	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Fellows, Honourable Ukrainian People! We should not forget that the State Bureau of Investigation is a law enforcement body whose principles of action are the rule of law, legality and impartiality. Today, there have been many political allegations and accusations in this room that the State Bureau of Investigation, its structural units have failed to deal with their tasks, are wrongly investigating certain criminal conduct, or are obliged to present any suspicion there. But it's all destructive and wrong, with such slogans to disperse in Parliament. I propose that we evaluate something else: Is the State Bureau of Investigation capable of carrying out their functions and responsibilities under these conditions as an institution, and do we accept this account in their work or do we not accept it? I am sure and ready to say that in two years of the work of the State Bureau of Investigation, this state institution took place. We have a lot of questions about how it works, but it happened. We are grateful to all the committees that the State Bureau of Investigation is maintaining constant communication with us. We support them in introducing new legislative novels that simplify and make their work more effective. Today there is a question of the head of the State Bureau of Investigation, and as a majority of us support the call of colleagues that the next report is due to take place and talk, to be announced by the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation. We can ask questions about expansion in the future, because the name of the State Bureau of Investigation provokes it to investigate all relevant crimes, and today it is limited to crimes committed by persons authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government. I'm sure you and I will be able to further improve the work of the State Bureau of Investigation and make it more effective. Thank you for working for all the employees of the State Bureau of Investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the word is "Alexia Alexiyovich Hotcharenko", the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u109	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, I had the opportunity to ask the question of the duty, and I asked the simple question: How many times did Zelenski, Jermak, Smyrnov, Tatarov call him? And the officer in charge confirmed that he was in contact with the deputy head of the President’s Office, who controls the law enforcement authorities. By the way, I had another question, I passed it on to Geo Leros, so I want to make a negative mention of Geo Leros that he didn't ask hard enough questions. So, I want to tell you, Mr. Suhachev, you have to work independently, not in coordination with the President's Office. Because what you told us, you confessed to the whole country who actually runs the D.B.I. That's the kind of logic you could not have come here. We could have sent Tatarov's smartphone here for the interview, and we could put him on the stand by the microphone. Greensky told us we're going to have a smart phone trial, so we're going to have a smart phone with the D.B.I. We have a court-martial in Smyrnov's smartphone, the D.B.I. in Tatar's smartphone. That's how we live, that's how we work. And that's why we have these results. I want to say that the State Bureau of Investigation has turned into a "State Bureau of Persecution" of political opposition to active power. Here it is, reality, and you can't argue with it. We wanted to create the Ukrainian FBI, and we created the Ukrainian KGB, which is working again on the treatments of the KGB. And this is a reality that is totally unacceptable. I'd like to address you, Mr. Suhachev. You're an officer, you've worked at the B.S.A., you've served at the B.S.A., you've been at the D.S.A., you've been at the D.S.A., you've been at the D.S.A., you've been at the D.S.A. How do you look your colleagues in the eye today when you've "dried" completely "vagners" a matter that your colleagues have prepared -- security officers, the General Intelligence Directorate? They're angry, and no one's investigating it, and you're not investigating it. When Burba, the head of the Mino Defense Intelligence Department, is taken away from cover and guard — why? So Russian security forces can reach him? How do you feel about that? And how do you look your colleagues in the eye that you're not investigating this? Dear friends, it's a disaster -- what's happening here is the complete degradation of extremely important institutions, the use of them as means of political influence and pressure and manual management by the President's Office. So, Vladimir Zelensky, you don't have to send anyone here. Come here alone and be responsible for your D.B.I., for your Attorney General's office, which all of you law enforcement agencies have besieged your friends. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Let me explain. In accordance with part four of article 51 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I quote: "The People's Deputy or a representative of the MP's faction, the MP's group, where offensive words have been addressed, may contact the chairman of the plenary meeting requiring a word for a replication." Again, in those words that were there, your insults, hurtful words, not even insults, hurtful words. Otherwise, I'm going to have to go to the regulatory committee to bring Mr. Potterenck's responsibility for using offensive words. So, dear fellows, I'm moving on. I give my word. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's stop doing what's called abuse all over the world and move on to the normal work of the Supreme Council. I quoted you from the Rules. I give the floor to the national deputy of Slavic Antonini Kerimovni, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Mother Grigori Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u112	Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, we can argue for a long time, but we need to understand the common thing: that we depend on 70 percent of the work of any law enforcement agency. In fact, five years is a small internship, but it's important to remember each and every one of us. When all the green buttons were pressed in this room just over a year ago and the work of the State Bureau of Investigation was improved, did someone think about this report or the work of the law enforcement agency? The answer is no. Why not? Notice, for the first time in history, the law removes managers and deputies from office. Is that right? No, it's not true, but you gave the President's Office, the President's quota and trust, and you gave him two months' time to do the job. Two months have passed, and the commission to select the head of the State Bureau of Investigation has not yet started. You can talk about all of the absolutely things, but if you're out of office by law, by your vote, you need to get involved in the process. The reason is very simple: an answer from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that there are no international experts who can participate in this commission. Is this a mistreatment of more than a year by international partners? Absolute abuse. At present, there is a bill in place to oblige the Cabinet to appoint three representatives to run the commission and work on the selection of the director. Then you have to ask: Have you so improved the work of the State Bureau of Investigation that you have forgotten the history of its creation? The State Bureau of Investigation was actually created five years ago, and the first point, and the first unit, the investigation unit, was created. But more than a year of blocking the creation of operational workers. It was just blocked and the set started in a year and a half. Not yet. From an expert institution that should be appointed to conduct research, note the full, objective investigation of events. He's gone, he doesn't exist. You can talk about dry numbers, but you have to start with yourself. We need to include legislative initiatives, take an active role in the leadership's election, and then ask questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u114	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Lubinec Dmitry Valeriyovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u115	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine, Honourable Alexei Alexandrovich! I'm a member of the MP's Party for the Future as a representative of Parliament. It has been an honor to draw such a small conclusion to today’s report. Alexei Alexanderovich, I ask you very much, please listen to me as the last speaker from Parliament, and the honourable national deputies, so that they do not hesitate to listen to the head of the D.B.I. What the national MPs say. There's a positive, of course, because I want to remind you that this is the first D.B.I. to come to Parliament and report. Whatever our attitude, we did not come and report. Next. I want all of us to understand that the previous Parliament voted and created the DBR just as an organ that must first fight corruption. All crimes not related to the NAB should be investigated automatically by the DBD. And first of all, society expects that there will be results in the form that specific corruptioners will receive prison terms. We're separate as majors working with people, and we're drawing your attention, because society now has confidence, including in your body and in you. But if there are no concrete results, this trust will be lost. Next. These are certainly the workers that work for you. So, along with the creation of an organ. I'm going to ask Alex Alexanderovich to listen to me, and I'm going to ask the distinguished national MPs not to interfere with listening to the D.B.I. Manager. Your salary in the D.B.I. is much higher than in other law enforcement departments. That allows you to get the best. But for the time being, 65 percent of the warehouse is an extremely low rate. And we expect that in the coming months you, as a manager, will do everything to have the entire structural unit recruited, created conditions for them to work, and they actually started showing results. Actually, that's what the colleagues have already said, thank you for coming to us. Still, we expect that in a year, this practice continues positively, but here it should be reported by the full-fledged director of the FBI, who does not perform duties with limited yet. and limited powers, and a limited state, but a full-fledged director should be responsible and accountable to the national deputies. So thank you for coming today. We thank you for the report. There's work to do. But on the other hand, I would like to say to the people's deputies: the fight against corruption is both the D.B.I. and the parliament together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the report of the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation has been completed. Let us thank the performer for his presence. Ladies and gentlemen, we have five minutes until recess. We have several options for events. First, we're going to go into the next question and maybe we're going to continue for 15 minutes to finish it. The second option is we can vote on some minor questions that are to be asked in these five minutes. What do you say? So we're going to start a break in time, but we're going to vote now. I ask you to give the floor to Sergio Vitaliovich Babak, he has a question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u117	Dear Chairman, Your Honor, we ask you to raise Bill 3759 in order of the day. The committee recommended that he be sent for work. We agree with all factions that it will pass now without discussion, and we will be able to free the field for the following bills that resolve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, is there no objection to raising 3759 and sending him to work immediately? Dear colleagues, no, yes, questions? Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, then I immediately put to the vote the conclusions of the committee to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending the Law on Education on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Violations of Academic Integrity, Bill 3759. I want to remind you of our vote: it happens by pressing the sensor button and then your choice of voting. Are you ready to vote? Ready. Please support and vote. [[11:56:22]] For 277 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we still have a few questions about renaming the locations. Oh, no? Dear colleagues, there are some drafts still coming up. Processing. Dear colleagues, I call the bills that are for work, you say whether you're ready to accept them and move on. Bill 3033a, 3033a-1. Are you ready to go to work? Name: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on additional guarantees of the rights of teachers and academic and pedagogical workers during quarantine or restrictive measures related to the spread of coronary disease. You don't want to. Okay. We voted on the next bill. The following bills are 4303, 4303-1, 4303-2 on promoting the digital economy of Ukraine. They also go back to the first. We can vote on that, can't we? Ladies and gentlemen, on this issue, I immediately put to the vote the conclusions of the committee: to refer to the committee for a re-reading of Bill 4303 on the promotion of the digital economy in Ukraine. Ready to vote? I'll remind you again, through the sensor button. Please support and vote. [[11:58:31]] For 288 Decision taken. And the last bill standing. Return the subject of the right of legislative initiative to draft Bill 4169: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act. Is there no objection? You don't want to? We are sending his subject of the right of legislative initiative to work on the Council. Okay? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's decision to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act (project registration number 4169). Please support and vote. [[11:59:35]] For 280 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there's a break at 12:30. But I'm asking you to be in the hall at 12:30, because we're going to consider important bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u119	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I'll ask you to take your seats. We'll continue our work. Please invite all the national deputies into the hall. So, honourable national deputies, I ask everyone to take their seats, to put on protective masks. Remember, all of us are looking at us because we work in open - minded mode, and I ask you to be responsible for this. I will also ask the media to follow the masquerade regime. Thank you very much. Honourable National Deputies, therefore, are under consideration by the bill on the calculation of time in Ukraine (registration number 4201, 4201-1). The authors of the legislative initiative request that the bill be considered in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. I'm reminding you that we're working together with a sensor button. Ready to vote? So I'm looking at the bill with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:36:46]] For-187 Thank you. For 187 national deputies. Thus, the national deputy of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u120	Good day, noble fellows, a bill that is presented to your mind, its writing was justified by several basic reasons. The first reason is that, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the issue relating to the units of time and the calculation of time is the subject of the laws of Ukraine, and so far it is governed by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is wrong. The second reason is that according to all the research conducted in and outside Ukraine, the seasonal translation of clock arrows has a negative impact on human health, which according to article 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine is a higher social value. And so the main idea after that is to cancel the seasonal movement of clocks. The third argument that was cited in the drafting of this law is a denial of myth, as if the bill were meant not to follow any economy. In my address to all the institutes, it was confirmed to all the ministries that no calculations were made that would allow and give reason to say that this would lead to an economy, either in Ukraine or outside it. The fourth argument that has been the subject of this law is that the relevant decision has been taken by the European Parliament: since 2021 a decision has been made that the idea of the seasonal transfer of the clock will be cancelled. Such a decision has been taken on the basis of the results of online voting in the EU. Besides, I want to give you another argument that we need to establish throughout Ukraine, including temporarily occupied territories, the only time in Kiev. Because you know that the invader began by setting Moscow time in temporarily occupied areas. The main ideology of this bill is to extend Ukraine's natural winter time plus two, which corresponds to the explanatory time, and to give up the further translation of the clocks, because this contradicts the whole range of issues related to human life and health. So, dear fellows, I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u121	Thank you. The speaker is invited to speak with an alternative bill by the National MP of Ukraine Soboljev Sergey Vladislavovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, what are these bills combined into, and what are they different from? Yes, indeed, the Cabinet of Ministers has no right to regulate this, because according to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine this should be regulated by Parliament. It's all right here. And here we go. What's Kyiv time? Well, it was clear when there was a Moscow time when there was a predominant time -- it was a Kiev time. We don't have time zones, we have only Ukrainian time, and that's what our bill defines. It's not Kyiv, it's not Lviv, it's not Donetsk, it's Ukrainian. And this is the practice of all countries where there is a single time zone. The second is how time is calculated. Our bill clearly states that there is a worldwide coordinated time plus 2 hours. And this bill determines how time works. Unfortunately, there is no such thing in the previous bill. The third difference that is. We signed with you the Agreement with the European Union, where we predicted that we were synchronizing all the changes that were going on. So, the European Union Directive defines the 21st year as a transitional year, and that's exactly what our bill establishes as a transitional year. That would mean that we're also giving up the transition to summer or winter time, but we're starting to work from the fall of the 21st year. So it's going to be Ukrainian time -- it's 2 hours plus global time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u123	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. A co-reporter from the committee head of the Committee on Economic Development, Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyyovich, is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u124	Thank you. I would like to report first of all that the question of metrology, standardization and so on is a question that relates to the accountability of our economic committee. I would like to point out that on February 17th, 21st, the Committee reviewed draft laws 4201 and 4201-1 (alternative). By Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich and Sobolev, Yvchenka (this is an alternative). I would like to pay attention to key positions and what is currently happening in the countries of the European Union. Today, in fact, in March months and for the next few months, the countries of the European Union will move on for a single period, and they will no longer move on. They won't have this difference in summer, winter time. So the legislative initiative of MPs, it's logical, it's appropriate, at least from that point of view, that we're essentially moving forward with time. There are differences and observations that have been made by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Legal Authority. The Ministry of Economic Development and Trade points out that it is necessary to await the transition of the countries of the European Union, but the European Union already has an appropriate decision and a transition mandate. So basically, all the formal requirements are met. With regard to the Committee's decision, the panel decided to introduce Bills 4201 and 4201-1 for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to recommend, on the basis of the first reading, Bill 4201 to accept as a basis and Bill 4201-1 to reject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u125	Thank you, Your Honor, the head of the subcommittee. Is there a problem and a question for discussion? Is it? Yes. I see they want to talk. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please. Yes, please welcome Mr. Andrey Mihajlovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u126	Thank you. A very important bill. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u127	Thank you. That's very good. Which, indeed, you did not specify, but we will guess. Paul the Bakunite is invited to the floor. The trust group, please. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u128	Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Clearly, in a country that is at war in the east with an aggressor, in a country that is struggling with the coronavirus, in a country that has a major gap in judicial reform, the most important thing to do is to move the clocks. Of course, this bill is absolutely, as it were, normal. However, we have more important tasks in our country than just transferring watches. We can adopt this bill as a basis for further development. However, I think it's better than shifting clocks to local self-government, I mean to increase their tax base so that local self-government can make education, culture, or road. We can at least take a step to complete decentralization. And by doing that, we're really going to translate the development clocks of our communities. As for the clocks in the country, I don't think this bill is the main one, it's not in time. And I'm calling on the Supreme Council leadership to put more important bills into our work plan than they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u129	Thank you. I think it's the faction of the majority that will hear your call to put more pressing issues into the agenda. The word is "Vadim Ivchenko", the "Fatherland" faction, please. Ivan Krulko? Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u130	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will support the bill of our colleague Sergio Soboljeva (4201-1). What is the difference between two bills? It's like an innocent bill cutting through the implementation of the European Union resolution: we're not going to go to summer or winter. It's all good, but there's one "but" in every case. If this 4201 bill is adopted, then if we don't go through summer time, we're going to have one time with Moscow. If it's 4201, then we're going to follow the European directive in full, we're going to do it and we're going to be closer to the European Union, not Moscow, that's the difference. So when it comes to such innocent and seemingly correct bills, it is necessary to look at them, and what is the point. So the position of the Fatherland faction is that we have to follow the European Union directive clearly, and if we are going to go through this directive already, and the 21st year is just a transitional year, when all countries are bringing their internal legislation into the European Union directive, it is better that Ukraine no longer go into winter time and stay in that time zone. And we, as Ukraine, have one time zone, we don't have a Kyiv, Uzgorod, or Lugansk time zone, we have a Ukrainian time zone, and we should be completely closer to the European Union, where you and I have decided to integrate ourselves in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. The slogan must be "Get away from Moscow!"not "closer to Moscow." Here's the pro-Ukrainian government position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u131	Thank you. This is Taras Batenko, Party for the Future. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u132	Honorable Presidium, dear friends, reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich as initiator of the bill, you know when the motto of "Get away from Moscow!", then let's continue -- "get out of Moscow time!" And the only alternative to Moscow's time is the Kiev time, the time of the Kiev Russia. So it's definitely not a four-word bill, and it's definitely a bill that applies to people. I'd say more, it applies to everyone who has. Every living thing that has a biological clock. Obviously, we are taking this issue seriously because the time issue in history has always sparked much debate, starting with the introduction of the Gregorian calendar in 1582, as the debate stretched out into the century and ended only in the early 20th century. And apparently, when World War I began to translate the clocks, it also sparked much discussion. Ukraine, the Ukrainian RSR has only been using summer and winter time since 81st. The questionable electricity economy, it showed a power economy of only 1 percent in the '80s. This is more of a medical issue now, when medical people are alarmed. Because the transition from summer to winter has been painful for most people, since a biological clock cannot instantly switch. And medical researchers have noted an increase in the number of rapid calls to those suffering from heart disease and so forth. So, my friends, I think we can discuss time, but the alternative to Moscow time, New York time can only be Kiev time throughout Ukraine. And there's no question of regional times, what we've carefully analyzed. The issue of working time can always be regulated by using, correcting in different parts of Ukraine one enterprise or another. Our parliamentary group "For the Future" will definitely support "for" this issue with further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u133	Thank you. Stepan of Cuba, the "European Solidarity" faction, is still involved in the heated debate. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u134	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! However, I would like to emphasize the following. First, that "European Solidarity" will support Bill 4201 on the cancellation of summer time. I would like to thank both Sergei Soboljeva and Ruslan Stefanchuk, because the end of summer time affects the health of people, especially children and older ones. Secondly, I fully agree with the idea that the cancellation of summer time in Ukraine should take place as closely as possible and with the corresponding changes in the EU territory to be carried out by April 1. And then we're going to define in the same way between the first and the second readings. There's clearly no "Moscow time" or anything. Because Bill 4201, and supported by the committee meeting, clearly provides for all the right things. And the third aspect. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, Bill 4201 provides the definition of completely compatible terms with the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u135	Thank you. Tzabal Volodymir from the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u136	Tzabal Volodymir, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, surely, the Voice faction supports both bills. The transition to summertime is anachronism that took place 110 years ago when people used candles and lighting was the main cost of electricity. So this anachronism has to be eliminated. Now, in today’s world, there is a negative impact on human health on this transition, such as an 8 - percent increase in strokes from transition. This negative influence is much worse than a potential economy. That's why we're calling for this bill to be supported. Of course, the second bill of the "Paternity" faction has its benefits. This is, for example, synchronization with Europe and a link to specific norms, but these things can be corrected for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u137	Thank you. Who else wants motive? I see, Alexander Koltunovich. Please, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to add a few important points. First. First of all, we need to understand that in the European Union, as was its central European time zone, it will remain there. The Russian Federation also refused -- these are also our neighbors -- and they refused to go into summer and winter time. They have as much time as they have, and they will have it. The point is that we're actually catching up at a different pace, in principle, with all our neighbors, and we're canceling this option for winter and summer time. But I would like to point out that these bills contain a number of disagreements that would have to be cleared between the first and second readings, so that, for example, we don't go through the last Sunday of March and add up again plus a year in time. So, in principle, with the amendments, it's going to go through quickly. That's the first one. And secondly, I'd like to agree with my colleagues on priority. Because if you look at all the supporting documents, the socio-economic plus from the bills -- it's zero, it doesn't affect the budget, it doesn't affect the finances. That's why we want to support economic laws that affect the economy and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u139	Thank you. Everyone has said this question, we can go to the vote. Please take your seats. So the decision of the profiling committee was to adopt the 4201 bill as a basis. Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? Our colleagues are coming in. Please take your seats, I beg you. Thus, Bill 4201 — Draft Law on Time Calculation in Ukraine — is to be adopted as a basis. Please vote. [[12:56:12]] For 277 For 277 national deputies. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee also requests that, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, a vote be taken on the proposal to cut the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments to the preparation for the second reading of Bill 4201. Please vote. It's a shortcut twice, you know, the feeds to get to the committee. [[12:56:54]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Ruslan Alexiyovich, will you continue?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u140	Thank you, Your Honor, for your support. Let's move on. The next question is the re-reading of Bill 3711-d: a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and certain Ukrainian laws on the reinstatement of the work of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine (a completed draft with the submission of a committee of 02.02.2021). Before inviting the reporter, I'd like to ask that we agree to consider this project with a reduced procedure. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:57:54]] For 222 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich. And since it's both from the committee and from the authors, give me four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, today we are considering a very important bill concerning the restoration of the work of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy considered at its meeting on 27 January 2021 a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges and certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of the Supreme Court and the judiciary, which was co-operated with the Committee in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 5 November 2020. The bill has been developed with the aim of bringing Ukraine's legislation into line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of February 18 and March 11, 2020. In addition, the work took into account the comments and proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the European Commission for Democracy through Law (the Venice Commission), in its conclusions of 9 October 2020, as well as the joint recommendations made by USAID "New Justice" and the EU project "Right-Justice". The bill provides for amendments to the laws on the judiciary and the status of judges, to the Supreme Council of Justice, and to the following questions. The procedure for the formation of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges is set out, inter alia, to include three persons from the number of judges or judges in the resignation proposed by the Council of Judges of Ukraine and three persons proposed by the Council of Prosecutors, the Council of Lawyers, the National Academy of Legal Sciences of Ukraine. At the same time, in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, the first composition of a competition commission on integrity issues is proposed, which will form a new composition of the CCS and work over the course of the year, to form from three persons from the number of judges or judges in the resignation proposed by the Council of Judges of Ukraine, and from three persons from international experts proposed by international and foreign organizations with whom Ukraine cooperates in the area of prevention and anti-corruption in accordance with Ukraine's international treaties. It is established that the CCW consists of 16 members who are appointed by the result of a four-year competition. There are clear deadlines for the submission of proposals for candidates to a competitive commission, and arrangements are laid down for the conduct of the competition and for the appointment of a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine. It is also proposed to exclude a number of provisions of Law 193 that are recognized by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in such a way that they conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, the subject of the bill was somewhat narrowed down, and questions relating to the Supreme Court of Ukraine were put into a separate bill on the recommendation of the Venice Commission. This bill was discussed at many committee meetings, and was supported by the Council of Judges of Ukraine, by the Supreme Court, by the Supreme Council of Justice with observations, by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration with observations. The bill was also discussed with experts from the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission. Our dialogue continues with international organizations that provide legal assistance to Ukraine. The bill will be supplemented by a second reading committee in an open dialogue with representatives of parliamentary factions and groups with the participation of representatives of the judiciary, professional public and international organizations and experts. Our goal is to create a new WCC at a transparent and open competition. The law provides that all interviews with candidates will be conducted in video mode. The new CDC is not just about selecting new judges that we lack, it's about completing competitive procedures with the courts of the first instance and the Supreme Court of Intellectual Property. This is also a continuation of the self - cleansing of the judiciary, for more than 2,000 judges are awaiting qualifications. The President of Ukraine and the faction of the political party "The Servant of the People" for fair and fair trial in Ukraine. And the adoption of this law is a necessary first step in this direction. Please support and accept this bill in a re-first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u142	Thank you, Andrey Evgenovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Then I'm going to ask you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the People's Deputy Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u143	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunets, the "Trust" MP. Clearly, during the last few months, we have a blocked assignment of judges, and it is important to take a step. I know that the committee has already taken this step a year ago, but as we know, it was the right decision of the Constitutional Court, and everything stands blocked. And even though the bill has many negative consequences, we still believe it needs to be taken as a basis, because the work of the CCW needs to be unlocked in order to start assigning judges and relaunching judicial reform in our country. Therefore, we suggest that the bill be voted on as a basis for its revision to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u144	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Hončarenko Alexiyyovich, the faction of "European Solidarity". Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u145	Dear Ukrainians, today's government is stealing from countries most expensive -- stealing time. And they've been working for two years, instead of continuing the systematic reform of the branch of power initiated by the Fifth President of Ukraine and our team. I would like to remind you that it is we who have initiated the reform of the Supreme Court and the establishment of an anti-corruption court with the help of the Commission of Virtue. You almost eliminated the Supreme Court in the area, trying to reduce the number of judges by increasing their workload and dependence on the Bank, which has received not only a negative response from society, experts, but also from the Venice Commission. In fact, you have eliminated the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, and what has this led to? Not complete courts, not access to the justice of a simple Ukrainian, loaded by the judges completely, and at the same time the pressure of Banking and the influence of the fearsome lawyers of Yanukovic. Today, when you've had a negative reaction to your actions by international experts, as a reform, you're creating a higher-skilled panel of judges, but a beef that will have no authority, and you want to make a political body -- the High Council of Justice -- so that you can also form a completely dependent branch of power. There's already 100 percent of Henprocuror, our D.B.I., we've heard this illusion of the report today, and now there's no impact on the court. You're creating an independent Constitutional Court. And that's why we want to say that, for a country, it's a system of reform of the judicial branch of power that has to be independent. We demand a real jury trial, not a fiction that works today. We demand that the Constitutional Court be formed with the help of international experts. And the key is to stop Bank's "phone law," the "phone law" of Janukovic's lawyers, who were promised to plant today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u146	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanishini Olga Anatolyevna, a faction of the political party. Jurchisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u147	I would like to begin by thanking tens of thousands of citizens who, last Tuesday, went out on the street last Saturday, not demanding personal justice, but justice for all. This was the case of Sternenko and Andrew Antonenko (Rifmaster), but justice was required. And justice can really be provided by judges like Judge Bytsuk, who's been through all the competition procedures with the independent WCC and ICC, and with the Public Council of International Experts, who at the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court is taking decisions on behalf of Judge Wolf every day to come and take responsibility. But the negative example is that of Judge Wolf, who controls the IDP, who controls the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges until it is actually launched. And now our task is not to create anything, you know, not to bring in a goat to get it out, not to create a VCC, which is just going to be called a "qualified commission of judges," and actually will be completely controlled by an unreformed RDP. And a colleague, the head of the profile committee, well, whatever he says. We didn't take into account the recommendations of the Venice Commission, because the Venice Commission has actually proposed not to give additional functions to the unreformed GDP proposed by this bill, which cannot be voted for. And for the last 30 seconds, I'm going to use it to go to the right judges. Colleagues, you have a March 9th reunion, March 9th under the unions, and there will be a lot of people who want justice. I very much ask you, fellow judge, to put down the personnel questions, to postpone the completion of the High Council of Justice and the unreformed CDC until there are normal rules. And you can't vote for this law -- it's another imitation, go back to the committee and work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u148	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich. National MP Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u149	Dear Ukrainians, for many colleagues in this room, this bill is about the High Council of Justice, about the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, about many definitions that unfortunately affect the judicial system and do not make it the way that you, your fellow Ukrainians, would be able to file, accuse the actions of the authorities and be sure that the court will take your side. This authority, unfortunately, thinks that this system can be changed like this -- "slices," "smartphone vessels," by some kind of call and mathematical reduction in the number of judges. When President Zelensky and his majority were put to the vote in October 19th, the cut of the Supreme Court members was double, from 200 to 100, they were clapped in their tents, and these front lines blushed with joy that tomorrow everything was changing. The experts told them not to do that. The judges told them not to do that. They were told by the 7G countries, whose ambassadors are constantly influencing the decision of this authority: don't do that. The Venice Commission tells them not to do that. But they're the slyest of all-- they took it and made it! And the Constitutional Court canceled this forecast in March next year. What have they done this year? Nothing. They offer the old Supreme Council of Justice, the council of justice that has not seen problems in the actions of Odyssey Judge Vuk, to decide who will be in our courts tomorrow. Our MPs will not support this infamous decision. And we're talking to all of our colleagues: don't go into propaganda. System.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, we'll have three more speeches of motive, but in order of order of order: Maslov, then Nestor Ivanovich, then Sergey Volodymyrovich. And let's go to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it was Maslov at first. All right, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u151	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Is there a question of justice in Ukraine? Absolutely. It's ripe and ripe, I'm sorry, it's already rotted. Therefore, we must now do everything we can to ensure that our citizens are able to obtain a just, just judgment of the court, whether it pleases the other party or not. This bill, which is now being proposed, will it contribute? No, it's not. This is another attempt to get the judges under control for the sake of power. Now we're saying no to this bill, hands off the judges. Indeed, we have to unite in order to create a just, independent court that protects people, not the power, the President, and others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u152	Thank you. The word is given to the people’s representative of Maslov. After that, Sergey Volodymyrovich. And, dear fellows, after that I invite the national deputies to the hall, we will vote. Maslov National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u153	Colleagues, out of 7,000 judges today, there are nearly 2,000 vacancies. What does this lead to? For example, the Kyiv District Court of Odessa, a judge in one hour, has to consider the case from the time of the indictment to the time of judgment. You all know it's not real. In my home district of Dnipropetrov, in the Czarican Court, there are no judges with authority at all. What's this bill about? This bill on the balance between the independence of judges, the requirement of the public for the participation of honest international experts -- we have taken this into account in the selection of the members of the Higher Qualifications Commission -- and the balance between the state sovereignty of ours. By voting, I will personally support this bill, and I urge you to do so. Because your local voters do not have effective access to justice today. This bill is only about restoring opportunities.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u154	The word is given to the national deputy Vlasenko, and then we go to the vote. People's deputies, take your seats. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u155	Thank you, sir. For two and a half years, the selection of judges has not been conducted, but this has only been for one reason: because the majority in the exclamation mode adopted a completely unconstitutional, idiotic law, which was apparently clearly and justifiably repealed by the Constitutional Court. So you created this problem, you created this problem, you made it stupid and unprofessional! For two and a half years, nothing has been done to solve this problem properly. This law is not about an honest and fair court, as the previous colleague has said, this law on the possibility of control over the selection of judges is an opportunity to control the functioning of the judicial system. This law does not meet either the requirements of the Venice Commission or the Constitutional Court’s decision or the conclusions of the GNEU, which have been devastatingly critical. And international experts. Isn't there six decent, decent people in Ukraine who could choose judges? But I'll give you a name: Viktor Ivanovich Šishkin, Mikola Ivanovich Kozubra, Viacheslav Vasilovich Jun, Ivan Petrovich Dombrovsky. They're Ukrainians, honest and decent.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving to a vote. I'll also, if you'll excuse me, remind you that you need to use the sensor button as well as the button that makes your choice to vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and certain Ukrainian laws on the reinstatement of the work of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, registration number 3711. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Dear colleagues, this bill 3711-d is based on the committee's decision. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[13:16:15.]] For 227 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill that we are considering is Bill 4225: draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the National Military Memorial Cemetery. Before considering this bill, I ask you to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Dear colleagues, please support and vote. Short-term procedure, colleagues. [[13:17:07]] For 233 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to the Deputy Minister for the Development of Communities and Areas of Hotany Natalya Volodymyrna. Please, Natalia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u157	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the establishment of the National Military Memorial Cemetery. With a view to implementing the requirements of the decree, appropriate legislative changes have been made, according to which the National Military Memorial Cemetery is an object of state ownership, is not subject to privatization and lease. The issue of land removal under this cemetery is addressed in accordance with Ukraine’s Land Code. Construction is done at the expense of the state budget. The contractor is the central executive body that provides for the formation and implementation of state policy in the area of social protection of war veterans. The arrangements for funerals and burials in the cemetery are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. The cost of burying the dead comes from the cost of Ukraine’s state budget. The maintenance and protection of the National Military Memorial Cemetery are provided at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine in accordance with the law, as determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u158	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you to speak to the head of the committee's subcommittee on the organization of state authority, local self-government, regional development and the construction of Ghana Veyacheslavovna Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u159	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee considered at its meeting on February 3, 2021, a bill under registration number 4225 and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading to accept it as a basis. However, given the need for its comprehensive work, the Committee also decided that it would be appropriate to consider, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules, to take into account in the bill before the second reading of the proposals and amendments for corrections, clarifications, the elimination of errors and/or contradictions in the text of the bill, other structural parts and/or other legislative acts that were not subject to consideration in the first reading and correspond to the subject of legal regulation. The Committee notes that the introduction into the legislative field of the concept of the National Military Memorial Cemetery, which defines the features of its location and maintenance, as well as the standardization of the arrangements for the burial and burial of persons who are subject to burial in the cemetery, will provide a basis for resolving the issue of honourful burial and burial of fighters for Ukraine's independence. The Committee on Budget Affairs noted that the bill had an impact on the State budget, and according to its financial and economic justification, the principal cost of first-time jobs and services would amount to over 20 million dollars. However, the full amount of construction costs, the maintenance of the memorial complex, will be calculated once its location is confirmed. The Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the European Union has recognised the bill as one that is regulated by the national legislation of the member states of the European Union and does not fall under Ukraine's international legal obligations in the field of European integration. The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy concluded that the bill met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. Therefore, we ask that Bill 4225 be adopted on the basis of a proposal by the Committee to take into account the second reading of the clarifications proposed to it in accordance with the requirements of part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine Nekludov Vladen Mihajlovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People" is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u161	Dear Chairman, I ask you to give my word to my colleague Stryharsky Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u162	Andrew Stryharski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u163	Andrew Stryharsky, 196th District, Cherkaščina Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, I believe that we must now work together and quickly on the legal status of the National Military Memorial Cemetery. The initiative will allow the details of the location and maintenance of the cemetery, the organization of honorable burials and burials in its territory of fighters for Ukraine’s independence in the 20th century, the lost military personnel, and the participants in hostilities. The bill was unanimously supported by my colleagues and colleagues on our committee. I would like to stress that providing legislative guarantees for the proper burial and observance of the memory of the dead members of the Great Motherland is our absolute duty with you. So please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u164	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Chigoza Ahtem Zeitullaiovich, please. Windman, please, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u165	Please give it to Vitatrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, this project unlocks the establishment of the National Military Memorial Cemetery, which Ukraine should have as a worthy state, all the more the state that opposes Russian aggression. Ukraine should finally have its Arlington. By passing this law, we are giving the government the opportunity to create a memorial cemetery that will be in state property and will be financed from the state budget, and, I'm sure, should be in the immediate vicinity of the capital. The work in this direction has been going on for more than a year, and as head of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, I too had the privilege of being one of its members. But you need changes to the law that this bill is actually proposing. The National Military Memorial Cemetery will be dedicated to honorary burials and burials of Ukrainian military personnel, such as those who fell for Ukraine in the 20th century or died under other circumstances, performing military duties, as well as the heroes who gave their lives in today’s war with the Russian Federation. In doing so, the project prohibits the use of a memorial cemetery for the burial of former Chegebists or high-ranking communists if they did not participate in the struggle for an independent Ukraine. So during the second time. But at the same time, on second reading, I think we need to clarify some of the formulations in order to make as clear as possible who can and cannot be buried in this cemetery. The National Memorial Cemetery is to become a place that unites Ukrainians in honor of their heroes, all those who have given their lives for Ukraine’s independence. "European Solidarity" will support this bill. And we urge the President and the government to take the next step: to create a national pantheon in Kiev where the most prominent Ukrainians should be buried. Because it's not about the past -- it's about the present and the future of Ukraine. Because only those who remember the dead are those who are willing to protect the living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u167	The word is given to the national deputy of Burmitch Anatoly Petrovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, of course, all those who have died, wherever there are conflicts, wars are, and whoever is not a party, or who is not one of them, must be buried. Because earthly life ends and man will lie down. The creation of a special cemetery is another step towards laws such as language that will only break apart and split society. And I'm sure we won't back up or mind. But I think it's important that it doesn't happen like it did with the creation of the Maidan Museum when 200 million dollars were stolen. Therefore, if it is to be created, it should unite rather than split society. And there's no one there to do all this business and steal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u169	The word is given to national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u170	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Very well, the honourable colleagues, in accordance with the Supreme Council's Order, but as of 2011, there was a time and opportunity in the government to write this legislation, which I hope will be voted on today in the first reading and then amended and voted on as a whole. What are we talking about? It's about creating a similar, maybe museum that's in Washington, D.C., or next to it, where all those who protected their Fatherland can be buried, with honor, with all the regals. And it's very good that there's a rule that allows all the fighters who have defended Ukraine's independence in national-liberal competitions to be buried. I would like to say that today is not a simple day for the city of Kiev, because on this day in 1918 there was a triumphant march of Sich's archers and other liberating soldiers who demonstrated their will and expelled this Bolshevik invasion from Kiev. It's a symbolic day. We need to remember this story. And it's also very good that the first steps are going to be to allocate funds for the first job. I hope that when certain procedures are passed, the land allocations, the first jobs, will become a question and come to pass in order for us to make all those participants in the free competitions a memorial, a museum, and bring our children there, who have been shown the real, true history of Ukraine. The Fatherland faction calls for all the political powers to be voted on in the first reading, because there is a category to be specified for the second reading, and who needs to be buried, and what departments. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, are they still desirable? I see it's chess. I see the Voice. It won't be anymore. Then I'm going to give two more speeches, and then we're going to vote. I'd like to invite the people's deputies. And then there's, I see, "To the future." You're gonna figure out who it's gonna be. The first is the national deputy Shahov, one minute, and then the next minute, the Voice and the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u172	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Respectful colleagues certainly need to maintain the memory of the dead. We need to support and honor the Ukrainian fighters. But why do I not see today from the ministries who will honor the living people who are now starving, destitute, destitute at the hostels? I spoke again and again from the rostrum: 800 families in the Luhansk region were homeless. So far, no compensation has been granted for their homes, and no compensation has yet been granted for their apartments. The bill on the legalization of these houses has not yet been passed. And so far, people are standing with their hands stretched out to the military and civilian administrations by means of bread. After all, living people are starving, dying, suicide of the sea on the street.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u173	Thank you. Who's next? I saw Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna, and then Samantha Bobrowski. And then we go to the vote. Please, Irina Miroslavna Konstankevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to take the position of the MP's Party for the Future. We also support the idea of the bill because we believe that in this way we can demonstrate our active support for the formation of national memory. Because of such places of collective respect for those who died for Ukraine's independence, we demonstrate how important our past is to us in order to have a future. That's why the members of the Future Group support it, but we're going to ask that the second reading should take away the discussion points that are, as well as the inaccuracies in the formulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u175	Thank you. Samantha Bobrowski, please, the Voice faction. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u176	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. First of all, it's important for us to form a culture of respect for our heroes. Because it shapes the symbolism on which you raise your children, you form yourself, and you form history. I want to be able to come and show not only the Aleya of Heroes in Plain, in Lviv, or in Luhansk or in Odessa, by the way, which was created at the initiative of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, but also in Kiev, to be able to come to our military Arlington and show those who fought for independence. Moreover, I would return to the formation and creation of the Heroic Pantheon. Because all those buried far outside, abroad -- the symbols that were burned, destroyed in order for even the graves to be gone -- they must all be and their dust must return to Ukraine. These are very deep national symbolic things. That's why it's definitely a yes. We're working on it, and the second reading is also for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u177	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I propose to the committee to adopt, on the basis of a proposal by the committee, to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Rules, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the National Military Memorial Cemetery (registration number 4225). Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? Ready? Dear colleagues, the above-mentioned proposal is for voting. Please support and vote. [[13:33:22]] For 304 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill is a draft law amending certain legislative acts to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights (project registration number 4048). The proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:33:59]] For 230 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of Deputy Justice Minister Alexander Anatolyovich Banchuk. Please, Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u178	Dear head, distinguished national MPs! I present to you a bill drafted by the Ministry of Justice to meet a number of requirements arising out of a decision of the European Court of Human Rights. And it is very important that this bill is foreseen in the Supreme Council's legislative work plan under number 347. And that's why we're also doing the legislative work plan. What's this bill about? This bill is designed because, for example, there is a decision "Petuchov." and Petuhov (2) v. Ukraine, which is that we can't now review cases of permanent deprivation. persons who are permanently deprived of their will to be replaced by a term of imprisonment. And this bill predicts that. There's also a decision, "Vashchenko." and Najdion v. Ukraine on the possibility of getting to know convicted persons about the materials of completed criminal conduct. And the bill foresees that they can get acquainted with electronic copies of conducts in order to prepare appropriate complaints, they or lawyers, and they won't have to spend time and costs, resources to advance to the proper placement of the courts to familiarize themselves with these materials. The amendments to the Transport Act are also intended to allow strikes to be carried out on transport because this legislation prohibits Ukraine at the moment, but this is duly established in the decision "Venyamin Timoshenko v. Ukraine" in the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which does not meet the requirements and standards of the European Convention. Therefore, the request, given that there are a number of decisions and that there are certain legal obligations of Ukraine before the European Court of Human Rights, to bring existing legislation into line with those standards, and that we are not actually obliged and there is no violation of human rights. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u179	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Igor Pavlovich Fries. Please, Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u180	Good afternoon, dear fellows! At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on 7 September 20th, the Committee on Legal Policy was discussed at its meeting on 19 November 20th (Protocol No. 40) of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights (Registration No. 4048) since 3 September 20th, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Right now, the representative of the Ministry of Justice was determined that the bill was necessary to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code, as well as the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Oversight of Persons Released from Places of Will. It has been clearly stated that these requirements are in line with the relevant decision of the European Court of Human Rights, and we, as a country that has joined in the implementation of these decisions, are obliged to implement these decisions. The bill was discussed on the committee. There were relevant conclusions from the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, where some comments were made. The bill was considered by the Committee on Social Policy and the Protection of Veterans' Rights, who also agreed to recommend the bill as a basis. The findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Law Institute were as appropriate, and they also made a number of comments that could be corrected by redrafting the second reading. Taking this into account, on the basis of the above-mentioned Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy, it decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights decisions (registration number 4048, dated 03 September 2020), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the basis of the first reading. Ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce to the plenary during the consideration of the bill in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to National Deputy Ariev Volodymyr Igorovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u182	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u183	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u184	Thank you for the word. The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, during our consideration of the appointment of the Constitutional Court judge, we had a lively discussion here, which ended with a seemingly consensus understanding that the institution of the constitutional complaint that we instituted had not yet worked in the way we had planned from the beginning, and unfortunately did not become the factor that would have affected the decline in the number of complaints brought to the Ukrainian Court of Human Rights. Because it's the task of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Complaint to decide, including in the area of life imprisonment, these issues, in exchange for some cases, the application of conditional release and so on. Another issue is that perhaps the level of trust in national courts is less than that of the European Court of Human Rights. And so Ukraine is actively taking one of the "palm priorities" of referring to the European Court of Human Rights for many years in a row. That's why we have a whole series of pilot decisions starting with the "Ivanov v. Ukraine" decision and a series of loud decisions like "Petuhov" and "Petuhov (2)" on Ukraine. Nevertheless, it is very good that we have begun to respond in some way more actively to those decisions of the European Court of Human Rights that are already there, which I think will make it impossible to make similar references to such cases in the future. So we will certainly support this bill on the basis. There are some warnings about individual nuances. Including we understand that the conditional-term, it's not always fair and transparent in Ukraine, and we're going to have to think about how to react to it. Similarly, some adjustments and changes will have to be made to the second reading in part of labour legislation. However, in the first reading, the faction will certainly support the bill and will actively prepare its proposals for second reading, so that after its adoption we can show an example of how Ukraine not only implements the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, but also for our citizens show the model by which they can be calm, that their appeals will be heard and implemented in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u185	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy, Annie Constantine's Speedy, the MP's Party for the Future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u186	Please pass the word to Dmitri Lubinci.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u187	Dmitri Lubinets, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u188	I would like to point out first that we are considering two bills, and they are related to each other, 4048 and the next 4049. Completely technical and correct bills, we have to vote for them. I support what the previous speaker said. The problem is, unfortunately, that Ukraine is now first among all countries to turn our citizens to the European Court of Human Rights. And just to make it smaller, the technical moments we're doing a lot of cleaning so that in the future it doesn't give us any reason to turn our citizens around again. That's why we have to vote. The MP's Party for the Future will support and vote in the first reading. But once again, I pay attention to this very often from this rostrum, I say, honourable national deputies, before the vote, that the two bills, both 4048 and 4049, have been noted by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, who will need to be corrected, cleaned up in preparation for the second reading. So, of course, in the first reading, we vote yes. I think there shouldn't be any differences here, the whole Parliament should vote in favour, but the second reading, I'm going to refer to a committee of profile, work on both bills to make a well-verified document that will really help our citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u189	Thank you. The word is given to Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u190	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to correct the previous speaker a little bit: Ukraine is the third, not the first, on the list of complaints before the European Court of Human Rights after the Russian Federation and Turkey. That's the first one. The other one. In fact, what's the matter with "Friends. ""Petuchov (2) v. Ukraine"? This is a judgment of the European Court of Justice, which acknowledges the very fact that there is no possibility to review life sentences. The very fact that it is impossible to review is determined by the European Court of Human Rights as torture. This is also the position taken by the European Council of Europe’s Committee against Torture. So in fact, the laws of 4048 and 4049 are the answer to that question, so they have to be supported in the first reading. But are they perfect? Absolutely not. It is quite obvious that they need work in preparation for the second reading. So once again, I'm pointing out to the honourable Mr. Head that the committee has decided to apply 116. By the way, as far as I know, 4048 is the same position as 4049. Apply article 116 of the Rules so that these bills can be finalized. Because, for example, 4049, which I don't know if we're going to be able to talk about today, has no specificity, no mechanism to review sentences of permanently deprived will under the Criminal Procedure Code of 1960. And this problem really exists objectively, and it needs to be solved. It can be resolved both in Bill 4048 partially and in Law 4049. Therefore, the "Fatherland" faction will support these two bills as a basis and will also propose amendments to improve these bills, and in order for the European Court of Human Rights to decide on the "Petuchov" case. and "Petuchov v. Ukraine (No2)" was fully implemented, and this decision was removed from the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u191	Thank you. That's the kind of proposal I'm going to put to the vote that's on the committee. I invite you to the words of Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u192	Dear Chairman, please pass the word to Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u193	Nestor Ivanovich, I'm sorry, Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u194	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, to many Ukrainians, it has been regrettable that the European Court of Human Rights has become the last place where they have found the truth. Sadly, they were unable to find the truth in their home country. We have ratified the agreement and, indeed, we recognize the decision of the European Court of Human Rights as being required to execute in Ukraine. And that is how it has been done to this day. And you know, the rights of our citizens, which have already been approved by the European Court of Human Rights, have not been taken up by today. What does this law now suggest? He proposes to complicate the procedure for the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights decisions handed down for the benefit of our citizens. Therefore, on the basis of the interests and exclusive rights of our citizens, and especially as the authorities are now destroying the constitutional foundations of our state, that is, effectively halting the Constitutional Court, and now seeking independent judicial power, I find it inappropriate, inappropriate to intervene in the procedure for implementing the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. And that's why, and before that, there were claims against all the predecessors that you've replaced. But none of them even came up with the idea of making the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights more difficult in our country. The attitude toward this court is that of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u195	Thank you. Anyone else want a motive? I see, Mezentseva, the National MP, and Aresonkov, and then we go to the vote. Let's first, if we may, Maria Mezentsev, please. And then, Volodymyr Yuriovich, we will invite you and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u196	My fellow Members, as Head of the delegation of the Council of Europe to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I would like to point out that this bill is in line with our international obligations. Ukraine joined the Council of Europe in 95. The European Court of Human Rights is one of the bodies of the Council of Europe. Its implementation, that is, by 47 countries of the Council of Europe, is compulsory. This bill makes an even more positive sense for us to come out as a country under surveillance. We also welcome the President's decision to restart the competition as a representative, a representative from Ukraine to the European Court of Human Rights. Dear colleagues, I urge you to support Bill 4048. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u197	Thank you. Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u198	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, the opinion of the "Trust" MP group is completely correlated with the thought of colleagues who have already expressed themselves. And we agree that the question of fulfilling Ukraine’s international obligations is extremely important. We must do everything we can to ensure that the European Court of Human Rights comes to its conclusion. And certainly there should be constant control of the issue of improving the status of human rights among the condemned. It seems to me that both Bill 4048 and 4049, they should definitely be further developed for the second reading, because there are, and today our colleagues have expressed their comments, but nevertheless, in the first reading we have to accept them. The Trust MPs will do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u199	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'll ask the national deputies to take their seats. And I am simply stressing once again that I am putting to the vote the proposal made by the committee, namely: to take the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation of the second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights (registration number 4048). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:51:08]] For 305 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have the next bill, it's related to this bill, and if we may, we can vote without discussing it? Dear colleagues, then with your permission. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can we? On the basis of that, of course. The committee didn't put 116 in here. Here's the committee's decision on the basis. Then let's maybe give the committee a word. I don't know, I have a decision on the ground. Let's make a statement to the committee. But before I invite the committee, let's vote on the simplified procedure for this bill. Dear colleagues, I'm setting up a reduced procedure under Law 4049. Please support and vote. [[13:52:17]] For 273 Decision taken. Since we have agreed that the objects are clear, the same, I will not invite the rapporteur, but I will invite the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Monastery of Denis Anatoliyovich. Please, Dennis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, the bill is part of the government's initiative to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. It refers to an extremely important question, two basic questions. It's a question of the "defendants" who are in prison and sentenced to permanent deprivation of liberty, the so-called right to hope, that after a certain period of time there may be a review of the court's decision. This is part of the bill. And the second part of the bill concerns the issue of administrative arrest also in the light of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. In this context, the committee has expressed its position because we have already adopted in the first reading a bill on the procedure for administrative arrest, which we are preparing for the second reading. And obviously, if this is supported by the committee, before the second reading, Bill 4049 will be subject to the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In general, this bill, which we are talking about right now, needs to be supported in the first reading and further developed in the second reading through regulations and proposals. The committee decided to support it as a basis. Also, please support and the hall will also make this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-03-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no objection to such a decision by the committee? Dear colleagues, then, with your permission, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights (registration number of Project 4049). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:54:54]] For 313 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I've been meaning to consult you. We've got five minutes left. Look, I understand the next question is that there's no way to get in. But let's make a rational use of the time, the bill of calculation that we adopted today in the first reading. We've got 8 more names that have no objections, 8 renamings. Ready? Dear colleagues, I bet. Those who agreed were in the hall. Okay. Dear colleagues, the first draft of a ruling that. First draft of the Order on the Assignment of Appointment to the Tisminicki district of Ivano-Frankiv region (registration number 3535). Let us put this decision to the vote. Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[13:56:26]] For 319 Decision taken. The next project, Decree 4675, is a draft decree to rename the village of Corosne Lviv district of Lviv district. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:56:58]] For 315 Decision taken. Next draft of the Order on the name of the village of Brusturov in the region of Ivano-Frankiv district (registration No. 5074). Ready to vote? Please support and vote in favour of this draft decision. [[13:57:33]] For 321 Decision taken. Next draft of the Order on the Rename of the village of Borschev in the Lviv district of Lviv district (registration No. 5076). Ready to vote? Please support and vote on this draft decision. [[13:58:03]] For 325 Decision taken. The next project, Decree 5080, is a draft decree to rename the village of Krinice Zitomir district of Žitomir district. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:58:33]] For 317 Decision taken. The next project, Decree 5083, is a draft decree to rename the village of Zebloh of the Kremenack district of Ternopil district. Please support and vote. [[13:59:02]] For 321 Decision taken. And the passing of the decree is the draft Order 5084 on the renaming of the village of the Yearly district of Suma. Please support and vote. [[13:59:30.]] For the 320. Decision taken. And the last one today, the extreme one, is a draft decree on the renaming of the village of Mokriyuk in the Mirgorod region of Poltava. — Registration No. 5085. Please support and vote. [[13:59:58]] For 321 For 322. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this is it. The only other thing is, there's four applications. Well, they don't decide anything, but with regard to the vote 3711-d. These are statements by the people's deputies Drabovsky, Tishchenka, Kopanczuk and Voronov that they wanted to vote in favour, but the technology didn't give them the opportunity. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
