ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare for registration. Is it Vlasenko? I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, that's the first one on the left. You're a medic. You can do that, too. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:09:27]] There are 234 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputy Jurassic. Sveslav Andriyovich, welcome! I want health, success, strength, achievement, victory, and the best! 25 years is such a big age. Dear colleagues, let's get to work. In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations today, on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements and messages. Please sign up for the factions and groups. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u2	Dear Ukrainians, you all remember that from every talk show, every teapot and every scratch, the Green Health Minister, Mr. Stepanov, promised that a broad vaccination would start on February 15th. Today's the 16th, there's no vaccine in Ukraine. And so far, the country doesn't know how much, when, who, how much. And international experts and Ukrainian politicians say that there is big corruption here, a new "great theft", just this once, in the public's health. And it is obvious that if Stephen had the honor and dignity, he would immediately resign for failing the vaccine. But the age of dignity has ended, and cynicism determines the politics of today’s authorities, especially when it comes to the situation on the front. This year 13 Ukrainian soldiers were killed by Russian invaders and their mercenaries. And at this time, the troubadours in the state of the Bank claim that peace lasts, and these are isolated cases. Moreover, Zelensky himself today stated that the three Ukrainian soldiers who blew up mines set up by the Russian Federation’s diversified intelligence groups blew themselves up. In fact, we hear statements every day that the Ukrainian army is squirming, that the Ukrainian army is drinking, and the Commander-in-Chief has found time to recite Roschen's oil in his spare parts, but he hasn't found time to talk to the Ukrainian soldiers. In fact, when Bank's hand closes the Kremlin's television washes, in the other hand it gives the bank's troubadours, especially Leonid Kravchuku, to be included in the Kremlin's televisions, Russian television channels, and to have a direct dialogue with Pushilin. Please tell me, what more disgrace does it take to see how this authority offers national Ukrainian interests every day? In fact, the Ukrainian Army, the Ukrainian guys who sign contracts to motivate themselves to be patriotic, to protect national interests, but including worthy wages, today get the lowest salary in all these years because twice, twice, twice in a row, they don't pay Ukrainian soldiers. But they get fined, they don't get a bonus if they shoot back or notice enemy fire. In fact, we demand that the Commander-in-Chief immediately cancel this system of fines and direct armies, return the army to the Ukrainian positions from which they were taken and eventually learn to call things by their names. On Donbas, they're not separatists. They're Russian occupying forces and their mercenaries. And we demand that Parliament immediately adopt a bill on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u3	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I don't think there's been any information that the European Parliament has adopted a resolution and the International Monetary Fund in one of its documents has said that in Ukraine again problem number one is corruption. You know, we're dealing with all the things that relate to tariffs, gas charges, heat. And we decided last week to collect payments from the country, and how much people pay for gas, as a result, for heat, for hot water, and so on. So what I'm saying is that we collected the payments, here's the sum total of this analytical work. And I can tell you that virtually anywhere in Ukraine, people don't get 6.99 dollars per cubic meter, they get, starting at 9 and above, they split the payments into two parts to hide the real cost of the gas. But that is the first thing that is a great deception. But there is another deception that we accidentally discovered by analyzing payments. I've got an analysis of every area in my hands right now. So, in every area, we've got these reconciled middlemen who buy gas that's cheap in Crushing, they buy cheap gas at NAC Naftogaz, then they give twice the price and they sell that gas to liars. I want to ask: When did we have such a beautiful market? And why is NAC Naftogaz using gas in shelters? And the Crushing, the gas we're extracting, can't sell directly to people? Because there's a whole layer of intermediation pads. And it's not just corruption. I have three questions. First of all, who defines companies that are allowed to buy cheap gas in Crushing and NAC Naftogazi and sell two roads to people? Second of all, who's dividing the profits from this? And thirdly, who's going to answer to the people who are promised tariff cuts, and basically they're making money that not only poor people are howling, the middle class is already howling? Even rich people look at their bills and think it's cheaper to live in old Europe because there's cheaper tariffs. You know, it's been a while since I can remember. And that's why either we're dealing with this or we're not. We've proposed Bill 4680, which clearly provides for gas for scrapping and shelters for people with a price of 30 percent. This law was signed by all but two leaders: "Serve of the people" and "European Solidarity". I want to, now I have a break in my hands, gather all the faction leaders and insist on an immediate vote in favour of this law. Either you and I stop corruption and we restore justice, or we end it the way it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u5	Black Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u6	Dmitri Black, 34 constituency, Dniproperty, city of Yellow Waters. Dear colleagues, Ukraine today is on the verge of losing its energy independence. This is about the possible destruction of the uranium industry in the face of the state-owned enterprise East HLC, which is strategic for the whole country. This has been reported in a public audio recording from a meeting at the Ministry of Energy. Unfortunately, according to the executive minister, the business and the industry need to be closed down, similar products need to be purchased in foreign countries, and workers need to be sent abroad because they feel that they are better off there. And secondly, they have long become the main source of government budget revenues because of their money transfers home. I definitely disagree with that. And I understand that the uranium industry is in crisis in the world right now. But let's think about it, that out of 15 countries, only three countries, they're extracting uranium wirelessly, and everyone else is supporting their industries as strategic. So, first of all, we need to make an effort to find an opportunity to support the uranium sector of Ukraine and the East of GCC, to support people, to support workers, that's the main task of our Ministry of Energy's professional management. We just need to understand that behind the uranium industry and the East of GCC, behind East of GCC, there's the vitality of several cities in the Kirovograd and Dnipropetrov areas, a lot of human destiny, more than 5,000 jobs and our energy security. Please, colleagues, please, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, please ask the President to hear the uranium miners and not to allow this area to be closed. Because if we lose her now, we'll never get her back. Thank you for your attention. Dmitri Black, 34 constituency, Dniproperty.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u7	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Inni Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u9	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u10	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, on December 17, 2020, there was a crime in this room: after voting for the appointment of Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Sergio Scarlett and I saw the figure 226 on this chart. We all know that there were no 226 votes for the appointment of Sergei Scarlett as minister. What we've done as the Voice Party has done with this breach. First. We went to the Attorney General's Office. And I want to officially thank the Attorney General of Venedict for having already opened criminal proceedings for the fact of the buttoning of the appointment of Sergey Scarlett. At the same time, not all government authorities respond adequately to what has happened. I have the answer in my hands from the Department of State Security, which says I can't give video recordings of what was happening in this moment in Parliament. Does this mean that we should surrender? No, it's not. I am convinced that, on the contrary, it means that we, as a parliament, must do everything possible to stop this violation and that the perpetrators of this crime must be punished. So my colleagues at Voice and I prepared a constitutional application to recognize the appointment of Sergei Scarlett as illegal. I want to thank my colleagues from two factions, European Solidarity and Fatherland, who helped prepare this constitutional application. Why should we do that, colleagues? It's not a personal or party vendetta, it's not even a perception of whether Minister Scarlet is a good minister. This is about whether we, as the Supreme Council, believe that laws must be enforced. I am convinced that we, as law makers, should show respect for the laws. I'm also sure there's not one person in this room, again, who thinks that 226 national deputies voted for Sergei Scarlett. And most of all, I'm sure that if we show that we're here with you, in this room, we don't respect the laws that we're adopting with you, we can't expect to build a legal society in this country. If you and I ignore the laws, we need to understand that these laws will be ignored by other authorities and society in general. So I'm asking representatives of all parties, all national MPs to sign this constitutional application, no matter how you voted in favour of this appointment, whether you support Sergei Scarlett as Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine or not, because it's a statement about whether we believe that laws are to be implemented. So I very much ask your attention to this issue so that we can demonstrate by the Supreme Council that we finally respect the law and the need for punishment for buttoning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u11	Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u12	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, as we communicate with people, we see more and more that one of the main problems in Ukraine is the issue of professional heads in the executive branch. First. Let's sort it out in order. Vaccination. Since February 15, we had to start vaccination as promised by the government, as announced by the government. According to official statistics in Ukraine, we take those who have been officially vaccinated -- we have zero vaccines in Ukraine. Here we stand in front of all the countries of Europe and the entire civilized world. As long as our department of profile deals with its purchasers, identifying internal conflicts within themselves, vulnerable categories of people in Ukraine die. And that's the question of not having money in the budget, it's, it's this money, it's in the budget. It's a question of what's going on in the heads of our government management. The second is energy. The tariff crisis isn't over, it's too far away. We know who provoked it in Ukraine, actually artificially provoked it in Ukraine, by sowing social tension that does not subside. The question of the cost of Ukrainian gas, which is attached to the gas shelters, is not directed to the needs of the population. Instead, people sell gas at times more expensive than imported gas. The question of subsidiarity policy. We realize that the temporary moratorium on raising tariffs imposed by the government will not solve the tariff crisis and that tariffs will begin to rise at the end of the heating season, and the population will no longer be able to pay such prices. Think about it, according to the Ministry of Economic Development, in 2021, the price of hot water heating could increase by 16 to 18 percent, by electricity, from 38 percent to 52 percent. And by October of this year, we're going to have another tariff floor. So "For the Future" calls on the government to increase funding for the utility subsidies that were cut in the budget for 2021 and to simplify the way they were received. Friends, the government, we think, has got a little mixed up with its government management. And we want to emphasize that twice, or even three times, in the same river, you can join the candidates for ministerial posts. We have to put this in the law so that it applies to both today's and tomorrow's practice in this room. We want to see from the government the pillars of protecting the interests of Ukrainian citizens. So when we hear about the International Monetary Fund putting Ukraine under new conditions in order to get another tranche, we want to know what the terms are, what is the other terms of the cabal, which is the burden on Ukrainian citizens. In order not to show that the Ukrainian government is both power and will, and the power of will is not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u13	Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs! Last week, the six - year anniversary of the signing of the Minsk Treaties was celebrated. This event was extremely important for our country, because the signing of the Minsk Protocol allowed us to stop the active phase of fighting in the country, to stop the mass tragedies, and the Minsk Protocol itself, I want to remind everyone in this room, is the only official document today that the UN Security Council has recognised as an international community as a political way of resolving the East War. Why did it happen that in six years we did not move ahead in the implementation of the Minsk Protocol? The previous authorities had no political will to do this; today's authorities are afraid of nationalist radicals. But we are absolutely certain that we have no other way out of this conflict than to pursue a political solution. Our political power "The Opposition Platform for Life" has a clear position on how to do this. Parliament must adopt laws that unlock the Minsk process. We need to negotiate with all participants in the Minsk Protocol. And I want to remind you that it's not just the OSCE, Russia, Ukraine, and these are the unrecognizable republics, too. We need to negotiate, conduct an honest dialogue with society, that dialogue is better than shooting. And we are ready for that, and we hope that Parliament will also be ready for that. The second question I want to raise right now is the question of domestic production. We have received the first reading of Bill 3739, which is signed by all the heads of factions, voted in the first reading, and is estimated by the Federation of Employers of Ukraine to open up 60,000 new jobs and save 200,000 existing ones. The bill is very simple: the budget will only have to buy equipment if there is a domestic component from 10 percent this year to 50 in a few years. This bill awaits all industry, all society. We support him. And I would like to urge the entire Parliament to vote in favour of this as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u15	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. I'm going to mention the word "trust" a few times in my statement, because it's deep within its meaning. And without trust, it is impossible to build a common life, and it is impossible without restoring the trust of the citizens of our society in power to rebuild the process of nation building. Thus, we are often criticized for putting too much trust in the Ukrainian government, instead of demanding strict responsibility for some, such as failure or failure. So what I'm saying is that the level of trust we have in government is already on the line. And exactly what happens today is that the national vaccination campaign depends on both the assessment of responsibility and not only on Minister Stepanov, but also on the Prime Minister and the government as a whole. And about vaccination. We believe that by September of the month a category such as teachers, teachers, and teachers should be inoculated. By the beginning of the school year, they must be protected from disease. Now, let's talk about trust. Our trust, all of us, in Parliament and in the community, in the National Police, in the law enforcement agencies. Today the daily bill 2695 is in order. It is as if we are dealing with matters of increasing the responsibility of those driving in a shaky state or in a state of drunkenness. There are many discussions today. I'm sure that we need to clear some of the rules of dispute, but in general this bill needs to be supported, because this is our trust in the National Police and we need to create all the conditions so that they can work effectively, then there will be order, including on our roads. And about the important bills that are the authors of our group. Today, of course, an important 4248-1 bill will be considered to review the deadlines for establishing natural gas meters for consumers. And we definitely need to support it, because we're taking down the top financial burden on our citizens. And I would also like to ask my colleagues to support Bills 4635 and 4639, which also promote the protection of the rights of natural gas consumers and regulate the subject of tariffs. It's very important, it's very relevant today, so, dear colleagues, I urge everyone to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now we have one break with a replacement for the performance, a second break with a replacement for the performance. Then we vote on the draft Order of the Day Session, and there will be a break yet. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u18	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, from all over Luhansk, from every voter who has given up 93.3 per cent for the President of Ukraine, I am asking all of Alexander Sukhova's voters, Sergey Velmogny, Alexander Lukashev, Sergey Shahov to remove the villain who is killing the area. If they don't hear "Haidey," your last name is Highday, that's what people say. So I want to read to you what's going on in the area. The voter's address: "Sergey Volodymyrovich. (I can't translate the native language that is there.) Sergei Volodymyrovich, good Saturday to you. I'm sorry to disturb you, but I can't help but cry so I can't tell you what's going on with our suffering people. You may not use such facts about the life of ordinary mortals or use them in your speeches. Yesterday a woman told me how she and her family survives, lives with their daughter, a grandson-schooler in a two-bedroom apartment, saves everything. But I was personally impressed that they would save water to pay less. Saturday is their bath day. First, they wash their heads with one water at a time, then pour the same water into the bath, pouring about two buckets of water, and in turn bathe: first the grandson, then the daughter, then the grandmother, and finally the mother. The toilet is washed after two or three visits in small quantities, and the water is not washed into the sewers, but washes the floor and dirty boots. This is our life. Be healthy! With God! We miss you." Dear colleagues, this is one case. But the governor of the Lugansk region during the war, during the deaths of the military, sits in a restaurant, intimidates the waitress, drinks completely, and holds the restaurant until the first night. What kind of vaccination can we talk about?Oh, my God! What diseases can we talk about?Oh, my God! People on the brink of poverty. Today the area is being looted, the area is being burned down. 22 billion dollars is damage. Environmental disaster, technological disaster. And this "disgusting" is sitting there saying it's the President's godfather today! When will this end in our country? Whose vertical is this? I'm talking to all of Luhansk: immediately remove the villain, investigate, audit all the state funds of Severerodonetsk, Lisicansk, a billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u19	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, you all remember the crossover movie "Brexit", which was about how you manipulated the public opinion in Britain before you voted to leave the European Union. You remember how groups of apherists or simply talented so - called polytechnologists hired various sociological agencies to actually engage in propaganda through social networks and to impose a favourable opinion on them. We faced a similar situation during the election of the President of Ukraine. Because everyone saw how similar mechanisms were used to actually demean President Peter Prashenko at the time. We see, unfortunately, similar situations continue now. Yesterday, for example, the Bouquet website published a major study that specifically refers to the creation of a whole range of shoe groups, social mechanisms in social networks, to destroy and humiliate a whole range of Ukrainian politicians. These are different people, including Peter Prashenko, the fifth president of Ukraine, but not just him. Among them is Mr. Razumkov, Head of the Supreme Council. Among them is former president Bogdan’s chief of staff, or deputy, now the opposition Geo Leros. Among them is Arsenius Yatzenuk. Among them are the prisoners of the Kremlin of Oleg of the Shadows and many others. There is one person who is praised by these botov social networks – Vladimir Zelensky, President of Ukraine. You know, similar actions are condemned all over the world and the social networks themselves, Facebook and others when it comes to opposition to power. But for the first time, we have this example where the government, through social networks, is fighting opposition because of boots at the expense of unknown origin. Who pays for it? We're taxpayers. What is the meaning of such approaches and such a work against opposition, where lies spread through hundreds of thousands of people’s money in social networks? It testifies to the beginning of dictatorship. There is only one country that allows itself to do so. And this country in the east. This country is an aggressor country in Russia, where opposition is being thrown into prison, where opposition is being humiliated through the media and where, as our Ukrainian authorities are now, millions of their rubles are being used to humiliate the leaders of the opposition. Let's stop. Because when the President's Chief of Staff says it's time to think about shutting down the front channel and not ashamed of it, tomorrow they won't be ashamed of shutting down each and every one of you. No, it's a dictatorship! Let us still live in a democratic country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 4690-1). Ready to vote? The vote was put to the vote, dear colleagues. The question is put to the vote. The proposals of all factions are already taken into account, almost all of them. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[10:40:46]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there has been an application for a real recess with the request to gather the heads of the deputy factions and groups in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I invite everyone to my home, my dear colleagues. I'd like to remind you, break 30 minutes. So at 11:10, we start working.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. You are invited to consider a draft regulation on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the United Nations, the governments and parliaments of the world to condemn the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the city of Sevastopol, violations of human rights and freedoms in temporarily occupied territories and the release of political prisoners from Ukraine. We need to make a decision to put the matter in order of the day. It takes 226 votes. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:15:56]] For 297 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:16:25]] For 311 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:16:50]] For 251 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine Umerov Rustem Enverovich is invited to attend. Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! There are things that are obvious: the sun always rises in the east, always sits in the west, after any winter comes spring, the Putinian Russia is the enemy, the aggressor and the invader, the Crimea has been, is and will be the Ukrainian land. Such is the self - evident position of the Supreme Council regarding Russia’s occupation of the Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. I am confident that this is the obvious reaction of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council of the Ninth Council, to the draft decision that is proposed to your mind. The occupation of the Crimea has lasted seven years, and all these seven years have systematically violated human rights: the right to freedom of conscience, the right to freedom of confession, the right to peaceful meetings, and the right to free movement. At least 119 Ukrainian citizens were criminally responsible for their conscious pro - Ukrainian position. At least 40 people representing the Crimean Solidarity Defence Organization are in places of non-freedom and there are 119 Ukrainian citizens in total. That is why a group of national deputies, representing various factions, proposes and requires a wide range of important international institutions to consolidate international cooperation and our cooperation on the return of Ukrainian territories in order to require Russia to stop violations of citizens’ rights and freedoms, including the prohibition of the transfer of prisoners, illegally imprisoned Ukrainian citizens, to prisons outside the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. We urge not only to preserve but also to strengthen the sanction mechanism, and we hope that the entire international community will support our call. I don't even encourage you to vote yes, I'm sure any man who respects his state will press the green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u24	The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u25	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! At its meeting on 10 February 2021, the Committee discussed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the United Nations, the governments and parliaments of the world on the condemnation of the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, violations of human rights and freedoms in the temporarily occupied territories and the release of political prisoners, Ukrainian citizens, who had been introduced by the People's Chamber and others. In this connection, the Committee proposes to consider and recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the above-mentioned draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, setting out its name and text in such an editorial form, quote: "Relation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Organization of the United Nations, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the United Nations, the governments and parliaments of the States of the world in connection with the new anniversary of the beginning of the armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, the condemnation of the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the city of Sevastopol and the separate areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk region, violations of human rights and freedoms in the temporarily occupied territories and the release of political prisoners of Ukraine." In paragraph 1 of the Ordinance, put the name in the pre-sounded edition. The committee also recommends that the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be approved, taking into account the amendments proposed by members of the committee, the text of the Committee's Editorial Appeal, which was given to you. Dear colleagues, the determination is to approve the appeal to the world community to continue its policy of non-recognizance and condemnation of the attempted annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol and the temporary occupation of individual areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u26	Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u27	Please give the floor to your colleague Krulk Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u28	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u29	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, the Fatherland faction will vote in favour of the Supreme Council's decision to refer the Supreme Council to the United Nations and a number of international institutions to condemn the illegal occupation and annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. But I would also like to point out that my colleague at the Grigory Nemira faction is absolutely right during the meeting of the profile committee, and he pointed out that when we talk about the condemnation of the occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in an inseparable connection, we should also talk about Ukrainian Donbas, a part of whose territory is occupied by the Russian Federation, where the essentially Russian administration, which contains the occupying forces, is established. And, of course, our task as the Ukrainian Parliament is to keep at the highest level the question that the Ukrainian State has become the target of an attack by the neighboring Russian Federation, which has annexed Crimea, which has occupied part of the Ukrainian Donbas and is leading the war against Ukraine. If we don't keep this issue in the spotlight, sooner or later the Russian Federation through its propaganda channels, because of its agency work, it's going to be more and more leading to a situation that it's already a state of affairs. It can't be a state of affairs until we get full control of Donbas and restore territorial integrity to both Donbass and Crimea. And most importantly, we will not return our Ukrainian citizens who are in this temporary occupation. We're going to vote in favour of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u30	Thank you. Sergey Labazuk, Party for the Future. Please, Sergey Labazuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u31	Please give ass to Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u32	Hustle Igor, please. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u33	Dear friends! There is no doubt that this is a question that needs to be brought together today. On many occasions, I have personally, our MP group has stressed that the first issue of Crimea should be the order of the daily Ukrainian Parliament. And, in principle, we have to put a constant emphasis on the fact that Crimea is Ukraine in both the territory of Ukraine and the world community. Our fight for Ukrainian interest in Crimea should be on the order of the day, no matter how long it has been since the Russian Federation occupied our territory. So I'm deeply convinced that the Ukrainian factions, and here almost all but one, always have to stand for one thing, because, yes, we may be disunited by politics, we may be disconnected by some tactical issues, but the return strategy of Crimea, the recovery strategy of Donbas is always to unite everyone who is Ukrainian and who is the patriot in this room. So, no doubt, I personally, on behalf of our colleagues, and on behalf of all the Ukrainians who are now in Crimea waiting for our principle position, and on behalf of the parliamentary group "For the Future" I call for support of this decision, and in the rest of the world, to keep this attitude and always to address the world community, and to focus on the fact that Crimea is Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u34	Please, National Deputy Mamyan Suto Čolojevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u35	Please pass the word to the Shufresche.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u36	Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u37	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman! Crime, of course, is our territory, it is Ukraine. And we have to protect everyone in this territory, regardless of the national sign: both our Crimean Tatars by nationality, and the Russians, who are Ukrainian citizens by nationality, and everyone else by the nationality of the Ukrainian citizens who live there. Of course, this is no longer a question for me, not for the "Serve of the people," but for the priest: how did it happen that Crimea ceased to be Ukraine? Of course, you can complain to anyone today, but you have to make sure that life in Ukraine is something that our citizens want to go back to Ukraine. And that may be only if we are able to bring peace today at Donbassa. And we're already hearing that the deal isn't like that, and it's not that time. Everything is hampering, apart from one, the will to achieve results, the will to achieve peace in our country as a guarantee of stability, the guarantee of the preservation of the lives of our citizens, the stability of the economy and, as a result, the political and social. So today, when we talk about human rights, we think we need to talk about the rights of all Ukrainian citizens, about the rights of the 500,000 Ukrainian citizens who live in the Donetsk and Lugansk region, who are not allowed to vote in the area of control. When we move away from double standards, then our faction will support similar draft regulations. And today freedom of speech is the foundation of democracy, the right to elections violated in Ukraine, so we will refrain from voting in protest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u38	Please, a word. [[B in m in s a l in]] For what reason, Peter Alexiovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u39	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u40	He didn't name the faction as far as I could tell. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, a word. There was a line, wasn't there? Because I am. Did you get a last name? Because I didn't hear it. They say there wasn't a last name, and the word "prosecutors" was said. And before that, it's like "breeders."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u41	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u42	No, Peter Alexiyovich, come on. The word is given to the national deputy Zabrodsky Mikhail Vitaliyovich, the political party "European Solidarity". Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u43	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! First of all, I'd like to take advantage of the right of replication and prove to the Fifth Column of the Russian Federation that I don't respect, as the Crimea was captured. Even though I had the inauguration in June, when Russian annexation and Russian occupation lasted for several months, they still cannot figure out who is to blame for the annexation and aggression. We're informing you on behalf of the entire Hall that this man's name is Putin. The one who filed with his Federation Council the Law on the Right to Use Russian Armed Forces abroad. The one who introduced the army, the one who killed the Crimean Tatars and the Ukrainian patriots, was the one who captured and imprisoned them. And Ahtem Chigoz can tell you this vividly if you open your eyes and stop doing the aggressor country's tasks by planting these Russian propaganda that you've still had the opportunity to distribute through your channels, which are fortunately closed. I would like to point out that in the days of Dusty you tried to buy these channels a few weeks before my cadence was finished. And then you were just bragging and "melting" for Zelensky, and now that you've been denied the right to fool Ukrainian people, this whole room supports this decision. Putin, you've figured out who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u44	From the Servant of the People, please. Nestor Ivanovich, let's all take the floor and then we'll figure it out. Venislavsky's "Serve of the People", please. And from Voice, yes, I can see that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Of course, the obvious fact is that the Russian Federation was five years ago. Six years ago, in 2014, she severely violated the fundamental principles of the United Nations — she occupied part of Ukraine. So as the Ukrainian Parliament, we have to use every opportunity, every opportunity to remind the world that the Russian Federation is an aggressor country that has occupied part of Ukraine's territory, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And I would like to urge everyone not to apply the term "enixia" but to apply the term "occupation." Just as the Russian Federation occupied part of the territory of eastern Ukraine, namely, the separate areas of Lugansk and Donetsk, and grossly violates human rights both in Crimea and in Donbas. So the "Serial of the People" faction will vote in favour of this decree, and I urge everyone to support this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u46	Please be prepared. Nestor Ivanovich! Nestor Ivanovich, please come. I don't understand. Come here now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Get out of here. So far, Samantha's Anatoliyevna Bobrowska.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u47	I'm so aware that the faction that the Supreme Council of another country was wrong on one occasion, so it's uncertain that it won't vote and support the ruling. Dear colleagues, a few things. The first is forced citizenship of the Russian Federation. The second is an illegal appeal to the Russian Federation Armed Forces. The third is the actual increase in military, military contingents in the area of A.R. Crimea. The third is more than 188 children of Crimean Tatars who grow up without parents. The fourth is more than 100 Crimean Tatars and Ukrainians who are now political prisoners. An ecological catastrophe and actually a water crisis that the invader is trying to translate into Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I think it's a shame and a shame not to support this decision. This time. And the second. I call on all the deputies to enter the Crimea Platform and start an active job that is long overdue on the situation in Crimea. What's more, I remind you, the Russians started a meeting called their other Crimson Platform called "Friends of Crimea", abroad in the 17th year, and gathered a lot of international partners that support them. Let us conquer it in this war. The Voice faction is definitely in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u48	All those who wish to speak? Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u49	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, the "Trust" Group will support this decision. Crime is Ukraine. But I would like to point out what they have done for the people who have moved to a peaceful Ukraine from Luhansk and Donetskina and Crimea. Nothing in seven years! Unbuilt housing, children are in need, and they cannot enter kindergartens and schools. People are paid 400 dollars a month if they work if they don't work, 800 dollars a month. Can you live for 800 bucks, please? With these tariffs, people get in the loop. Today, people use 20 degrees Fahrenheit [20 ° C] to go to bed, and pathologists say they're just cooled off. Yeah, maybe there's something in the head that's been passed on by the A-class officials and politicians? I am addressing the President today once again in the head of the military and civilian administrations of Lugansk and Donetsk, who are robbing these areas without MPs. The only money manager is the head of the military-civil administration. Billions Stolen! Immediately remove and bring to justice, punish and plant!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u50	All those who wish to speak? Prepare for the vote, please. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals of the Committee and the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the United Nations, the governments and parliaments of the world on the condemnation of the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, violations of human rights and freedoms in the temporarily occupied territories and the release of political prisoners, Ukrainian citizens (registration No. 4655). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:37:08]] For 314 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. "People's Servant" – 212, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 25, "Fatherhood" – 22, "Party for the Future" – 17, "Voice" – 15, "Trust" – 14, "non-factional" – 9. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on Prevention, Reduction and Control of Industrial Pollution. He'll report. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote [[11:37:57]] For 241 Decision taken. The Minister for Environmental Protection and Natural Resources, Abraham’s Romani Romanovich, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u51	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration by the government, the Law 4167 on the Prevention, Reduction and Control of Industrial Pollution is being passed. I'm not going to read a long text, I'm just going to say that this bill on our clean and safe environment, maybe not for us, but for our children in the future. This is a bill on the introduction of modern European farming principles. This is a bill on the introduction of the most modern available technologies used in Europe, where air is an achievement we have not yet dreamed of: clean air, clean water, clean soil, waste management. This law proposes to simplify the authorisation procedure by reducing the so - called three in one, reducing the number of permits from three to one. By this law, we want our people, our Ukrainians, to be able to live in a clean and secure environment, so that businesses can be competitive in European markets, so that no trade barriers can be applied to them, so that people can have in the future, at least in the future, because the law is implemented over a fairly long period, there are 7 to 12 years, so that even in this perspective people can have a clean and secure future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u52	Thank you. It is given to the author of an alternative bill, the national deputy of Ukraine, Marousek Oleg Romanović. Please, Oleg Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u53	Good day to you all! Dear colleagues, as one of the authors of the alternative bill, I ask not to support Bill 4167, because it contains a number of critical negative norms. This is a very short period of time for environmental modernisation, just four years. While the EU countries have been modernising in a similar way for several decades. The possibility of delaying the transition to the new environmental standards laid down in the bill does not work because of the lack of order. It's just an additional corruption opportunity for the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The bill foresees that the best available technologies and management methods that will determine border discharge standards are approved exclusively by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, although this is the level of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And only this level will allow you to have a predictable regulatory field for Ukrainian businesses. The bill contains regulations on issues related to the integrated permit, under the basic laws of Ukraine "On the Free System in the Field of Economic Activity" and "On the Basic Principles of State Oversight (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity". That's not right. We must have standardised rules and procedures for all the permits and control processes in Ukraine, not to "fertilize" under each document a new law with its process. And this is only part of the critical norms that are present in Bill 4167. The comments could not be worked out between the first and the second readings, so I propose that Bill 4167 be returned to the committee for further elaboration and that we use the best proposals in the alternative bill 4167-1, which already take into account all the comments and prepare a quality and really useful one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u54	Thank you. The word is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use by Marikovsky Alexander Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, today we are on the verge of adopting a unique bill that will allow our children to breathe clean environments so that there are no more than 50,000 deaths created from various types of diseases that cause air pollution. The Committee on Environmental Policy and Use considered draft laws on prevention, reduction and control of industrial pollution, 4167 and 4167-1 alternatives. The 4167 registration bill provides for the establishment of legal and organisational principles for preventing, reducing, controlling and eliminating environmental pollution resulting from industrial activities, establishing the only integrated permit; identifying activities that require an integrated permit; requirements for the application of the best available technologies and management methods; monitoring of discards; and monitoring of operators who have obtained an integrated permit. In order to introduce an integrated permit, the bill provides for amendments to legislation on State surveillance in the field of environmental protection and environmental protection. According to the Ukrainian Integration Committee, the bill does not conflict with the European Union; 4,167 does not conflict with Ukraine’s obligations under the Association Agreement and Directive 2010/75 on industrial discards. The Committee believes that, by all the shortcomings of the bill, which is pointed out, inter alia, by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy, the National Anti-Corruption Agency, it is possible to further elaborate on comments and proposals. Please support the bill as the conclusion of our committee, Bill 4167, on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. It's only a request: those who are recorded "for" are to say "for" and those who are recorded "against" are to say "against" and preferably on the subject of the law. Please. The word is given to the people's deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the political party, the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u57	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Suffrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u58	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u59	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Fifth Column, you say, yes? Well, I have a question. When we were entrusted with responsibility for the territorial integrity of the country, for the economic and social situation in the country, Crimea was controlled by Ukrainian authorities, such as Donetsk and Lugansk, by the way. And when, unfortunately, my great regret, Ukraine lost control of Crimea, I can tell you, the Russians didn't buy me a shipbuilding plant in Crimea, and under the auspices of the Russian Federation Navy, they didn't take a private yacht out of Crimea, and tens of millions of dollars of dividends for selling candy didn't pay me either. And all of this happened between 2015 and 2019 at the Poperednik, and I say again, "Poperednik." So, Your Honor, don't look where you are, because who we have is the fifth column, it's going to take a very long time to figure it out. And I was hoping that your successors would do that in a few months, but unfortunately, they also want to turn into you. So today I stand firm: everyone has to be responsible for what he does. And if there were any conspiracies, that's what the whole country should know. So please refrain from any accusations of our political power. Today, our judge is God and the people of Ukraine. And the people of Ukraine have already said their word: "servants" and the predecessors of people no longer like, people want to live as they did with us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u60	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. It was your position for this law, did I get it right? The word is given to the National Deputy of the Synth of Oleg Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u61	This was a self-critical performance of the fifth column of Ukraine and Crimea. But I'm going to talk about it, and I'm going to ask the chairman to keep making sure that the speakers speak on the subject. So this is the bill. Of course, we would not be happy to support this bill, but we will support it in the first reading with great hope that it will be finalized. Why? Because this bill actually proposes to grant permits instead of licenses, it doesn't give a clear term as to what an operator is. I don't know what it is that allows an integrated permit, which is what this permit is for. In accordance with the Act on the Allowance of a document of a permissive nature to which this integrated permit applies, such documents should be issued in accordance with the law for the implementation of certain measures. From this point on, permits for the special use of water resources, fish - management facilities, and damage to well - being. What is proposed by law to be considered an integrated permit is a license for inexplicably what. In fact, the bill actually refers to hidden licenses. According to part nine of article 4 of the Bill of Conduct, the activities listed in article 2 are prohibited until an integrated permit is obtained. So an integrated license, as you can understand, gives us the right to do certain kinds of work. However, the granting of a special right to engage in certain activities is called licensing, and this law is thus contrary to the basis of great Ukrainian legislation. There is no specificity here on the issues addressed by the directive. There is nothing about special conditions for combustion plants, emission limit values from such environments, and regulation of underground storage of carbon dioxide. In other words, in the first reading, we will support it, but we will ask both the committee and the public organizations that worked on this law together with us to work on it effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u62	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, the Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u63	Anton Polyakov, Montenegro, MP for the Future. Dear colleagues, on the one hand our country is trying to sell to some investors. A year ago, our Mr. Arahamaya in Davos told us that there are billions of investments waiting for us, Milovanov told us about it yesterday. On the other hand, we do nothing for our industry, for our businesses. On the one hand, in order to implement the so-called Big Construction program, or as the people call it, big theft, illegal asphalt concrete factories are built in the east, which make huge wastes, including into an atmosphere where garbage dumps don't work, which don't process this garbage that doesn't work illegally and doesn't even have original documentation. And on the other hand, we're putting this bill into the hall, which actually hurts and strikes our industry, our businesses that are now working in Ukraine, who don't need any investment or any taxes from the President's Office, they just want to work. And these fines that you want to immediately introduce to our industry, they're even more gaining our economy. Do something for our business first, and then enter your sanctions and so forth. If you want to deal with environmental protection, deal with the forest as our Mr. Zelensky shouted, "Get out of here, thief," and threatened everyone even more. Or get rid of the rivers that Dnipro or Desna will soon be able to cross on foot. Deal with these problems, deal with corruption, and then touch our businesses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u64	The word is given to national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u65	Please pass the word Vasilko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u66	National MP Vasilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, the decline in industrial pollution is primarily about improving the quality of life of Ukrainians here on our home land. This is a step toward clearing the air, water, and soil. This is a step that the EU countries have taken decades ago and that we also need to take to make sure that Ukrainians can live as in Europe and that the country can move in that Euro-integration path that is registered in the Constitution of Ukraine. And there's nothing wrong with business in this bill. Yes, the bill actually applies to all areas of production: industry, agriculture and energy. And, yes, there is a requirement to shift the power of enterprises to the best available technologies available in the relevant fields, rather than to continue to work in the normal order in the old emergency capacity, which has led our country to lead the world’s anti-ratings by the number of premature deaths associated with air pollution and anti-rejectings where the population does not have access to drinking water. Colleagues, such requirements as those laid down in this bill for business, should be considered primarily as incentives that will finally allow for modernization and greening of production. However, the bill provides adequate transitional periods for these processes. The only thing that really is the second reading is things that need to be worked out and clearly defined at the level of law. First of all, it is the responsibility to implement national plans to reduce emissions from large combustion plants that will allow for cleaning, to install filters at TEC and TEC, which are the biggest pollutants today. Secondly, it's a legislative requirement to deal with titanium waste. Taking into account the need to clarify certain provisions and bring them into line with special sectoral laws and to bring the standards of Ukrainian best available technologies closer to European technologies, the Voice will support this bill, but only in the first reading, and we will work on the second reading. We urge you, colleagues, also to support 4167 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there'll be someone else, won't there?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u69	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we have never doubted that we should all be concerned about the country's environmental problems and this is really our future. But when we're making another corrupt dining room under beautiful slogans in order to, excuse me, heal or trim any enterprise that today barely survives, that medium, that big, small, we can't support this bill even in the first reading and we're proposing to send it to work. Regrettably, this bill is well - meaning, and it introduces conditions for corruption. He gives a discretionary authority -- someone to give permission, someone not to give permission, someone to define criteria. He gives a very limited deadline for resolving this problem. Friends, don't ever forget that now that we're with you in this room, there are absolutely specific industries operating somewhere, paying taxes, paying wages, and we can't have them destroyed. I urge you to listen to this, my friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u70	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! This week in the Supreme Council, we finally made it to the environmental park. And this bill, it allows us to implement Directive 75/EC. And this is really a step towards meeting people and the next generation with regard to a safer and cleaner environment. Of course, there are some shortcomings here, and they need to be developed for second reading, especially the comments made by the anticorruption committee. But there are really effective mechanisms for modernizing heavy-duty industries. Of course, industrialists, the chemical industry against the need to modernize, need to invest money. But we have to understand that this is the EU course, the U.S. course, the green course, and here, you know, in the future these investments in modernization are going to have an economic advantage. Because companies that export their products to EU countries already cross the border, they are forced to pay additional payments. And that's what they're going to have to do, both agriculture and industry, if they don't take clean technology into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u72	Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, you don't even need to get acquainted with the text of the bill, you just have to see the name of this bill, about preventing industrial pollution. This bill, I'm not afraid of that word, it's some kind of water section. The watershed between what we came to the Supreme Council: protecting the population of Ukraine and the people's interests, which are affected by the excessive pollution of our atmospheric air, our years, our soils, or we support our industry. So let's pick which side we're on. And as for industry, I would like to tell you, please consult with your assistants and see if they will be introduced to these companies Carbon border adjustment mechanisms according to the Green Deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, all who have spoken, let us go to the vote. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Prevention, Reduction and Control of Industrial Pollution (Registration No. 4167). Please support and vote. [[11:58:53]] For 221 The decision is not taken. I am voting for the proposal to refer to the Committee for Re-reading the draft Law on Prevention, Reduction and Control of Industrial Pollution (Registration No. 4167). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:59:31]] For 277 Decision taken. 12:00. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, we begin our work. Invite the national deputies to the hall. An important bill. Denise Anatolyovich! Doesn't matter? You are invited to consider the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on increasing liability for individual traffic security offences (registration number 2695). It is suggested that, more faithfully, the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the law enforcement of Bakumov, Alexander Sergiyovich, be invited to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I know you'll insist on Bakumov's work. I see Kunick. Dear colleagues! Med, Froll, Kunicki, Bakumov, Mamka. How many lines do you have, Gregory Mikolayovich? Two? Three orders? Two minutes? 23 requisitions? We won't. Or maybe there's 23 voting tickets? [[B in m in s a l in]] By the rules. We have everything under the Rules, you know. I am grateful that you support this position of mine. Maybe it's a performance. Then give me the license numbers, please, that you insist on. Vlasenko, Cimbaluk. Knyazevitch, how many rights? How many will you insist on? Three minutes, yeah, how did we talk? Three minutes. Let's start with you then. Then we'll start with Bakumov. Okay, then we'll start with Mommy. Amendment number 8. The committee is not supported. Fuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out, in fact, that this law, when we see T-shirts, that someone decides, does not solve the problem of driving alcohol. My editorial says that there is currently an article 21 in KUPAP, and that there is a violation of the traffic rules that provide for responsibility, the Administrative Code. There is an institution to hand over to the public organization and to the labour community. I propose to rule out this stereotype of the Soviet Union. And in fact, my position is simple: there is a violation – there must be responsibility. But how do we make sure that we don't have a control mechanism, or an authority to control, or how the person who is subject to an administrative engagement is being punished?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u77	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u78	Your Honor, you are proposing to exclude article 21 of the Code of Administrative Violations. This bill was not intended to deprive the possibility of bringing responsibility to the attention of the public organization itself or the labour community and would result from changes to many, many parts of the criminal offence. But I would like to point out that Bill 2695 contains a position that, for example, cases of administrative offences under article 130 KUPAP, i.e. the management of a motor vehicle in a state of alcohol or other drunkenness, cannot be referred to a public organization or a labour group. This is exactly what this article says. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u79	I'm betting on the vote number 8 of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:39:25]] For-84 No revision supported. Amendment No. 18 of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u80	I would like to pay attention to the rapporteur for this important bill and point out that, aside from the 130s, you have introduced another article of the Administrative Code - 122. In fact, I'm saying that the institute, it doesn't have to exist, it doesn't have to exist, it doesn't have to be passed on, because there's no control body and there's no mechanism that's going to see how the citizen who committed the administrative offence is being rehabilitated. Amendment 18, in fact, says that we add and propose to introduce only 7 articles that provide for the possibility of being relieved of administrative responsibility with little delinquency. And the footnote just regulates the 7 articles. Well, I'm sorry, what crime, if it's an offence, is minor? We forbid it, and the articles we will follow in the future, note, add again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u81	We can vote. That's 18 percent. Unfortunately, the committee did not support Mamka’s revision. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:10]] For 109 The decision is not taken. 43 revisions, as well as Mamas.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u82	The bill proposes to expand, extend, and increase sanctions for article 30 of the KUPAP. Previously, there was essentially a limitation of the right and the deprivation of the right for three years, but for the time being, the bill is being proposed, notice the unspent part of the seizure and increase the term to 10 years. But I want to point out that the person in this story as attracted to the administrative responsibility is absolutely nothing. There may be punishment. But what form of administrative responsibility in the execution of punishment? In my opinion, three years is a sufficient time to rehabilitate the person who committed the misdemeanour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u83	I'll bet you a vote, it's a very important 43. Yeah? Unfortunately, the committee is not supported again. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:47]] For-99 The decision is not taken. Fifty-seven axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u84	Regulation 57. It is rejected by the committee, but the project proposes changes to article 38 of the KUPAP and re-establishs an elevated specific term for such attraction with regard to punishment. For the time being, one can be held accountable for one year. We're increasing these terms. And if we compare administrative responsibility with criminal justice, we're given a term of two months to investigate criminal conduct, and we're under administrative responsibility for one year. I'm sorry, you have to start by setting up the work, setting up the deadlines for everyone to do their job. Those who fail to do so need to be called to account or simply expelled from those controlling bodies entrusted with this function. Please support and vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u85	Ready to vote? Fifty-seven Mommies. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:44:21]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 91 revision, it's taken into account editorially. Oh, no? How so? Edited. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u86	Nevertheless, when you look at the 91, notice that if a driver or a road user exceeds a defined speed of more than 50 kilometers, we suggest that we apply an administrative fee of 3,000 and 400 dollars. I apologize, and what is the limit between 50 (plus 20 - 70), for what responsibility is administrative as 250 dollars a fine, and 30 kilometers another 3,000 400? In my opinion, it is essentially necessary to change and reduce or work out the criteria. For example, 70 kilometers, 50, 100, 120, 200, and make a limit on the fine, then that's true. A hundred miles [20 km] won't solve anything in this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u87	91st, it was edited. The author insists on taking full account. I'm voting on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[12:46:09]] For 114 This progress is 114. We're moving a little bit. It's been taken into account in an editorial way. 145 of Mama's turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u88	And I think the amendment says that we need to take other mechanisms to address this problem. This amendment says that leaving the scene of an accident is increasing the fine to 3,000,400 dollars. I suggest, if the accident is done, it's up to those who could leave the scene of road traffic events, and they'll leave. But you have to be correct: (a) fix and then take measurements of the traffic. And three thousand and four hundred dollars for leaving a traffic ticket, which is disproportionate to the traffic incident itself, the fine, which is much less, needs to be worked out. And my offer is 850 dollars a fine to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u89	I'll bet you 145 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:47:49]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Next is number 155, partially counted. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that some of the regulations are taken into account editorially or partially, but there is one "but." We are responsible for not providing drivers with other documents. You can imagine, the law provides for every driver to carry a driver's license with him: first, a driver's license, second, a passport, i.e. the right to dispose of property, and medical assistance. But in addition, a police inspector or a road police officer may ask you for another document. For example, if you leave the living room, the papers from the living room, or the expert's conclusion that they're not beaten, and everything else. How many more papers does it take for the police to start working? It's like "others" are Ukrainian citizens, a similar story.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u91	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee disagrees with this position because we do not increase the number of documents to be presented to the police. But today other documents can be, for example, permission to transport dangerous goods, contract to buy a new car, when it moves from the living room to registration, it can be a customs declaration and all the documents already provided for in the current legislation. So please don't manipulate this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u93	Ready to vote? 155 revisions, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:50:15.]] For 105 The decision is not taken. 217 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u94	I'd like to go to the National MPs, open the text of the bill, and the words "other documents" are there. If "other documents," you just have to call it "documents," not give you a passport, a legal and a medical certificate. God be with him. I want to make a note of 127 revisions. The main bills that amend article 127 KUPAP are the two bills: 2694, 2696, 2697 -- which essentially went along with the bill. They were adopted in the first reading, forgotten about them, and all three bills amend article 127. I want to point out, what's the problem with a turbot that interferes with the quality of the 127th and not with other bills to make such changes? Please support the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u95	I'm betting on the 217th National MP's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:47]] For-97 The decision is not taken. 224th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u96	We came up with article 130, "Driving a vehicle in an unsettled state." The position of the committee is to increase fines and fines. My amendment says that the fines offered by the committee are 17,000 dollars. Note: 17,000! Whoever paid before will pay. My bill says that the fine goes from 34,000 dollars to 51,000 dollars. Part two. I suggest that if a person has re-indulgenced in alcoholic beverages, detained, properly documented, predict the confiscation of a means of transport. This is a real fight against drunkenness, not a fine of 17,000 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u97	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u98	The committee's position is to reject the amendment. Not to be overlooked, it's partly accounted for, Gregory Mikolaiovich. And for the first part, so that there's no removal of the vehicle, it's projected for repetition, especially in the second and third parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u99	224, partially counted. The author insists on taking full account. I would like to vote on the author's proposal, please identify and vote. [[12:53:36]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 258. Mama's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u100	Dear national MPs, you can increase fines, you can bet on the old mechanisms of those road users, but you have to pay attention to a position that was six months ago, a year ago, and you can compare it to a video fixation. Let's enter a video fixation -- the road mortality is going to decrease. Enter video fixation. Is Mortality Declined? No, it's not. It's been a year and we come to the conclusion again: let's try to increase the fines for all road users -- and this problem will go away. I want to point out that Ukrainian citizens and road users are not "substantial rabbits," and other mechanisms need to be applied to ensure that there is no irreparability of punishment in order to be preventive work, and then mortality will decrease. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u101	258. Amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee is not supported, as I understand it. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:18]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Next line is 264, Mommy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u102	My amendment 264 refers to and is linked to Regulation 91, which I have proposed to the 122 committee, which is recommended by the committee, to put in a different edition, which I have already mentioned, not to fill in other parts. There's a comparison to be made. If there is an article and it does not work until the end after its disposal, note, not the sanction, but the disposition, it is necessary to make a decision on the disposition, to clarify or modernise the disposition and then to make decisions on the sanctions. I'd really like to pay attention to that. Not to be complemented by new parts that contradict each other and, in fact, as a result, the work of this article will not take place and, in fact, no action will be created. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u103	258. Right. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. 264, I'm sorry. 264th. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:55]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Grigory Mikolayovich, support is dropping. Maybe we could just put the whole thing together in a single speech, if you don't mind? Let's do five minutes and five ballots. Do you mind? 267th. Five minutes. Please turn on Grigori Mikolaiovich Mama's microphone. Thank you very much for your constructive position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u104	There's something to add, come on. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we can come up with a problem and fight it on our own. The job of a parliamentarian is to: (a) vote by pressing the green button, analyze or hear it, analyze the situation on the roads; (b) analyze the situation in which the law enforcement authorities entrusted with the powers to do so had mechanisms to ensure the safety of road users; and (c) what they lack, someone lacks reform, someone lacks legislative initiative, or everything else. Without considering these three aspects, I believe that the national MP cannot conduct himself morally on the slogans that are being proposed. Like what? Article 130 — increase a fine of 17,000 dollars, the drinking will not stop. Because, as practice has shown, video fixation doesn't help anything, there's a mortality on the road, it's in a large amount. In my opinion, the introduction of new articles into the Criminal Code. For example, if you pay attention, there is article 286 of the Criminal Code. And new in law, we're proposing a new article in the Criminal Code, 286 with a badge 1. It's the same position of the article, but we're adding "a state of drunkenness." Well, I want to give you an example from practice. For example, a person who was in a state of drunkenness was involved in a traffic accident foreseen in article 286. There is a burdensome situation that is also provided for by the Criminal Code: alcohol abuse. But if there's a qualification of 286, part one, it won't be a burdensome circumstance that will open the court to the slugbaum to apply article 75 and apply the time-limit for the execution of the sentence. Notice, partial execution, in general, other procedures that restrict or deprive decisions about keeping in custody or actual deprivation of liberty. I have a question: Are we helping drunkards drive or are we helping with a new article? The mechanisms are all regulated, the mechanisms are all known, all we have to do is end this interesting reform, all we have to teach the law enforcement agencies, the judicial branch of power to give the opportunity to be the mechanisms of application, and to pass the faithful judgments. Hard to punish, and without the authority and ability to escape, to avoid responsibility for such difficult things, then it will be true. The new article does not lead to or lead to anything. But the increase in fines, at first I thought that if, in part, the repertoire, or the key moment, the time to raise the fines, they should be logical. So what's the logic between 250 bucks and 3,000 400? There's absolutely nothing. What responsibility, then, should there be? No one can tell how these fines will affect road safety. And I'll say more: The more fines, the more bribes. It's on the roads, it's not gone. I'd like to pay attention to the deputies. I'm not going to support this bill personally because it won't solve the problem, and again in a year we're going to tell the citizens of Ukraine that we've changed something, but that's something that didn't help, let's do something else. I'm for a quality bill. I'm ready to work. But so that every owner of the vehicle has the opportunity to do traffic. a special service to enable a citizen to ask three questions. Question number one, who was driving? Question number two is to pay the fine. Question number three is to sue the court. Unfortunately, there is no option for Ukrainian citizens. Please put all the amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u105	Do you want all the editing? I'll bet you 267. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. 267th. [[13:02:53]] For-96 The decision is not taken. 270 lashes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:11]] For-95 The decision is not taken. 283 readjustment. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:30]] For-92 The decision is not taken. 290th. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:46]] For-94 The decision is not taken. 302nd. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:03]] For-94 The decision is not taken. 334 lashes. Partially counted. Please identify and vote. Wait, stop the vote. I'm betting on the author's motion not to consider this amendment. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:33]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. It's 414. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:54]] For-90 The decision is not taken. 425 axle. Partially counted. The author insists on taking full account. I'm putting the author's proposal to a vote. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:16]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. 500 revisions, rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:33]] For-95 The decision is not taken. 529 revisions. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:51]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. 589 revisions. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. 589 revisions. [[13:06:11]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 603 revision, extreme revision of the Mamka People's Deputy. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:33]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. He's a healer. Turn on the Medici microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, there is a 573, which has offered preventive stoppages to the car to take action to combat drunken driving. This amendment was supported by the committee, but it's a very controversial amendment. And that's why I want to put it on confirmation and offer it to my colleagues until this decision is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u107	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, this is a matter of prevention, i.e. groundless transport to the police. It was foreseen by the committee's administration that it was possible during the night, from 22:00 to 8am, on holidays and holidays, and on weekends. The committee decided on this point to take it into account. However, once we have communicated with the factions, with the committee, we will not insist on this direction and ask that we determine what you think.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u109	I mean, I understand correctly that the committee supported it, but the logic in the Medici's words is, right? I'll bet you a vote on the right number 573. The committee took her into account. But I'll put it to a vote, please. 573. [[13:08:38]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! Given that this is rejected, we went back to the first-reading text, and the first-reading text predicted a prevention stop for everyone at any time. Therefore, it is suggested that the amendment number 588 of the Bacumov People’s Deputies should be taken into account and that a preventive stop should be excluded from the text of the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, we have now to clean up. Did I get the committee's position right? To clean up the "full prevention stop," right, yes, you have to support the editing of Alexander Sergiyovitch Bakumov, and then the prevention stop will be removed from this law, right? That's right. I'm betting on the vote number 588 of the people's representative of Bakumov. She was rejected by the committee. But it makes sense, doesn't it? Please support and vote. 588 revisions. [[13:10:10]] For 351 Kunick.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I think it's very nice today to see the folly of everyone who has submitted this bill to the Supreme Council. Because I have no words, I just want you not to support this bill. Because we do not solve the issue: We do not solve the issue of driving drunkards. This bill has, in fact, expanded the rights of the police. If we accept this bill, we are completely. I know it's very good that the IMF likes to talk about how drivers react to police, but we see how the police treat drivers every day. And there's more to it. If this bill were good, I think the drafters would have found the power to go out on the street where people gathered today and explain why they really think this bill is right. I ask you to support me, but the bill does not vote in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u113	575 axle. The position of the committee? Maybe we shouldn't? Maybe you shouldn't. It's not supported by the committee. Well, please tell me the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, considering that Alexander Kunicki had taken a powerful part in the work of the preparatory groups, and yet he was proving to us that the prevention stop would be a waste, and proving it thoroughly, he had an amendment of 575, which he now insists on putting to the vote. It is identical in content. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u115	Look, I'm sure Alexander Kunicki will vote for the law then. 575 Kunick's right. It's not supported by the committee. But the committee's position was just bugged. Ready to vote? 575 axle. Please support and vote. [[13:12:32]] For 351 Decision taken. Edit 575 Kunick is included. Next thing you know, Frolow. Amendment number two. Why don't you give me two minutes and we'll put four votes? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, then one amendment is two, and then one minute is three votes. Right? Edit No. 2 of Frolov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, this is an important amendment asked to be supported by the Association for Local Self-Government. What are we talking about? More than three years ago, the Ukrainian Parliament allowed photofixion and accountability for violations of parking, parking, and parking regulations for parking inspectors. But now, for the parking inspectors, for the boards and phones they use, there is a need to protect information, i.e. the KSI is needed for the system and for these phones and tablets. This isn't even happening when a death row is being developed by an expert criminalist. I'm asking you to support the edit and cancel the KSI requirement for phones and tabletes used by parking inspectors. I remind you that this is supported by the Association for Local Self-Government. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u117	Amendment number two. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u118	The committee rejected the amendment. Yet, in view of the preceding discussion, we do not insist that it be rejected. To the halls, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u119	Alexander Sergiyovich, as a reporter, you do not insist, but the position of the committee is slightly different. I'll bet on the vote for Froll's amendment, number two. She was rejected by the committee. However, the position of the committee. You just heard the reporter. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:14:53]] For 297 Decision taken. Edit included. The next three revisions are 137ths, 412ths and 226ths of Frolov. One minute -- and then we're going to put the votes on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I will not require you to put these motions to a vote, but I want to say and ask everyone to uphold this law. In fact, there are road wars in Ukraine: every 3 minutes there are traffic accidents in Ukraine, every 15 minutes there are traffic accidents in Ukraine, and every 2.5 hours there are deaths in Ukraine. For example, in the 20th year, 50 military personnel were killed in the ATO and 70 times more were killed on the roads, 3.5 thousand Ukrainians. We see that 3 percent of all accidents are recorded as being caused by drunk drivers. That is, if you travel along the Brovarsky Avenue to the Metro Bridge, you will meet 30 drunk drivers, taking into account the statistics. Many of these Fae Bills, for example, will be fixed in the bushes of TruCAM by police officers. This does not match because installation is provided.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u121	Don't you insist on voting? Thank you. The following revisions are 122, 483, 597. He's a pain in One minute, and we can vote. One minute. Stepa, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u122	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I think everyone in this room agrees that there is a need to fight the amount of traffic that happens through drunk driving. But we also all understand that there are certain rules in this bill that do not apply at all and that need to be cleaned. One of them -- about prevention stops -- we've already cleaned up by voting for one of the previous rights, and that's very good. But there are two other standards that I think we need to clear. The first one is 483. It is suggested that the inspector’s right simply be removed from the vehicle when stopped. I believe that this possibility can only lead to the abuse of this possibility, and it does not solve any problem of driving alcohol. And the second. Now we have the next fine for an increase of 50 kilometers per hour is 510 dollars. The bill in effect proposes a fine of 3,000,400 dollars for each violation. This is more than half the minimum wage for one violation. I think that this amount is overstated and you need to set such a compromise figure -- that's 1 thousand 700 dollars for every violation. I think that these two amendments need to be supported, and then, in principle, this bill can be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I'll bet you 122 votes. It's rejected by the committee. The position of the committee on these three lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u124	Dear Chairman, the committee has rejected these amendments. I don't think this argument is enough. However, during the discussion between the work and the committee and the subcommittee, the driver’s duty to get out of the car at the request of the police officer did not create any contradictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u125	I'll bet you 122 votes. The committee is not supported. Please vote. [[13:18:54]] For 282 Decision taken. 483 axles. The committee is not supported. Please vote. [[13:19:17]] For 280 Decision taken. Edit included. 597. The committee is not supported. I'll put her to the vote, please. [[13:19:41]] For 256 Decision taken. Edit included. Then there's 484 revisions. A duck. You're up, 484.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u126	All right, now, one second. Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Let's start with 484. The bill states that we have to get out of the vehicle. This is the norm, I suggest you rule it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u127	It was voted. I'm sorry to interrupt, but my colleagues are all tipping, and we've voted on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u128	Dr. Alexanderovich, 437 law enforcement, which provides that the police and military inspectors should be kept in the field of vision, safety of traffic, and so on. So I suggest we rule out this rule because it's illogical. And yesterday, when we had a political faction meeting, we discussed that it was mutually exclusive of other norms of this law. So I suggest you clear this rule with my license number 437.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u129	437 lashes. The committee is not supported. 437? Don't you mix things up? 437 lashes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:21:36]] For 180. The decision is not taken. What kind of papers are you going to insist on? 506th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, it is stipulated that when a vehicle is stopped at the request of a police officer, it is necessary to be in place before the appropriate order or requirement of a police officer. Are we a police state or what? So I suggest we rule that out. Please vote green and not turn Ukraine into a police state.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u131	I'll bet you 506 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:22:26]] For-191 The decision is not taken. 512 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the drafters of the bill are required to withdraw from the transport vehicle at the request of a police officer. So that's it again. They've already ruled it out, they call me colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u133	They've already ruled it out. Guys, listen to what's going on in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u134	I hear we're just having this lively discussion, maybe we didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u135	598th, say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u136	598 revisions provide that they can take preventive measures, are foreseen, and I predict the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u137	They're off. 612.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u138	I predict that if this is done, it is done on the basis of an organizational order, an act by the police director who is published on the official website.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u139	Alexander Anatolyevich, we've been cleaned up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u140	And what I'm suggesting is that if they do, if they do, if they do, they're published on the website.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u141	I'll bet you a vote of 598. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:53]] For-66 The decision is not taken. And your final revision is 612.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u142	612 revisions predict, in simple words I'll tell you what. It provides that all means of transport, including the car’s cameras, can be fixed without a polygraph. So what does this look like? That you're on your way, that there's a machine that doesn't have any identifying marks, it's got you locked up, and then they're handing over information to their police colleagues. They're stopping. Where's the evidence? So here's the evidence, we caught you earlier, and they're passing on this information. So I suggest that there should be appropriate identification marks for means of transport, if this is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u143	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, indeed, had a question of discussion. This is a question about the actions of a phantom car when, under cover, unpaved cars, in the right place with warning signs of appropriate auto-fixing of offences will stand along Ukraine's roadways. As of today, these phantom cars have been purchased by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This can't really be the basis for us to now approve the relevant bill. However, this was the practice of Western countries, and the committee’s colleagues decided to take this into account and support it. So it's suggested that we reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u145	I'm betting on a vote of 612 people's deputies, Kachura. It's not supported by the committee. Please vote. [[13:25:52]] For-182 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next. Yes, now Vlasenko - 3 minutes later. Oh, I'm sorry! Ustinov, 617 correct. Then there will be three performances.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, after my first reading, I took a very firm stand against this bill, but most of the things that actually expanded the mandate of the police were taken away. The key thing is, as far as stopping the vehicle was concerned, you and I cleaned up today. My 617 is left, which makes it impossible to abuse and restore the possibility, as you remember, that we used to have GAI with radars in the bushes. So I was asked to support this 617 issue so that we could have warning signs. If they're not there so they can't sit in the bushes with radars and catch our motorists. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u147	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u148	Respectful colleagues, the stated standard of what should be warning signs, are already contained in the corresponding article, part two, and have not undergone appropriate changes, and therefore it will work, and will act on the day after tomorrow. However, given that the law of the People's Deputy Ustinova 617 specified the definition in terms of terminology, the committee rejected the amendment, but after discussing it with the initiative group of the committee, we do not mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u149	I mean, you don't deny it as a reporter. I got it. I'm betting on the vote number 617 of the people's deputy Ustinov. The committee was not supported, but the position of the reporter was heard. Please vote. [[13:28:02]] For 347 Decision taken. Edit included. Next. Next three performances: Vlasenko, Knyazevitch and Cimbaluk. You didn't make it, Eutusek. What, two minutes? Wait a minute. Haircut, three minutes. Then we'll go to the vote. Haircut, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u150	Can I have a timer from the start?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u151	From the beginning, don't worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u152	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, you know, when discussing the previous bill, a colleague of the largest faction pointed out the following. He said it was a very nice name, so we don't have to read the contents of the bill, we vote for the title. You know, unlike you, we're gonna read every bill and not vote for names. This is a comment on the previous bill. As for the bill that we are discussing, the key word that should be in this bill is "balance." Should the authorization of the road police be increased to combat various types of traffic violations? Undoubtedly, yes, it has to be done, it's quite obvious. Because the Internet is flooded with video, when people who violate traffic rules, then trample on the police, don't follow their legal instructions, and so on, it's on the one hand. But on the other hand, of course, there must be a balance and there must be protection and protection of the rights of road users against the illegal actions of anyone who intervenes on any road user. So you have to keep the balance, and in part the adjustments this balance is saved. Next is the size of fines. The fines should be commensurate with two things: first with the offence committed and, unfortunately, with the welfare of Ukrainian citizens. I mean, unfortunately, not all of these requirements, not all of these ratios are used and implemented in the bill that we are currently discussing. It would certainly be necessary to discuss the transfer of portions of the money received from fines, local authorities, local authorities, so that they could provide road signs, road signs, the state of the road, and so on and so forth. In fact, this practice was in Ukraine, and it worked. Me, too. By the way, we're also discussing in this bill fines for parking. Why don't you tell me, what, are there enough normal parking in Ukraine? What, is it possible to park normally? So there has to be a balance here too. And the last. Please tell me, how many more times are the members of the profile committee going to say that the committee was against it, but "we've consulted and now we're in favour"? This may be evidence of a very low quality in the drafting of this bill, and it is not possible in principle to do so. Maybe it makes sense for the committee first to hold consultations, to determine its position, then to protect it at the right professional level, and not to use the phrase that "we were against it, and now we've consulted, and now we're in favour." And in fact, the most important changes were already supported by this room, so I ask you not to put my amendments to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u153	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please give the floor to the national deputy of Zimbaluku Mikhailovich. After that, Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Please, Mikhailovich, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u154	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable People of Ukraine! In fact, the bill is very important and relevant. This included the Ministry of Internal Affairs and colleagues from various factions of statistics. The statistics are terrible. But I agree with the previous speaker, Mr. Vlasenek's faction colleague: let's mention the bill before the first reading, and today it's a very different document. Initially, the authors’ attempt, as it were for me, to unify the European experience of high fines and the influence of the police of an entirely different state, not European, on road users. As a result, as for me, we get an almost balanced document. But there are, of course, a few questions. To such a tough bill on the liability of road users we have to talk about police co-responsibility for bringing offenders to justice. Today, under the walls of Parliament, representatives of Lvivščina came, including the victims of police violence. One of the applicants gives an example of how his National Police stopped him in Lviv on January 15th, and police officers have injured him, and there is no official investigation to date. Today I appealed to the deputy minister of the interior who was present in the hall, who promised to conduct a thorough examination of the facts that had been taught so that the guilty would be punished. But, dear fellows, let's be honest, has there been a reform of the National Police, or can those who have been trained for six months today be able to provide professional protection to Ukrainian citizens not only on roads, but in other difficult life situations? I know that the Ministry of Internal Affairs has taken a number of steps to increase the responsibility and training of the National Police, professional personnel, but Europe's example speaks of several factors. First. Reducing the human factor’s impact on the identification and accountability of road traffic violators. What is now being done is not just speeding, but crossing rules. Next thing. Dear colleagues, when we talk about bringing offenders to justice for gross traffic violations, such as reckless driving, there is clearly a need for strict measures. And we support that position. To be completed. The Fatherland faction, after today's rectifications on baseless road users' stops, what are the other things related to the exit of a road user, especially a driver, from a car at a stop, excuse me, what's the experience and what kind of state? We believe that this bill can become the law. And we wish the Ministry of Internal Affairs a successful continuation and completion of the reform on the preparation of quality police personnel and the entire National Police of Ukraine. This bill, I'm sure, will protect tens of thousands of Ukrainian lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u155	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Sergey Mikolayovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u156	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Very well, dear colleagues, that all the controversial standards of this bill have been removed. And that also applies to stopping vehicles and getting out of the car, which also applies to surface checks that should be carried out, in principle, by experts and experts from the Ministry of Internal Affairs or judicial experts. This also applies to stopping vehicles to check all aggregates because experts should also do so. I ask you to put to the vote, and you, Mr. Head, too, the Supreme Council, to find a logic in my amendment 533, which shows that we have instead of passing documents, as stated in the bill that bears witness to the person, and to write clearly: it has the right to ask the person to present documents that bear witness to the person. Please put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u157	533 lashes. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, this amendment is rejected, since the second reading text no longer provides for the transmission of documents to the police, this rule no longer changes. Therefore, it does not need to be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u159	Do you insist on voting? It's considered editorially. I'll bet you a vote. You have heard the position of the committee, and the author insists on taking this into account. I'm betting on the vote to take full account of number 533 of the national deputy Eutushka. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:57]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. Knyazevitch, three minutes. Then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u160	Thank you, Mr. Head. Frankly, I'm very sorry that I didn't get a word in the beginning when the discussion started. Then I would have had the opportunity to express myself more specifically on the lines. But, on the other hand, I am pleased that a large number of rights, including those that resonate with mine, have been taken into account today. And we actually have a slightly different draft of the bill than the one that was even prepared by the committee for the second reading. Although I am truly sorry that we have not been able to have a more thorough discussion around how we can address the goal that we had at the outset before the bill, namely, the reduction of road deaths. In my memory, many of the bills in this room have tried to resolve this issue, but they have not always reached their goal. And maybe we should have discussed how useful auto-fixing was in this case an auxiliary measure to achieve that goal. And it must also be admitted that it has not achieved its fullest success under different circumstances. Regrettably, what she has achieved, what she so much likes to hear from the National Police authorities, that she has achieved an increase in government budget revenues, was not her goal. From an ethical point of view, I don't think we should be very boastful about it. Because in a nation like this, fines have been called "tax for ordinary people." Why for the simple ones, because, I remind you, and a number of investigations, including journalists, clearly show that we have all the powerful, as well as the big businessmen, on cover numbers that aren't even fixed by a system of proper auto-fixion. For them, it's a different law, it's a different reality, and for the common people, it's a huge fine that's increasing. Yeah, now, thank God, we've counted the order, not by 3,000 400, but by 1 thousand 700. Believe me, for a simple man, 1 thousand 700 dollars is a huge sum. On the contrary, we had to think: What should the State do to prevent such a type of traffic violation? Do we really have all the main highways in the city with a special regime of more than 50 kilometers, as it was supposed to be, as it is in Europe? There are 50 miles [80 km] and in separate areas and above. Should it also be in areas outside the city where there is a special regime of 110, but should there be more where there are special protected areas of passage? But it's all a completely different story and a completely different discussion. At the same time, given that the laws that had the greatest threat to the bill were now taken into account, our faction would support this bill. And then we're going to see how it's going to be implemented in practice, and if we need to prepare for it, we're going to make complex changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u161	Did everyone express their positions? Another amendment, 599, the Monastery, and we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, dear friends, respected citizens of Ukraine! Now you and I have talked not only about remedies, we have talked to you about people’s lives, their health, and that each position of this bill will help to bring about the irreversibility of punishment. Today, half the drunkards behind the wheel are killers who drive along our roads and avoid liability. And that should end here and now. And I invite all of us to unite, all the factions, without defining the colors of the flags, to support this bill and show that the Supreme Council, the people of Ukraine, will fight the drunkards behind the wheel!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, indeed, were. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. In fact, a large number of rights were taken into account (I'm sure they were able to make this bill better) from different factions and groups. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase liability for individual road safety offences (registration No. 2695). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:43:25]] For 325 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show by factions. "The Servant of the People" – 208, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 17, "European Solidarity" – 21, "The Fatherland" – 22, "The Party for the Future" – 17, "The Voice" – 16, "The Trust" – 15, non-fractional – 9. Thank you, Your Honor. The next issue is the draft Act amending the Water Code of Ukraine to clarify the list of primary water users (registration number 3969). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:44:23]] For 246 Decision taken. The vice president of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environmental Use of the Scroll of Helen Volodymyrna is invited to attend. Give me four minutes from the committee and the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u164	Your Honorary Presidium, honourable members of the people, is proposed to you by the draft Act amending the Water Code of Ukraine to clarify the list of primary water users. It's a simple bill, but it's very important. Why? First of all, the Government of the State canals is strategically important for the economy and security of our country. Second, they're barely supporting hydrotechnological buildings, pumping stations and other energy-efficient equipment at this time. The reason for this is the financial deficit. The consequences can be dangerous. First of all, it's an increase in the risk of emergency situations, the cessation of water supply in various regions of Ukraine, the population of cities and areas. In doing so, primary water users — powerful enterprises today pay no money for water supply and water storage services. The bill proposes to amend article 42 of the Ukrainian Water Code to include the expansion of primary water users — from those who have their own watersheds to all those who receive water from canals, reservoirs, and water management systems. In addition, the proposed changes provide for a legislative solution to the issue of the obligation to make a reimbursable contract for primary water users with water companies. What will result from the adoption of the bill? According to previous estimates, the adoption of changes to the Water Code will allow for an increase in the budget of water - management organizations to 140 million dollars a year. At the expense of the costs, the channels will be able to upgrade pump stations, replace most of the old equipment, and make continuous water leaks to improve its quality. Appropriately, it can be argued that the proposed article 42 of the Ukrainian Water Code will strengthen the conservation of water resources and create financial preconditions for the restoration of the holding on Ukraine’s strategic sites. The Committee on Environmental Policy and Use at its meeting considered the draft Law with registration number 3969. The need for adoption of this bill is emphasized by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources, as well as by the Government of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office made a number of observations and noted that the draft law required technical and legal work to be done before the second reading when the bill was adopted. The Committee on Environmental Policy and Use stresses the urgent need to address maintenance issues in the proper functioning of water management systems. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council a draft law (registration number 3969) on the basis of the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u166	Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u167	Please give the floor to Mr. Yvchenk Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u168	Vadim Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u169	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, a very important law, especially that law, awaits those who work on irrigated lands. I have to say that Hersonian agrarians are exactly waiting for this law because they're not taking water from rivers, they're taking water from artificial water, like the Kahov water shelter. And, colleagues, if today the state does not allocate the cost of electricity, how can we support these buildings? It is very important for us today, colleagues, that we identify the primary water user. It is vital that the State control when issuing special permits, when water collection, and water reductions take place. It is vital that we do not have only 30 percent of our supply of water today. And the State Water Agency is already saying that it will limit water supply. Yes, drinking water will be sufficient, and what about irrigation in the same Hersonian region? So if the Soviet Union hadn't built this Kahov reservoir, Hersonian would have been a cot. Colleagues, it's very important that we support this bill, identify these primary water users, clearly control the issue of water discharge and even distribution of this water across different channels with large water. And finally, let's make sure that these water management buildings are under supervision and we really did from the government budget ensure their maintenance. "Paternity" will vote in the first reading and we will work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u170	Thank you. Please, Deputy People's Party Sukhov Alexander Sergiyyovich, Deputy Group "Trust". Bacunec Pavel Andryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u171	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". This bill is actually about renumbering primary water users. It's very short technically, but it's very important. Because today, according to the Water Code, users in our country are divided into two categories: primary and secondary. The first ones are those who have equipment and their own watersheds, and the second ones are their subscribers. In fact, this bill proposes that primary water users be divided into two categories: channel management and large enterprises. The latter are large enterprises, unfortunately, that do not pay the costs of channel management for providing water and filling different reservoirs, and this is done in order to evenly allocate water resources to all regions of Ukraine. In recent years, however, there has been insufficient funds to support the working condition of all hydrotechnological facilities in our country. And actually, at the expense of these costs, you can upgrade both pumping stations and other technical equipment. This, we believe, and I am one of the authors, will help to preserve, and in some cases restore, state property on strategic water objects in Ukraine. Therefore, we suggest that we support the bill in the first reading with further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u172	Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u173	Mr. Coltunovich, please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u174	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u175	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to pay attention to those who, of course, I see, have not read these bills and some even have the wisdom to comment on them. Well, look, first of all, article 42 of the Ukrainian Water Code defines "first and second-party users." Then, the 43rd -- the basic rights of water users -- are awarded up to seven points. Then it is the responsibility of water users that they can carry out and so forth. And a number of other measures. And 45 articles that clearly acknowledge their activities, how water is drained. However, when the previous speaker did tell you what it takes to get the money for modernisation, so I want to explain to you that the state regulation system for the modernisation of individual water systems, and this world practice, is tax incentives, in credit incentives. Let me give you some examples. For example, in the United Kingdom. We can see that in Britain there is a 100 percent depreciation rate for investment in water-supply-economy innovation. According to Polish experience, it's about exempting from tax rates on loans, what measures are being taken to modernize water supply networks, water-meliority sub-complexs, industrial water use systems and many other things. So these are complex factors that in no way reflect or correlate with this law. Therefore, in our view, it is necessary: (a) to implement existing legislation, and (b) to propose financial and economic preconditions for the modernization of the three sub-systems of the water management complex of Ukraine. Otherwise, we're not going to have a resource base or a fiscal stimulus and we're going to have a wet and crash water supply. And to the end. 95th place from 122 countries in the world, according to UNESCO, is the country's water supply level.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u176	Please, National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovna. Honcherenko Alexiyyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u177	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. We're now considering the draft Water Code Amendment Act, the primary water users. This is an important law, our faction supports its adoption in the first reading. But I want to talk about another very important water theme by moving away from the theme of water, namely, Crimea and water supply in Crimea. The point is that I, as a national deputy of Ukraine, have introduced the draft Law to the Supreme Council on the Prohibition, the Prohibition of Water Supply in Crimea, before the full depopulation of the peninsula. Unfortunately, this bill is still not being submitted to the session hall, and today is the time. You know perfectly well. You know how 60 percent of a person is made up of water, so today the occupied Crimea is 60 percent Russian military. And this violent militarization has led to the lack of water there, and this water is needed there today, and people. Well, of course, Putin's has one priority: military, not people who live there. So today the population is deprived of normal access to water. But this is an occupation problem, and according to all international laws, it is the occupying person who is responsible for providing all the needed people in the occupied territory. So the occupier who couldn't, how they told stories about pollinators, how they're destroying ecology today in Crimea, when they're opening up sources that are preserved decades ago when they can't provide people today, and there today in big cities water is supplied by 3-4 hours a day, they're trying to squeeze it out of Ukraine. You can't do that! No water, no help to the invader! Bring the bill to the hall, all the more now. This Saturday will be February 20th, which is drawn on the Crimea Liberation Medal. When did this operation begin? When Janukovic was still sitting on the bank. I'm talking about that angle. And we have to remember Crimea and defend it on these days. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u178	People's MP Vasilenko, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u179	Thank you, colleagues. In fact, the bill is very important, the Voice faction will support it, because in fact, Ukraine today is 127th out of 180 countries in the world in terms of drinking water and population security, and it's somewhere on the desert level of African countries. 270,000 Ukrainians out of 9 areas today are supplied with water only by means of imported water. And you know, it's not just statistics. When you cross the country from Opuchov, Ukraine, Korostosheva to Dubno, Rabbit and Stry, you can clearly see that there are problems with pipes everywhere, with water supplies, where these pipes are gold patches on a patch, where technical buildings work on their last breath. Changes are needed, changes are needed now. So we're definitely voting for it and we're going to be working on the second reading of some of the points that need to be worked out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there still willing to speak? Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, please. And then we move on to the vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, a really important bill, and our MP group will support it. But I want every Ukrainian who's looking at us right now to realize that at least all the opposition factions and MPs want to solve still important tariff issues. All the opposition MPs are "For the Future", "For the Future", "For the Future", "For the Future", "The EU", "Trust", and "The OPCW," all support the holding of an extraordinary meeting on tariffs. Except for "The Servant of the People," except for David of Arahamaia, who today told me very nicely that if these bills were put into the hall, they'd just be in the shit because they don't vote, and we'd be on horseback. Thus, David Arahami is blocking the holding and gathering of signatures for an extraordinary meeting to resolve a truly tariff issue for our population. Please publicly stop this shameful sabotage against the Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u182	All those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Water Code for Ukraine to clarify the list of primary water users (registration number 3969) Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:01:13]] For 324 Decision taken. The next issue of agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the renewal of public service contracts and other matters of public service (registration number 4531). At the rostrum is invited the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich. Who's going to insist on editing? [[B in m in s a l in]] Is that what you're supposed to do? No, who's going to insist? Nataluha, Skrum, Password, Black. Black, how many lines do you have? I see. Come on, it'll be faster. Is everyone in the room? What kind of work, Black? Turn on the microphone, please tell me you're not being heard. Dmitri Sergiyovich, turn on the microphone. Turn on the Black microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u183	15th and 18th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u184	15th, 18th?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u185	Yes, for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u186	15th, 18th. One minute of the show, and we're voting. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u187	That's enough for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u188	Come on. 15th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, now with this bill, we are all well aware of it, and these amendments propose to allow no more than three times to apply for a minister. I suggest you don't support this because twice is enough. We understand this person's name, which they're always trying to do, now it's the third time, we're going to propose, and these corrections have that name. So please, I ask my colleagues: 15 and 18 are not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u190	They're considered by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u191	I'm betting on the vote number 15 of the Black People's Deputy. She's a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u192	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u193	15 revisions. Oh, for the record, I'm sorry, Stryharski. It's counted by the committee. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:04:04]] For-188. The decision is not taken. Amendment number 18. Excuse me, number 18. Stryharsky too? Cornea. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u194	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u195	Counted. I'll put her to the vote. Please vote. [[14:04:34]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. It's a slogan.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u196	Mr. Head, I have four papers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u197	You're insensitive, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u198	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'd like to place on confirmation the 7th amendment and the 32nd amendment, and for my 40th and 49th amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u199	7th, 32nd?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u200	For confirmation, 40th, 49th, on the count.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u201	40th, 49th, on the count of. Okay. I'll bet you vote number seven. Please tell me. In turn, 7 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u202	In turn, so that everyone can hear what is going on, because the bill is extremely important and the amendments are also very important. 7 The amendment refers to the extent to which the responsibilities of ministers are extended, including the extension of these powers. What are we talking about, fellow believers? It is a matter of restoring a number of privileges, such as the appointment of first substitutes, the appointment of heads of state - owned enterprises. Dear national deputies of all factions, our Parliament has already decided, by voting in previous bills, which have become laws, that it is Parliament's responsibility to appoint members of the government, and despite Parliament we cannot move. Despite Parliament’s responsibilities, such broad powers cannot be exercised. It's a parliamentary control function. Please don't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u203	I'll bet you 7 votes. It's counted by the committee. Edit Stryharski. Please vote. Committee position? Give your position to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u204	It is counted because it is necessary for those who are fully qualified to give authority to those who perform the duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u205	I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u206	So he can make the right reforms in the ministry, for example, to start. Yes, the committee is accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u207	I'm betting on the vote number 7 of the Stryharsky People's Deputy. It's counted by the committee. Please vote. [[14:07:13]] For-188. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, 32 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u209	Edit number 32 of the Password.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u210	It's number 32. In the 8th paragraph of this amendment, this article was simply technically confused by paragraphs and wrote about the third, fourth paragraph, which refers to other paragraphs. Other standards of this article are preserved in other adjustments that have been taken into account. So I'm going to ask you not to support this amendment so I don't have to let the colossals go. There's a technical error with the paragraphs. No other problems. Once again, other features of this article are included in other amendments. So I'm asking you to vote with a yellow or red button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u211	32 revisions, not supported by the committee. I'm sorry, the committee is supported, do I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u212	Yes, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u213	It's counted. You heard the Lozinski position. I'll put her to the vote. Please vote. The committee is accounted for. [[14:08:43]] For-189 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Forty lashes, 49th. Why don't we just vote for a minute? One minute, please give it to Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, with regard to Amendment 40 and Amendment 49. They apply to terms in which competitions for civil servants should be fully held. There's nothing more permanent than temporary. And in this Parliament, when the appointment of ministers and the appointment of top clerks, and everyone else, temporarily without competition, talked about exclusive cases, exclusive cases. What did the government really do? More than 20,000 government officials were appointed. 150 civil servants of category "A" are assigned today without competition. The main text of the bill was four months to resume and hold all the contests. Now they want to continue and continue the age of ministers, government officials of category "A" and everyone else without competition. I ask you to shorten this term to two months.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u215	Both are rejected by the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u216	Yes, the proceedings are dismissed, because there is a position of the National Agency of Public Service, there are representatives. In such a short period of time, it is impossible to carry out quality, so it will be a campaign, not a competition.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u217	I'll bet you 40 votes. The committee is not supported. Please vote. [[14:10:35]] For 124 The decision is not taken. 49 of Lozinski's version. Please vote. [[14:10:53]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Nataluha.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u218	My colleagues, thank you very much. Considering that number 7 was not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u219	Wait. [[B in m in s a l in]] Cornea. The number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u220	10 lashes. Because we failed the 7th, I'm asking you to confirm the 10th, it's partially accounted for. It's almost congruent with the 7th, but there's some editorial nuances. This is again about giving full authority to the acting minister. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u221	I'm betting on 10 votes, it's partially counted. The author insists on taking full account?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u222	Yes, in full count.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u223	Please vote. [[14:11:57]] For 197 The decision is not taken. Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u224	My colleagues, thank you. Considering that number 7 did not find its support in the hall, forced to place 13th, it allows the executive to sign the budget information and other financial documents needed to pay salaries, including for miners and other workers. But I believe that the acting minister is a function that should ensure transit from one minister to another. And the Ministry can't get rid of state property and state-owned enterprises in the transit process. Thus, this law prohibits the performance of the functions laid down in article 8, paragraph 12-1, of the second part of the law. In addition, I think that every sentence in the right is to be considered a separate paragraph for technical and legal reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u225	If we don't have the others. 60 days, yes, here. It's 60 days again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u226	And 60 days?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u227	But those powers that the committee is against. The committee saw it differently, so he counted it in part. We've seen broader powers, once again: the appointment of deputy ministers, the first deputy and heads of state enterprises. But this is where the room decides.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u228	I'm betting on the vote number 13 of the national MP of Nataluha. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:14:06]] For 321 Decision taken. Edit number 13 counted. Thank you. Who else insists on editing? Princey. Klimpush-Cincadze, I saw. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u229	Thank you. I've got two changes. The first one is 33rd. The amendment suggests that competitions for posts that include persons with whom contracts for the provision of State services for the period of quarantine have been entered into before this law becomes effective shall be announced within one month of the date of entry into force of the law. Instead, the profile committee proposes a term of six months. If the purpose of the bill is to reinstate public service competitions, it is not clear why it is only a six - year announcement of a competition for appropriate positions of authority. Obviously, it is only an attempt to continue being in the proper positions of those appointed without competition. Therefore, I propose that the amendment be supported and that competitions be announced more quickly in appropriate positions of service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u230	Do you insist on voting? What's the number again?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u231	33.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u232	Thirty-three. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u233	And let's give one day to announce whether it's south or south. Let's put some realistic lines on. I understand opposition rhetoric has some boundaries, colleagues. Give me an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u234	A committee against him?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u235	Of course, it's a negative. It's impossible in a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u236	Edit No. 33 of the People's Deputy of Knieżicky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u237	It can't be done in a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u238	I'm betting vote number 33, not supported by the committee. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[14:16:14]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Next item. Do you have a warrant? Princey.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u239	Thank you. Fifty-two. According to an editorial proposed by the profile committee, contracts for the conduct of the public service during the quarantine period, put into effect by this law, operate until the appointment of the public service of the person as a result of the competition, but not more than 9 months from the date of entry into force of the law. Instead, the amendment proposes setting a three - month deadline. The main goal is to reinstate public service competitions. It is not clear, then, why preserve today’s situation when, among other things, the leaders of many public authorities have been appointed to be elected outside the competition for another nine months. Nothing prevents the authorities from quickly declaring the contests, conducting them, and appointing honest and professional persons elected for the competition. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u240	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u241	Overruled.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u242	I'm betting on the vote number 19. It's not supported by the committee. Right? Please identify and vote. No. 52. [[14:17:37]] For-88 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u243	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Please tell me the correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u244	It's number 37. Dear Mr. Alexander, report, as a person who has agreed with the European Union on a strategy for reform of government, I know exactly that the country is prepared to conduct quality competitions, the country has experts who are able to do so. So my amendment proposes that category "A" be renewed within a month. And I'm convinced that if we all really want to replace these positions for real professionals, we're going to support that. Please support the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u245	37th Amendment, Klimpush-Cincadze. The committee is not supported. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[14:18:50]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Stryharski, what adjustments? Klimpush-Cincadze, the number of editing?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u246	It's number 46. I hope, colleagues, that you will at least agree that the state is able to arrange for a category B and B competition within three months. And, I hope you confirm and support this amendment, please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u247	Forty-six axles. The committee is not supported. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[14:19:52]] For-99 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Everything? Two more revisions. Please turn on the Klimpush-Cincadze microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u248	No. 55. Colleagues, well, you don't want to run fast competitions. Perhaps you would agree that after you have conducted such contests, you do not want to cement the so - called temporary appointees into extraordinary conditions during COVID for additional periods of time. So what I'm suggesting is that in category "A" positions, these people, who are assigned on a temporary basis, can't last longer than three months. Please support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u249	Another number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u250	55.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u251	55 redundancies. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:21:10]] For-98 The decision is not taken. It's an emergency, Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u252	No. 63. Colleagues, already a very democratic right, just as you would like, still have their appointed so-called temporary representatives. In fact, it suggests that people in the "B" and "B" categories can't stay on a temporary basis longer than six months after you've held the competition. Can we at least support this exercise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u253	63 correct, Klimpush-Cincadze. The committee is not supported either. Please identify and vote. [[14:22:14]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Everything? Stryharsky, right number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u254	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Church, Andrew Stryharsky, 196th District. The main objective of Bill No. 4531 is the immediate restoration of public service contracts. I would like to point out that prior to the second reading, I and my colleagues had been given appropriate remedies to address the issues of the work of the Competition Commission, the features of the competition, the protection of civil servants from political releases, and so on. The report was supported by a profile committee. Colleagues, I urge each and every one of you to think and take care of the civil servants of all the chains, starting with the district government administrations, completing the selection of the best candidates for the highest positions. Let us work together to restore the stable functioning of public authorities and government officials. So I'm asking you very much to support this project, and it's very necessary. Colleagues, I hope for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u255	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. How many rights do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u256	Mr. Head, I'm sorry, my colleague Mamka has four alterations to the faction, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u257	Fuck. On all four, right, in turn? The numbers, please call. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u258	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u259	The number of the amendment, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u260	41st. Don't you have a chart, Dmitri Alexanderovich? 41st. Thank you. And you can put the timer back on again, because. Dear national deputies, I am listening to the discussion in the hall, and I remember 2019, when there was a conscientious cry from the rostrum that the pandemic, the coronavirus, should be appointed. It took a year and a half for this event, when it was allowed without competition to assign responsibilities, there is no responsible one along with or along with the reporting agent, then it would be morally and legally true. My amendment says you can have a contest in two months under category "A" instead of four months, and you don't have to think about someone getting home. And for a year and a half, did they prepare for the competition? Yes, we did. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u261	Forty-one Mommies. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u262	Overruled. You see, the opposition is all the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u263	I'll bet you a vote of 41. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:25:28]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Mommy's next job. The number of the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u264	50th, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Thank you so much for your constructive position that the entire opposition is making corrections. I wouldn't go to the opposition anymore. I would go to the content of the right. Well, for example, if we've only spoken in category "A" before, this is about category "B" and "B". I haven't found any evidence of why the law proposes nine months. Are we waiting after this baby is born? Why 9? What's the big deal? My amendment says that, according to these categories, there are thorough and meaningful competitions that can be held over the course of: (a) four months in the commission of action, not according to the State Bureau of Investigation; and decisions on the appointment of managers, but within the framework of the law that we are now asking for to change.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u265	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u266	The committee's position is to reject. Why are "B" and "B" long terms? Because, look, we don't have a lot of people working at the state service, especially at the grassroots level. There's a lot of trouble in the RDA. And now it might be that all the employees will be on the competition boards, and no one will be doing the work. So to prevent that from happening, there is an extended term. If this is done within a short period of time, all RDA staff will be engaged in competitions for a month. I don't think the majors would like it in this room first. Thank you. Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u267	Amendment No. 50 of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:27:32]] For 115 The decision is not taken. Mommy's next job.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u268	59th. Well, it's a very nice position that anyone who does the duty or who's in the public service can just turn around and go do the competitions or the preparations for the competition. But then this institution has the right to pay for what – for work or for preparation for competitions? There's no answer, let's settle that if a person has the right to prepare, he doesn't get the pay. At least not at these budget costs. My 59th Amendment refers to the fact that, when a contest is actually held, it has passed, a commitment of three months to have the director who performs the duties hold the competition for three months and it has been released in the slots since the adoption of the law. Why? Because we do not have two executives — the executive and the manager.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u269	I'm betting on the vote number 59. The committee is not supported. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[14:29:16]] For 114 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Anatoly Igorovich Urbanski, are you so worried about your colleague? He's got one more piece of paper, he's gonna make it. What's the rest?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u270	Amendment number 67.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u272	She was rejected by the committee. I propose that in paragraph three of section II, paragraph 2, the words "one year" should be replaced by "up to six months." And I want to. This is a revision for category "B" and "B" again. Once again, I want to mark and finish my opinion of the previous amendment. If we have two executives: the incumbent and the winner of the competition, the term of the contract signed by the Cabinet of Ministers, which has a fixed time (two years, three years), is not over, this institution will have two executives. Because the performer's duty is that the manager is the same function. Then we'll go through redundancies, because of the pressure of "write an application at your own request." And if released by law, the individual will be prosecuted in a court of law. And there will be forever two leaders, like two Supreme Courts in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u273	67 Mama's turn. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:30:54]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Puzichuk. Three minutes of the show. I see, Nesterenko. I remember. Puziczuk, three minutes of the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u274	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dmitry Alexanderovich, please put to the vote my amendments: 54th and 62nd. And put the amendment to confirm: 87, 90 and 91. Dear colleagues, I recall that in the first reading of this bill for the restoration of public service competitions, 334 national deputies voted. But until the second reading, it's a completely different bill, it's just a bunch of "hotels" under the cover of re-establishment. What was new in the text for the second reading? Note: Special legislative conditions for appointment as a member of the government for Yuri Vitrenko. I'm not kidding. It is stipulated that the same candidature should not be submitted more than three times, and it is added that it does not extend to those who have already submitted it. What are you ashamed of? Write that "except Yuri Vitrenk" and we'll have this kind of individual act law. No matter what happens in this room, there's never been one before. And the raisin is manual management through the executive duties of ministers so as not to appoint ministers through the Supreme Council. What's stopping you from working as a legislative body? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the procedure for appointing members of the government is defined by the Constitution. Members of the Cabinet of Ministers are appointed by the Supreme Council for the appointment of the Prime Minister. This includes one of the constituents of the parliamentary control function in relation to the executive branch of power, which in turn stems from the fundamental constitutional principle of power-sharing (article 6 of the Constitution of Ukraine). In exchange for ministers, several articles of the Constitution are being violated and the entire system of government is being destroyed. After all this, I have one simple question for the ideologists and lobbyists of this bill. What did you expect that we wouldn't notice all these changes until the second reading, and blindly press the green button? I have to make you very disappointed that MPs from Fatherland always read documents that are put to the vote. Therefore, I ask that amendments 89, 90, 91 be put to the vote and that my amendments 54, 62 be put to the vote. Thank you. And please don't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u275	Dear colleagues, I put 54 and 62 of Puziyczuk's axles first. 54 redundancies. The committee is not supported. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[14:34:23]] For 115 The decision is not taken. 62 Puzichuk's right. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:34:45]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And three revisions for Puzichuk's confirmation: 87th, 90th and 91st. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u276	They're partially accounted for. 90th and 91st, I get it, they don't make much sense anymore because they failed 7th, because they're renumbering 7ths. And about 87, I think you should count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u277	87th, one more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u278	We have to take full account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u279	87 revisions, it's part of the committee. It's a Cornian edit. You're putting her on confirmation? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't shout. Please don't say anything. I'll bet you vote number 87. It's part of the committee. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[14:36:13]] For 197 The decision is not taken. 90th and 91th revision. The reporter believes that they are no longer as relevant as they were at the beginning of the law. I'm betting on the vote number 90. It's counted by the committee. But you also heard the reporter's position and, as I understand it, the author. 90 revisions, yes, author Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko. Please vote. [[14:36:56]] For-152. The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. And 91 revisions, it's also. She's Andriy Andryovich's mole. The committee is accounted for. But you also heard the position of the reporter. Ready to vote? Please vote. It's about confirmation. [[14:37:30.]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Scrub, 24 and 42. Let's just give it a minute and we'll vote two. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u280	Thank you. Okay. Colleagues, these are two of my corrections that have been rejected. First of all, I thank you that the session hall sometimes finds such right and wise decisions. We found them today under the Law on Road Traffic Safety, and I hope we will find them after that. And I, and Fatherland, and all of them, as thinking people, have consistently stood up for the restoration of the competition. Let's be honest, what happened without competitive appointments -- appointments temporary on quarantine time, under the table, without any announcements, without any checks on people's skills -- was a disgrace. We were told that such assignments would be in exceptional cases, and now there would be 20,000 assignments throughout the country. 20,000, of which 150 are category "A", are the highest, as if those who govern the lives of each of us. Therefore, the contests need to be restored, fellow workers. The deadline for the competitions should be shorter. Look, we didn't talk, all of the different factions made adjustments to shorten the deadline for the contests. And the situation in the competition needs to be restored. And the competitions should still be fair and transparent, not as they were before quarantine. Please support two of my corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u281	I'm betting on the vote number 24. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u282	It's rejected. I think after this Vale is over, you can go back, Alana Ivanovna, to this discussion. To improve the situation there, to turn it around and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u283	I'm betting on the vote number 24. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:39:33]] For 118 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 42, Schrum. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:39:54]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Wait. Nesterenko, 19th row.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u284	Dear colleagues, number 19, please place it for confirmation. It's just that we're allowing three times in a row to do the same thing. We think, me and my colleagues, most of them now vote enough twice, as outlined in regulations 14, 17 and 20. Please bet on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u285	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u286	And we've already ruled out 15th and 18th, completely counted. Hence, the rest of this position is rejected in the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u287	19th Amendment. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u288	It doesn't make sense. It's already rejected and so on, because it's negative 15th and 18th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u289	I'm betting on the vote number 19 of the people's deputy, Korneyenka. It's partially accounted for. You just heard the committee's position. It's on confirmation. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:41:29]] For 148 The decision is not taken. The edit remains counted. I'm sorry, the readjustment's been rejected. I'm sorry. Edit rejected. I'm sorry. Cymbaluk, 28th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u290	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. You know, respectable colleagues, this law, as they say in the nation, began beautifully, as though the winds were bad. Because of this, a respected society, the bill is clearly needed, for the government is interested in making the coronavirus, more faithful, a quarantine never completes, and it is possible to assign someone to whom it is needed and where it is needed. But national MPs have been given the right to take the legislative initiative to improve the law in the second reading, and vice versa. Because of this, there is one very interesting law that reads the bill, 28, which has even balanced the terms of entry into reality or recognition by the laws of one or the other. And I ask you to read it carefully and place it on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u291	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u292	I've got it covered.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u293	I'm betting on the vote number 28, by Stryharsky. It's counted by the committee. You just heard the committee's position. Please vote. [[14:43:22]] For 233 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Let's see the factions. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Please invite me. What's that? 76 revisions, Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u294	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I'm looking, we're sitting here, doing this stupid thing, the competition. We have a head HR in the state, this is Mr. Jermak and his brother. I propose a bill that will allow these two brothers to do their job, hire people, take money for it, not take any responsibility. And we're all sitting here, voting, and they're sitting there assigning their own people. That's why, of course, I support this bill, but I'm asking Mr. Korneyenk to come up with some kind of bill that will allow the brothers of the Germans to finally become leaders of this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u295	Dear colleagues, let's essentially give you a right, it's not from the factions, it's not a substitute for the performance. Committee position. 76 redundancies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u296	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u297	I'm betting on the vote number 76 of the People's Deputy Stepa.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u298	It's technical and it's important for technology. Support me. It's not political.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u299	Ready to vote? It's the approval number 76 Steps. The committee's confirmed. The committee insists. Please support and vote. [[14:45:26]] For 306 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. You've got the microphone on, Alexander Sergiyovich. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the reinstatement of public service contracts and other matters of public service (registration No. 4531). Ready to vote? Is everyone ready to vote? Ready. Please support and vote. [[14:46:55]] For 289 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Welcome, everyone. Dear colleagues, I will now give the floor to Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. The issue of granting permission to the Head of the Supreme Council to sign this bill in a timely manner so as not to wait for two days. Actually, here's the thing. Today, there are really problems with payments to many different types, including miners. In order not to wait for two days, if everyone promises that no one will make a blocking order, we will now put the matter to a vote and vote. Is there no objection? None. Ruslan Alexiovich Stefanchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u300	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in principle, made a proposal. Let's still support the proposal to sign this bill today, with regard to the immediate signing of this bill. There's an offer. Please support and vote. [[14:48:21]] For 282
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u301	Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am calling on the Apparatus to prepare this bill immediately, to the Committee and to the Apparatus immediately to prepare this bill for signature, and so that we can send it to the President as soon as possible. Next question, dear colleagues. Four ratifications without discussion. Announcement. According to the statement and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy, Yatzenk Anton Volodymyrovic, from the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u302	Dear colleagues, there are other announcements. The creation of an interfractional parliamentary association for religious peace in Ukraine. The headquarters of this union are the national deputies of Ukraine, Alexander Anatoliyovich and Novinsky Vadim Vladislavovich. Another interfractional merger was created: "On the collision line." The national deputy of Ukraine, Magomedov Musu Sergoyevich, was elected head of this association. I welcome colleagues with interfractional connections.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u303	Dear colleagues, the ratifications, we have seven of them. Can we all do it without talking about it? Then let us put only those that are uncontroversial. 0079. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the Maintenance of Border Road Bridge Objects at the Ukrainian-Polish State Border (Registration No. 0079). Offered. I'll put it to the vote right away, okay? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of an entire draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the maintenance of border road bridges at the Ukrainian-Polish State border (registration No. 0079). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:51:14]] For 341 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Law on Ukraine’s accession to the Extended Partial Agreement on Cultural Routes (register No. 0080). Please support and vote. [[14:51:45]] For 336 Decision taken. The next ratification is a project. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Memorandum between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Austria on mutual access to the labour markets of members of families of diplomatic representatives and consular institutions (registration No. 0081). Please support and vote. [[14:52:28]] For 340. Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Law on Ratification of the Appendices to the Border Documents drawn up by the First Joint Inspection of the State Border Line between Ukraine and Hungary, held between 1997 and 2003, and the Final Protocol on the Joint Inspection of the State Border between Ukraine and Hungary, held between 2009 and 2016 (registration No. 0082). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:53:18]] For 339 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there are three more ratifications. Will you insist on the performance? Let's take a minute and vote. Then we continue for 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm continuing this session for 15 minutes, as requested by the European Solidarity Council. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of an Exchange of Notes) between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands extending until 1 August 2021 the duration of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Investigation Mission from 28 July 2014 (registration No. 0077). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:54:43]] For 277 Decision taken. If there is no objection, I propose that we now sign up for the factions and groups to speak to whoever wants, then we immediately vote and end. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. If someone doesn't want to, they might not. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u304	Dear colleagues, this ratification we continue to work with you with the Netherlands to finally bring responsibility to those who have actually defeated the Ukrainian land, as we already know from the investigation, the Russian Federation. So I ask everyone to support this ratification. But at the same time, I want to stress another. You and I have some serious friends in the European Union who support us, and that's what the European Parliament resolution shows. But I would very much like the Resolution of the European Parliament, such a document of such magnitude and scope and such a thorough document, which was adopted a few days ago in the European Parliament, to be taken seriously by our authorities, because it clearly states that the European Union's assistance is not given. It clearly states that our partners and our friends, they are against the oligarchy that flourished in Ukraine, against corruption, against the politically motivated persecution of political opponents, they are against illegal political interference in the work of independent institutions, starting with the NBA and ending the NABU, SAP and other structures. So I really hope that you and I, colleagues, understand that Latin for "resolution" means "decision." And on February 11, the European Parliament adopted a decision on the path Ukraine could take to return home. I want us to finally start implementing it here. Thank you in advance for supporting the ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-16-m0.u305	Does Bragar not insist? Don't insist. Okay. Vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands extending until 1 August 2021 the duration of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Mission for the Protection of Investigation from 28 July 2014. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:58:10]] For-300 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I think it's just two additional ratifications, they're important, they're going to need a full discussion, so I suggest we put them off for tomorrow. Is there no objection? None. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
