ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Let's get to work. Please prepare for the vote. I remind you that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left, as always. Despite the fact that there is no Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenka, we will surely hand him over. I can see for sure Sergey Mikolayovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. Please register. [[10:14:29]] There are 268 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, we have two nouns today. This is Alexander Vasilovich Haydud. [[Applause]] Ivan Sergiyovich Junakov. [[Applause]] I wish you success, strength, health, and best of all, both of you, and of my colleagues. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was addressed with a letter from the Head of the National Commission, which regulates state energy and utilities, Taraszuk Valeriy Volodymyrovich, on the possibility of considering, at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the regulatory information on the implementation of Ukraine's laws in part of the reforms in the electricity and natural gas market and the necessary measures to protect the interests of consumers. The need to consider this information is important, and we all understand it well. There was an agreement that the rules of procedure on this issue would be as follows: 10 minutes – a statement and then each faction would be able to ask questions. According to the usual tradition, one minute is a question, two minutes is an answer. The panel for the report is invited by the Head of the National Commission, who conducts national regulation in the field of energy and utilities, Valery Volodymyrovich Tarasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished intercessors, distinguished national MPs! Thank you for letting us speak. I want to inform you about the activities of the NCREKP, a brief, of course, which I have the privilege of leading for a little over a year. On activities in the field of state energy regulation. You know, we're basically criticized for two things. Energy companies that provide us all with energy are critical of the fact that the tariffs we set are too low. Consumers criticize us for being too high on these tariffs. And what's interesting is that they're probably right. And so the very place and role of the regulator is to balance the interests of energy companies, consumers and the state. And it's impossible to satisfy everyone. When everyone is a little dissatisfied, it's an indicator that the controller works normally. Although, I'll be honest with you, this is another job where the performance rate is everybody's dissatisfaction. But now I'm going to talk a little bit about balancing and regulating energy. Let's start with the electricity market. The electricity market we can conditionally divide into two parts: regulation of electricity as goods and transport and delivery of this electricity to consumers. Electricity as a commodity. Since July 1, 2019, the Electricity Market Act has entered into force, and we have a new model in the country for the pro-European electricity market. Of course, everything new is complicated, and such a complex thing as electricity, and the new model of the market, it's too complicated. Some countries have not been able to cope with this and have canceled these markets. We also have many problems. We have an imperfect PSO mechanism. We have cross-subsidisation when industry pays for consumers, reducing its competitiveness to 50 billion dollars a year. We have an uncontrolled increase in the volume of the "green" generation, which is objectively the road and the price at which the euro is fixed according to the law, but the law is the law and we have to do it. We have non-payments from state mines and the Donbas water company, which also burns down a little market. But despite our problems, we are working hard on overcoming them, virtually 24 hours a day monitoring the situation, and we are trying to react instantly with Minenergo and the government. Together, with you and the government together, we can be proud that our international partners call the start of a market a relative story of relative success. Today, in order not to go into detail (because this is a long-term market talk as a commodity), I want to say that price indications work correctly when demand is as high as today, consumption is high, price is high. When the demand for electricity or electricity is too high, the price is too low. It's about the goods. A particular talk is about transporting and distributing or delivering electricity. The transport is made by Krennergo NEX on the highway networks. And the Ukrenergo tariff for today is 29 copies that pay for a kilowatt-hour for all consumers of the country. Of those 29 copies, 9 copies is the infrastructure component, which is to support the Krennergo network itself, 20 copies is a supplement for producers of renewable energy, so our legislation works. We pay an excess of market value and a green tariff through the NEK Krennergo tariff. I'm going to pause a little bit on local networks, so-called skyscrapers and distribution tariffs, so-called tariff distribution. We've all probably already heard, heard and felt that the weariness of our networks reaches 80 percent. We've been trying for decades to introduce reform of the so-called incentive regulation, the RAB regulation to start updating, modernizing these networks. For some reason, whether you wanted too much or couldn't put it in, but our commission made this reform this year. Since January 1st, we have introduced stimulating regulations, introduced parameters that allow this to be done, and this is calculated not only by us, but also by the international auditing company Deloitte, our international partners. The energy companies wanted too much, and we were under a lot of pressure, which came from the ordering articles of stories and television broadcasters to physical persecution and observation of the head and members of the commission, but we endured, stimulating regulation began. By the way, our audiences in the EIS, there was a meeting yesterday, and we're also assured that the parameters allow for successful privatization of state-owned skyscrapers, which is also an indicator of success. In particular, the last thing about electricity is connection. A really important topic is joining electrical networks. But the main problems here, they're not in the realm of the NCREKP, they're not even in value, they're in the area of permit procedures, land drains, permits and so on. The reform office did a package of bills, it's on your mind, and we're very hopeful that you'll accept -- and Ukraine will improve its rating in the Doing Business. As far as we're concerned, for the second year in a row, we've been lowering accession rates -- that makes it easier to run a business. We've improved the methodology and we're working in this direction. It's about electricity. It's about gas. Similarly to electricity is gas as a commodity, and there is transportation and delivery, delivery, or distribution. The distribution is carried out by the so - called oatmeal. With regard to gas as a commodity -- a lot of people are now saying, this is a separate conversation -- this is not the direct competence of the NCRECR. We have a market price for gas, and the state has now, you know, protected citizens by setting a limit of 6.99, it's a separate story. The fact that the direct competence of the NCRECR is to set tariffs for distribution. I want to tell you that the tariff on distribution is not a figure that can be raised or dropped by someone's enigma. The tariff for distribution is made up, I want to explain to you, from specific components, and behind these ingredients we can lower or increase. So up to 50 percent of the tariff on distribution is the cost of BTV and called manufacturing and technology losses and gas costs. What is it? It's what's called the technology gas that's needed to deliver the basic gas to our customers' homes. It's gas for gas stations, gas for pressure regulators, and so on. So up to 50, once again, percent is the price of this gas. What price did the commission place on the tarmac tariffs? I'm telling you, 5,000, 850 dollars. If we mention our marginal prices even for the population, agree that this is not a cloudy figure, but a very optimistic figure. And for God's sake, let the fakes handle it and buy this V.T.I. for their business. By the way, the main beneficiary of this is the State Operator of the Ukrainian Gas Transport System. Why? Because, as we've seen in the past few years, when there's no real amount of money on VTV, the polygamy starts to take gas into the system operator, creating a financial collapse actually. Debts of fraud in front of the system operator Skrtransgas reach 50 billion there, and how to bury them, we'll all think together. So once again, the first ingredient, up to 50 percent, is the gas on the VTV. The second ingredient, up to 30 percent, is the wages, the wages of the highly skilled, by the way, the workers of the lie. There are tens of thousands of our fellow citizens. What's the size of the salary? I'm telling you, it's 15,000 bucks today. You know, it's not a cloudy figure either, and two years ago, this figure was between 5,000 and 6,000, and there's almost no employees left. As a country, we are still fortunate that no technological catastrophes have occurred. The third ingredient is only 20 percent of the third component, which is operating costs (repairs, upgrades, emergency services, dispatch services), and that's only 20 percent. In total, the distribution tariff is between 5 and 15 percent of the total gas cheque, which is the ratio of the tariff to the gas price. In the major countries, this ratio is 100 percent, 50 percent at least, so we haven't reached it yet. But I understand, we understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u3	Thank you. Please sign up for questions from MPs and groups. No, there's no extra time, unfortunately. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u4	Please pass the word Timoshenko to Julia Volodymyrni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u5	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u6	The senior head of the NCRECR, you today, including the setting of unfair tariffs on gas, on electricity, on everything. You're part of all the corrupt tools, you're part of the speculation on the mountain people. Give me the answer to just two questions. First question. Why did the gas jam average 2.5 bracelets per cubic meter, and you sell people directly, they have 9 in their apartments and on their counters, and there's even more? And the second. Why do we today have a gas of our own production, which is about a little bit over 2 dollars worth of self-sustainability with a tax-added value -- that's a penny -- why do you sell your own gas for nine dollars, speculating on people, taking the last one, and you cover it up? And I'm very sorry that we were given only a minute, because we need to get you out of here in handcuffs, not listen to your reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u7	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. I must have partly answered your question by explaining the regulator's competence. For several years now, the regulator has not affected the price of gas. There's a gas market, and that's why the price of 2.5 or 9 doesn't apply to us. We are dealing with tariffs for gas distribution companies and for OGTSA, the Operator of the Ukrainian gas transport system. Which makes up the operator's tariff, I haven't talked about it, but the biggest announcement right now is the tariffs of fraud. These are the ingredients I told you. That I haven't been able to say yet that, of course, after the meeting, after meeting with the people's deputies, with the government and with the President, we also found an opportunity and set up a kind of primer. Now we've got 14 slips of tariffs down, and none of them will have a tariff of more than 79. This is especially true of small deceptions. Small, because it doesn't work the scale of these little ruses, there's Hadzgaz, the same Loubnigaz, which made the most noise in the country. So to prevent that from happening, we've worked on a bill with the committee and the government, and I'm very much asking you to put your shoulders back on again, and then adopt a bill on the accumulation of deception. That is, that the number of subscribers in the slip cannot be less than 100,000, means that small ones will have to merge with large ones, and then the tariff, the total tariff, will be reduced in these small cities and these small areas of small deception. Why? Because the variance between 30 and 2.50 was real. I briefly explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u8	Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u9	Pass it on to Gerus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u10	Gerus Andrey Mihailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u11	Good afternoon. The price of gas, distribution tariffs, electricity tariffs have already been discussed in society, but there are Ukrainian citizens who do not buy gas directly using centralized heat. So I have a question: what about the heat tariffs? This is especially true of cities. And what about water tariffs, cold water, and hot water? Please answer that question. And the second. We have businesses besides the population, we also have businesses. And we have a huge problem: connecting to the power lines, to the power grids. Please tell me, do you have any plans to simplify so that Ukraine can go up to East and Doing Business ratings and so that entrepreneurs can easily start a business and get easier and easier access to electricity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u12	Yeah, three questions. With respect to centralized heating and central heating tariffs. Perhaps you've all heard, we've had a very broad meeting and discussion with the authorities of local self-government, we have, together with the government, under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister. We agreed that during this heating season we would not allow the rise of tariffs on central heating and the corresponding hot water supply. But how do we do this is still being discussed, along with NAC Naftogaz, the corresponding memorandum should be signed. But the fact remains that tariffs will not rise during this heating season. As far as cold water is concerned, the key to the cost of cold water is the cost of electricity. As in hot water, the cost of gas, and in cold water, electricity. Whether the cost of electricity goes up or not, we can talk about tariffs. Today, we see and find the possibilities that if there is growth, it is insignificant. We're going to try to invent all the possibilities to also stop the growth in cold water. And about the attachments. I told you in my report, we're already doing a lot in this direction. We've already forgiven our regulator's procedure, the integration procedure and the rate and pay procedure, made it transparent, and we see the result. We've introduced, as I said, stimulating regulation, and that will also allow us to lower the rates of accession in itself. But the most important thing about accession is bureaucratic procedures for permits. The reform package, the bill package submitted to the Council, is very much supported. This has been done in the Nacrad of Reforms. All parties supported it, it is absolutely necessary -- the adoption of a package of these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u13	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u14	Constanceevich Irina, 23th constituency. Mr. Head, thank you. I'm here. I thank you for your information. Regrettably, she did not answer the main questions that concern people: Do they have a perspective on the cost of tariffs after the heating season? And this is the first question: Will this be a bright prospect? The second question is my question about joining bets. Because I'm a major constituency, where 80 percent is rural. I want to say that these accession prices are insurmountable for the rural population. The cost of $2-3 thousand to join is very difficult. So answer that question: What can a peasant in Volin in the near future count on? Whether people living in rural areas can join newly built homes.?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Look, after the heating period, we're all going to sit at the round table with NAC Naftogaz and we're going to look at the price of the gas, where we're going to look at the market, which is the price. Now we're seeing a downward trend, and hopefully it'll be extended. So we really hope that the increase in tariffs is not even going to be the next period, even though this is what the market is going to tell us. But we'll be watching it all together after the heating period is over. It's about joining the Volina. You've named some very large numbers, and I'm afraid there's no room for abuse of the monopolistic state of the archetype in your case. I'm asking you to give me a specific example, please come to me or call me or meet me. I don't refuse to meet anyone, I respond to all the references. We'll figure it out together. Those numbers you called, they're really too big, let's figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u16	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u17	Mr. Tarasyuk, on most of the questions we asked, you gave a constructive answer. And thank you, by the way, for your constructive work. But the question that's probably been in the community for several months now is about limiting the import of electricity from the Russian Federation, the aggressor country, and Belarus. And, in principle, should we or should we not? When are you going to do that? And whether you're going to do it not only for electricity, but for other kinds of energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u18	Jaroslav Ivanovich, thank you. Look, the question is pretty wide, you won't answer it very quickly here, but I'll try. We're, in principle, regulators, like NCREKPs, advocates of market methods, advocates of healthy competition. In principle, any import restriction is a restriction on competition. But we have reality, we have reality in Russian aggression, and of course we can't ignore it, too, as a state, I understand. Import application question. As of today, the commission can't even technically ban imports because the powers you gave to the commission last year were exhausted by the end of this year. I know that a bill has been tabled on the extension of these powers. If you give the commission the authority to restrict imports again, we will also discuss them together, because we also need to think about consumers, so that the restrictions on imports do not increase the price of electricity for consumers. Consumers are the foundation of our economy. And we also have to think about consumers in the first place. But the commission last year proved that she could do it. When we had COVID in the spring, we made this decision: limit imports to zero. And we've restricted it. Today import actually justified itself in January. Because, as we've heard, coal deposits at thermal power stations were at a minimum, even at the limit of the threat of fissures, restrictions on electricity supply. Thus, imports even helped to some extent. Therefore, we need to be very careful and balanced in our approach to such decisions as we will do with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u19	The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Shah's Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u21	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u22	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Question one. Luhansk is in the fire today, in depression, war is coming. Why is Lugansk's electricity tariff for all entrepreneurs at the price of December 1st 84, and in all areas, December 1st 19? Luhanskina is the richest area today? Once again, depression and war in those areas in Donbassa today. Next. Why are we today buying Belarusian electricity, Russian electricity? Why aren't we using our electricity today? Why haven't they made that decision since January 1st? Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u23	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Right away on the second question. I was answering him to the previous National MP. I'll tell you again that if you give us authority -- we don't have them now, they're exhausted from January 1st -- if you give us those powers (the bill was introduced yesterday was agreed on the committee), we'll come back to this issue together and we'll decide on the restrictions on imports. Regarding excessive tariffs in Luhansk. As I said, tariff is not a figure that can be placed high or low, it's made up of some ingredients. So these ingredients in Luhansk are, unfortunately, higher than in other areas because the networks are stretched out and the industry is left in an uncontrollable territory. So as a state, we have a really balanced approach to these exceptional cases and perhaps also adopt a bill on entrenchedness and archetypes by analogy with lies. Sergei Volodymyrovich, we have an appointment with you this afternoon. Let's not waste time here, we'll work substantively on our committee after lunch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u24	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u25	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u26	Fedia Sofia Romanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u27	Sophia Fedina, European Solidarity. Questions. Why did the NCREKP allow for a shortage of fuel reserves in thermal energy companies that created electricity risks? It seems to me that you should keep on the watch. The other one. Why do companies in Colossae buy electricity or three times the market price? This abuse of citizens and, in fact, this is not a free market, it's a stroke to a particular oligarch. Third. Why should gas be paid for by people who are not using gas for 15-20 years and who have seals on their pipes that are officially certified? As a result, these people also have to pay for gas supplies. And I didn’t get the answers from NCREZP for three of my letters. And question four. What's with the tax rate for people living in a 30-mile zone near AES? That is, the tax on electricity was abolished not only for consumers of electricity but also for people living in such specific environments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u28	Thank you, Sophia Romanovna. All right. Fuel deficit. It's definitely the authority to monitor this is Minpalevenergo's jurisdiction. Now they're checking together with Dergenergoefficiency. But the commission's mandate is to verify compliance with minimum conservation standards that are set by Minpaliv. In the past session, we have made decisions regarding the non-scheduled checks of all TES, and we will check and punish in the event of failure to comply with these standards. Although, I think they're definitely going to be discovered, because we all see that norms don't follow. As far as purchasing Cologne is concerned, it has nothing to do with the market. If a company buys cheaper in a state company, it's a matter of management. It's a matter of management on government companies that allow such purchases. There's nothing to market here. If a public company sells a luxury to a private company, it should be handled by law enforcement authorities as well as the authorities of these companies. Supply of gas where consumption is low. We had this discussion last year, I want to explain once again that even if you don't consume gas, but you want to be able to consume it, so you didn't cover the pipe, you didn't break the contract with a fake, the pipe has to be under pressure and you have to pay the minimum cost of operating the network. Because these networks need to be maintained equally, even if you consume little gas. We have in Ukraine, in principle, if you have to cook food, or one plate, is 4 bracelets 50 copies, if with a column of 14 bracelets, in private houses with a boiler, it's 36 bracelets a month. It's a minimum wage. I think these prices for service are pretty normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u29	Lukashev Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Alexander Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u31	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u32	Thank you. I'm going to have to ask you a question. Today, there's going to be a very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very simple. But since it already exists today, there are questions that relate to the sphere of your competence. So tell me exactly what the numbers and the terms of the tax return are when the 100 kilowatts return on electricity? One. The other one. When will the tariffs for water supply and water supply be reduced from 27 to 21 bracelets for millionaire cities? Two. Third. When will the gas tariff be reduced? You've placed a temporary, 2 months, 1 bracelet 79. And in some cities, we have a distribution, for example, from Kiev, where almost 400 bracelets, to Loubnigaz, where almost 3,000 bracelets are for delivery. Four. When you analyzed the ingredients, we didn't hear from you about the depreciation costs that are appropriate for upgrading to minimize losses and have economic reasons for lowering tariffs. Please answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u34	Let's do the last one: by depreciation. When I talked about the components of the tariff, they're in those "unfortunate" 20 percent. Unfortunately, because they have to be multiple times more, they have to be multiple times more to be able to operate networks, repair networks, upgrade networks, we all know they're worn out. With regard to the Supreme Council’s decision. I'm afraid I've never seen her before, so I can't comment on what's going on. I'll look at it -- and I'll comment on it already in working mode if it's accepted, of course. And about 1 bracelet 79. It's not adopted on a temporary basis for two months, and it's accepted on a permanent basis. And I'm going to point out that this is a higher limit, which is above 1 bracelet 79, we're not going to have a tariff. For the future, to lower these tariffs, I repeat, we ask very much for the support of a bill drafted by the government, us and the committee on the accumulation of counterfeits. That is, small slips merge with large ones, tariffs also merge and become more even throughout the country so that people do not feel social injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u35	Thank you. Question time's up. Thank you, Your Honor. Valery Volodymyrovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, let's get to work. According to articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to the proposal of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People", which includes most Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and which has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the application for the appointment of Vitrek Jurija Juriovich as Ukraine's First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Energy of Ukraine. In accordance with article 78 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, under article 43 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I entrust the committee to consider this issue. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll read it and I'll give it all to you. "Serial of the people," you still had to be a third. The committee will consider the matter during the break so that we can look into it in the hall at 1:30, which is originally scheduled for this time. Now two statements, it was like there were three of them until the extra one came. From "Serve of the People," Susko Pavlov Mikolaiovich, then Julia Volodymyrna. Right? Paul Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! Paul Susko, deputy head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, head of the film and advertising subcommittee. In recent years, the film industry has been torn apart by anything that could have been bankrupt and costless. We're trying to protect the last studios we have left. For the second year in a row, we've been fighting for historical cinemas and film studios. And at the most vulnerable moment for the industry, when it suffers from the consequences of the pandemic, it was decided by the hands of the local deputies of Kyivrada. Yesterday, the Kyivrada Commission on Architecture, Urban and Land Relations made an illegal decision: it decided to bring the issue of the permanent use of 2 hectares of land in the center of Kiev in the street of Konoválz, 18, which was bankrupted by the state-owned company "The Ukrainian Chronic and Documentary Film Studio", which will then go into the private hands of the developer. What's the matter? The state-owned cinematic enterprise was in debt, and the debt was driven by a previous leadership, as it was always going on. Because of the careless management of the company, these debts were covered by a private company called Zodcza Diadema, and it had to cross the area because the private company had covered its debts and could potentially claim the property and land of the Kinochronics. The interest of Kinochronics at the meeting was represented by a person who was not authorized by the manager of the company, and she asked the commission to take this voted decision, that is, the official representative of Ukrakinochronika, was not there. There is also the exhibition of Karpenk Karogo University, students, public figures, national artists of Ukraine, representatives of Ukrkinochronics. They have asked us not to allow this illegal transfer of land. We appeal to the deputies, representatives of all the political forces in Kievrad, and we call on them not to support the decision. We call on the Attorney General to pay attention to this problem and not to allow the theft of a state-owned enterprise and illegal obstruction. Thank you for your attention. We hope for understanding and common sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u37	Another statement was made about a break with a replacement for the performance. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, you know that the whole country is buzzing with new tariffs, and you know very well that people are getting payments for January. And in the background of this, we've heard a legendary speech by the head of the NCREKP. I have in my hands just the stamina of his authority and the authority of the body that he heads, where it is clearly written: the implementation of pricing and tariff policies. These people were appointed President of Ukraine, the Order. I want to ask you, why, instead of making a specific decision, is this talk that nobody cares about and that has absolutely no answers to it? I want to remind you that the National Commission on Electricity Control (NCREC) in the past was headed by the head of the Lipec factory, Mr. Vukok, and they raised gas and heat prices by 11 years, raised electricity tariffs by 7 times, and then the state audit established that 225 billion dollars had been removed from NAC Naftogazu, plus an additional 75 billion were not paid in the budget for the money that people paid for the tariffs. I mean, today it's all going on. The same people are leading the Naftogaz NAC, and today we're going to vote for Vitrenk's thief. All exactly the same trends in NCREKP: corruption and theft continue. To say, criticizing doesn't make any sense. I want to go to the deputies right now and say that you and I have the authority to enact laws. And in our power to adopt a law that predicts that the gas of its own production is given to humans. Do you realize there's no market? You're smart people in this room! When you're told about the market, it's a big lie because one supplier today provides gas to the population, and that's why there's no market. They set speculative prices by hand, and people take the last one. Let's adopt a law, sign it all together: Ukrainian gas, Ukrainian gas, plus 30 percent profitability, no more, and gas from gas dumps, to Ukrainians at the price of traffic plus taxes. It's in our hands. Today our team will propose such a bill to sign every faction, and we must accept it and put an end to it when our people take two or three times the tariffs they actually have to take, and then through NAC Naftogaz, as it was in the previous government, they take this money out of the country, they take it out of Ukraine, they take it out of the country, they take it out of the country, they take it out of the country, they take it out of the people's right to life. We have a way out, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u39	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. Also a break with a replacement for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u40	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'm speaking on behalf of the Opposition Platform for Life and the factions of the Supreme Council of Trust. And the question that concerns us today is fundamental. Please tell us why citizens of Ukraine who own Ukraine today have to pay the price, which is attention! – 8 times the cost of Ukrainian gas on its own? 1150 dollars is today the cost of the gas of its own production. It is possible to add profitability to further development. Why do Ukrainians today pay such a tax as a rent on their own gas? Why do they pay VAT? And that's what the 200 percent increase in profitability is all about? Even that price, which is supposed to be some kind of tax on 1 February, is going to be 6,000 860 dollars, plus delivery -- it's going to be about 8,000 600 dollars, and in certain areas it's going to be 9,000 dollars. Why should 300 dollars, or even more, be paid for a gas worth $38? It's not fair, it's not human, it's not government. Our position is clear: the gas of our own production, which can provide for our people's needs by 90 percent, must be devoted to who it belongs to, the people of Ukraine. Today we are looking at the principle of pricing, and I have a question for the head of NCRE. Please tell us, we all know, and NAC Naftogaz was proud to buy cheap gas in the summer and attach the largest amount in our warehouses, buy cheaper than $100. Why is it now sold to the people of Ukraine, consumers for $300, even at this price? On the calculator, we all know how to count. Don't rob people! And we demand that the tax rates return to 3,000 kilowatts, 90 kilowatts. And we demand that all the benefits be returned to our consumers. They destroyed the economy and transferred all the electricity to the people. Are we fighting so hard for peace in this region? Is that how we fight for our citizens? Think of the people, not call them all "servants" only! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices on State Registration of Medical Liabilities (Registration No. 4613). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:57:57:57]] For 202 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich, is invited to attend. Give it up to four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u42	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, presented to you with a bill aimed at registering vaccines against COVID-19 in Ukraine as soon as possible and launching a massive vaccination of the population. Today, none of the vaccines against COVID-19 can be registered in Ukraine in an orderly manner, because for objective reasons none of them have a full registration file and completed stage three and four wedge trials. All vaccines used today to carry out COVID-19 vaccinations in the leading countries of the world are also not fully registered in these countries, but have been admitted to a so-called commitment registration. In the European Union, such a procedure is provided for by Directive 2001/83/EU. This bill actually integrates the same procedure into national legislation. By applying this procedure, citizens will receive the most needed vaccines, and vaccine manufacturers will be obliged to continue post - registration studies on the safety or efficacy of vaccines. We believe that in order to speed up the registration of the vaccine against COVID-19 and the beginning of the vaccination of the population, this bill should be adopted immediately. At the same time, the committee suggests that additional safeguards should be provided to prevent the registration of non - quality vaccines and vaccines of unknown origin. The committee therefore considers it necessary to make some clarifications and additions to the text of the bill, which are reflected in the Committee’s conclusions. With this in mind, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following a first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices on State Registration of Medical Assets (registration number 4613), to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law, taking into account the proposals made by the Committee, as reflected in the Committee's conclusions. And entrust the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to carry out technical and legal drafting of the bill in preparation for signature to the Head of the Supreme Council. Please support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u43	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Mikhailo Borisovich, you can sit down. Blue Oleg Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u44	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u45	Victoria Petrovna Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, apparently there is no more topic in the world today than the issue of vaccination. I would very much like to believe that in Ukraine we would take the matter seriously. But what do we see? We see that when we consider the issue of vaccines, we do not even have the Ministry of Health. Where, then, is this urgency? Now, we're looking at the bill, even with the committee's revisions. And you know, he surprises me very much because this bill doesn't have the word COVID and the word "vaccin." You will, of course, now refer to European directives, but there's still a position 1 that you don't quote. So this bill is prescribed under the emergency registration of any medical device that hasn't completed the clinical trials. And this can now be done by a reduced procedure. You know, it's very serious looking just like a corruption scheme, not a question of how to solve the problem and still a vaccine to be carried out in Ukraine. And I don't understand why it's such an up-to-date question, why you can't just go to him in a responsible way and write this bill very clearly, it's small, and there's a few paragraphs that we can understand that it's exactly about the cures for COVID-19. So, colleagues, obviously, we're all here today completely in order for Ukraine to start vaccination with normal vaccines. Because each and every one of you is going to be pfizer and moderna and no one is going to be "Satellite" round. I didn't see any Russian vaccine supporters here, especially so they could do it on camera. And we want the Ukrainians to receive massive, honest, fair and adequate vaccines today. So in the first reading, we now vote yes. And then this bill has to really be written for quality vaccination, and it has to be amended and.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u47	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u48	Stefanizini Olga, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u49	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, remember we had President Viktor Janukovic who wanted us never to join the European Union? Yes, today his dream is realized by Mr. Maxim Stepanov, who will shut us down in all civilized countries physically. Very soon the whole of Europe, the United States and other developed countries will complete the population vaccination from COVID-19. We don't even know when we're going to start. We're not going to have to demand a PLR test anymore, we're going to need a vaccine passport. But neither you nor I nor our parents, unfortunately, will be, because Ukraine may be inoculating its population by the end of 2023. Are we ready to live in this isolation? I highly doubt it. And I think that today what our government is doing nothing at all to provoke the population, and even the priority groups, is a disgrace. Now, here's the bill. He flew us from the government to the committee. All I could do was knock out the papers so there wouldn't be a Russian Federation and a Sputnik in this simplified registration. Of course, this bill is not ideal. But we are all now hostages of this government, which has neither a normal plan nor an understanding of how these processes are going to take place. The bill allows for temporary emergency registration of vaccines that I understand are already on the border today. And if we don't vote for it, we're criminals, because Mr. Stepanov couldn't plan trials properly. I'm tired of being a hostage to this minister. Do you understand? Of course, I can't help but vote for this bill. But I think, colleagues, it's a disgrace to have the entire Supreme Council in the hostages and nothing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u51	Mamyan Suto Čolojevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u53	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u54	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'm, to be honest, well, it's nice to be surprised that we're back on the vaccine issue. I read that journalists have investigated, that Smigal has already been vaccinated by Pfizer, that individual members of the government -- they've already been vaccinated. Why are we fighting here and wasting our time? People are good, where are the brains? He was here yesterday with an official visit from the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Hungary. 2 million doses per 10 million population, and one dose is 2 ampoules. Hungary signed a contract with Russia for the supply of Sputnik V. They haven't regulated their use of Sinovac yet, and they have doubts about the effectiveness of the Chinese vaccine. Today, a vaccine that is not yet widely accepted in the world wants to be vaccinated, and we don't even know when or how. On the other hand, the vaccine that is now being registered and used in Serbia, Hungary, Germany starts registering Satellite V, we don't recognize it just because it's Russian. Today's opportunity to produce it in Ukraine is really in the interests of our citizens. I'm here today for any effective vaccine in Ukraine, let's speak frankly. "Satellite V" is made on the principles we know: on the principles of Soviet understandable vaccination. And the others: both Moderna and Pfizer, these are new technologies for interfering with RNA and DNA, and we don't know how they're going to work definitively in the next. So let's think about people, not politics. I'm going to be vaccinated in Budapest with Satellite V, and my family, too, I care about their health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u55	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u56	Please pass it on to Dubella's colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u57	Deep Valery. Turn on the double, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u58	The Fatherland faction, Valérie Dubyl, first deputy to the National Health Committee. The Fatherland faction will support Bill 4613, which proposes a mechanism for the introduction and registration of medicines and vaccines into Ukraine under the obligation of the manufacturer. And that way we can give the vaccine to Ukrainian citizens, because it's more valuable than human life. Because no vaccine can legally be registered in Ukraine today because no manufacturer has passed the full cycle of clinical trials. This law gives additional powers to the executive authority, and the executive authority will be responsible for delivering an effective and guaranteed quality vaccine to Ukraine. And our team, the Motherland faction and the committee will keep an eye on this. We support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u59	Thank you. I can see that. Who else? Whitelighter, Anna Constantine -- I see. Two speeches with motives, then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u60	Colleagues, the "Trust" MP will vote on this bill in the first reading, but not in general. Because it is proposed to supplement article 9 of the Law on Medical Devices concerning the registration of medical devices for emergency medical use. It is clear from the article that not only drugs that are directed against the fight against COVID will fall under this article, and this is an abuse of the norm when the pandemic expands the capabilities of some people who are very crafty. It is also suggested that a commitment procedure can be applied to medicines that have undergone clinical research in the United States, the European Union. But why India and Mexico and Brazil? Mexico and India -- these countries don't come. The drugs are not safe. And we need to leave the European Union, the United States, where the FDA is, where there's clear control. And so we're going to get low-quality, stranded vaccines. Because I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u61	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u62	The MP's Party for the Future will support this law in the first reading. But we ask very much between the first and the second readings, nevertheless, to make it clear that it will apply exclusively to vaccine and cures for COVID-19. And in order for there to be no manipulations at the price of vaccines, we would like to consider our MP's Ordinance on State Price Controls for Vaccines against COVID-19 (4494). Because we all know that there is a vaccine today, but they are available to exclusive people in this country. We know that we are very much in love with drug prices, including vaccine prices. Therefore, the matter must be similarly dealt with in parallel with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I'll give Raducci more for a reason. And please, before the vote, head of the committee and heads of the MP factions and groups, approach the rostrum, consult. Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, thank you for your observation. The only thing I'd like to remind you is that in my speech, there was a saying that this law would support the committee's rights. The committee’s papers, Mrs. Oksano, have cleaned up countries such as Mexico and Brazil. There are only countries of the European Union, the United States, Japan, Great Britain, the People’s Republic of China and India, all of them. And Switzerland, I'm sorry. There's no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, please approach the rostrum by directing factions and groups. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. There are some debates about this bill, I mean Bill 4613. It is very important for us to accept it this week, but we need to make some changes between the first and the second readings. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, therefore, it has just been arranged with the leaders of the MP factions and groups. Alexander Fedienko, you don't care about vaccines anymore, I understand you have dijitalization. Dear colleagues, we have agreed to now vote on this bill as a basis. Tomorrow's ad hoc procedure. Today, I'm going to have the committee review and amend the bill, and tomorrow we're going to vote on the ad hoc procedure. Is there no objection? But I'm waiting, as always, for a letter from the MP factions and groups. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there won't be any speeches now. No, there will be no speeches, Nestor Ivanovich! Nestor Ivanovich, you just agreed, you were behind the ad hoc. Nestor Ivanovich, "Sputnika" won't get there. Inculcate the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] What are you doing? Do you know how to make a deal? We just made a deal. Nestor Ivanovich, ask your colleague. You want to introduce another bill. There won't be any vaccines tomorrow. Who are they coming to? No, they'll come to you, Anatoly Petrovich, they'll come to you. In general, are you ready to vote now? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Medical Devices on State Registration of Medical Assets (Registration No. 4613). Please support and vote. [[11:18:24]] For 318 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal under part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the reduction of the half-life of the submission of rights and proposals and the preparation for the second reading of Bill 4613. Excuse me, I don't care if I don't mind, but if you click on it, you define pros or cons, there's three of them, it's a regular procedure. Dear colleagues, please study the Rules. Please support and vote. [[11:19:06]] For 312 Who's against vaccines, who's against vaccination, we'll see. Thank you, Your Honor. Show by factions, please: "Serviary of the People" – 213, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 22, "Fathership" – 19, "Party for the Future" – 15, "Voice" – 15, "Trust" – 15, non-fractional – 13. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Procedure for the Calculation of Calls by Representative Authorities of Local Self-Government (the Council) on the Renewal of the Single Order for the Calculation of Calls (registration No. 4414). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:20:12]] For 247 Decision taken. Honorary colleagues, the chairman of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kloczko Andriyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u66	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the distinguished ones present! The draft Law of Registration 4414 provides for amendments to articles 1, 2 and 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the procedure for the calculation of calls by representatives of local self-government bodies with a view to re-establishing the one-stop-shop in Ukraine today. I recall that the only legislative regulation for local councils was introduced in 2004. Parliament decided to consider the first assembly of all without exception the local councils elected in 1990. The following vocations of local councils were to change only after the next election, and the fact that they had been called on in turn and the first election on individual councils did not affect the numbering of their vocations. However, after the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on June 4, 2009, regarding the above - mentioned law, the situation had changed and the constituency of the deputies had to be regarded as a full-fledged call by the local council, which violated their only national numbering. I note that on February 11, 2011, changes were made to the Constitution of Ukraine, and it is also established that the term of office of the deputy local councils is 5 years when they are elected in the next election. There was no mention of the early local elections, that is, the legislator had the opportunity to return to the question of renewing the only number of calls made by local councils. Today, there are significant differences in the numbering of these references, which we have received from local governments and their associations. In particular, the individual councils of the united territorial communities elected in the first election before 2020 began to establish their own numbering, but on October 25, 2020, another first election took place at the village, village, city, and district levels, and it became virtually impossible to maintain the agreed unity of calls. That is why I and my committee colleagues decided to propose to Parliament at the legislative level that the unity of the calculation of local councils should be restored. At this point, as before for the local councils, and today for the Supreme Council, the first call that occurred on Ukraine’s Independence Day in 1991 will be considered. For further calculation, only the number of consecutive elections held is taken into account. As a result, the local councils elected in the October 25, 2020, local elections are considered councils of the eighth vocation. I inform you that the committee has considered this bill at its meeting on 16 December 2020 and, taking into account the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, has approved the recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the outcome of the first reading to accept it as a basis and as a whole. In the event of the adoption of the bill in the first reading and in general it is proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine entrust the committee in preparing the relevant text for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry it out jointly with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council to carry out its technical and legal work. Please support the position of the committee. Thank you for your attention. Please support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u67	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Lunchenko Valeriy Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u68	Please give me the word of Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u69	Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u70	Colleagues in need of a bill, it's really technical, which will allow this to be corrected in the councils, because what call they are today are confused -- both seventh and eighth and ninth, because there were successive elections, there were interim elections when there was a voluntary union and there were elections. So it's very important to do it in a uniform way so that they don't get confused, to recognize it that way, to give them the method of calculating the conclusions of local councils. Here the convocation will no longer be counted, and we will assume that they are all the eighth convocations. Although it was just recently October 25th that the first local elections were held, I think it will make it easier and remove a bunch of problems that have arisen in communities today. So please support, this is our committee bill, the Committee of Public Authority, local self-government, and, in principle, it will unify and help bring everything to the common denominator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u71	Thank you. Ruslan Petrovich Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u72	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor. I really think it would be good to accept this bill, even if it were a basis, because there is a high expectation that we are this bill, by adopting it, we will conclude two discussions. The first discussion is about what is the term of approval of councils that are chosen in consecutive elections. We're finally going to have a common consensus that these are the councils that only act on the next election, because the new convening is another election, not another election. And secondly, we're really going to solve this issue that's not only caused by the Constitutional Court's decision, which is mentioned, but also by the Local Elections Act 2010 when the Transitional Elections decided that the councils that were elected in the 2008-2009 pre-election elections, the City Council of Kiev and the Ternopil District Council, are doing their numbering according to the call that was chosen in the pre-election elections. And the situation was finally confused. And now we have not only at rural, rural or OTG levels, but even at the level of the Kyiv and the Ternopil District Council, an incomprehensible situation. I very much hope that this bill will resolve this issue. So we will support it on the basis, and in our second reading, we will make our suggestions that will improve it, since there are certain things that will be discussed and will necessarily have to be cleaned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u73	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u74	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u75	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, and above all, representatives of local self - government! Obviously there is a problem. The problem raised in this bill is absolutely correct, and the unification of all the exclamation numbers is absolutely necessary. But numbering should first reflect the continuous sequence, the numbering of all calls. And I'll just say one particular example: Kyivrada's example. On October 25, as elsewhere in Ukraine, local elections took place in Kyivrad. And what call did Kyivrad have for us? On the ninth. Now if this bill works, the convening of Kyivrada will be considered the eighth call, that is, the second eighth call. Imagine the chaos in the documentation, how to find solutions that will be numbered by the eighth vocation as the previous vocation of Kyivrad and as the new vocation of Kyivrad. The main scientific and expert management also points to the imperfections of this approach. And you have to work on this problem, but unfortunately, the law will not solve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u77	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u78	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, please give the floor to National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u79	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u80	Thank you, Mr. Anton Polakov. Dear colleagues, dear friends, of course we understand the importance of this bill, especially after considering the issue of vaccination that Ukraine urgently needs. And before considering the inadmissibility of raising tariffs on the numbering of calls made by local councils. But at the same time, it's not just skepsis and irony, of course, not to the irony of our citizens. At the same time, we point out that we have to have our own unified state-of-the-art validation of local self-government organs, which we have been leading since the proclamation of the State Act of Independence of Sovereignty since 1990. But we want to listen to the head office, the GNEU, which comments on the content of the bill and believes that the law should provide for the numbering rules not only of the local councils but also of the characteristics of the numbering of local councils elected in the out-of-order and early elections to be linked to the number of the local council’s call. But in doing so, they should reflect continuously, as all of my fellow representatives of different factions and groups have stressed, the continuous sequence of numberings of all council calls, the transition of rights and duties from one local council to another. That's why we support this bill in the first reading, taking into account the technical and legal drafting of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, please, who else? Sobolev, for reasons, then we go to the vote. Are there no more speakers? Sobolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u82	Sobolje, Fatherland. I've never seen a more absurd bill in my life. That is, the first elections that took place in the united communities will now be considered eight, and the elections that took place in turn will now have a double. Well, what do you suggest? How will the documentation be conducted? How will you appeal to decisions if they are annulled in court? In our view, factions, this bill cannot be approved even in the first reading. Read the warnings of science management, it's absolutely clear. And it's okay that the council has its own numbering, because one council was formed six months ago, and the other has existed since the 1990s. What's changed here? That's why our faction won't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u83	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. This bill is proposed by a committee for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Procedure for the Calculation of Calls by Representatives of Local Self-Government (the Council) on the Renewal of the Single Order for the Calculation of Calls (registration No. 4414). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:32:43]] For 276 Decision taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption as a whole with the necessary technical and legal rights. Please support and vote. [[11:33:10]] For 263 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft of the Social Protection Regulation for higher prices (tariff) for residential services (registration number 4650). This draft decree was agreed upon by virtually all MP factions and groups. And the following procedure was agreed in preparation for consideration: two minutes -- a speech from the authors, two minutes -- a speech from the committee and all the MPs have up to two minutes to perform, factions and MPs. If there is no objection, I will put such an offer to the vote. Please support and vote. [[11:34:09]] For 331 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Energy and Housing services, Herus Andry Mihajlovich, both from the authors and from the committee, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u84	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, chairman! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Energy and Housing Services, at its meeting on 27 January 2021, reviewed the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on measures to protect the population socially in connection with the rise in prices (tariffs) for housing and utility services (number 4650), submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. David Georgiyovich, Mr. Dmitry Alexanderovich, and other national deputies, only 144 signatures. The draft regulation proposes that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine consider the proposals and take a number of social protection measures in relation to price increases (tariffs) for housing and utilities. It is also recommended that, together with the energy regulator, the possibility of introducing additional forms of government regulation of prices (tariffs) for residential services be explored and that the mechanism of support for vulnerable consumers be improved. Most of the committee's national deputies supported the adoption of this draft decision, taking into account the proposals and comments expressed at the committee's meeting concerning the distribution of electricity benefits for the population living in the 30km zone of nuclear power plants and family-type houses, as well as the facilitation of access to pensioners' subsidies, persons with disabilities, unemployed and other vulnerable types of population. As a result of the review, the committee recommends a draft regulation on measures aimed at social protection for the population to be adopted on the basis and in general, taking into account the suggestions made by the committee, which are contained in the opinion of the committee before this draft decision, which can be consulted in the materials distributed. I'm going to read the suggestions of the stenographer's committee. Part one, as follows: “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine urgently amends the social regulations on the calculation of subsidies for the use of gas, electricity, heat, other services, as well as to ensure that pensioners, persons with disabilities, who are unemployed and who are unemployed in the grant system are made easier to access from October 1, 2020 to the following regulations: of October 21, 1995, No. 848 "On simplifying the way in which subsidies are granted to the population to compensate for the cost of residential services, the acquisition of clumped gas, solid and liquid end-of-life fuel"; of July 27, 1998, No. 1156 "On the new size of the cost of housing services, the acquisition of cremated gas, solid and liquid end-of-life fuel in the case of housing subsidies"; of August 6, 2014, No. 409 "On the establishment of State social standards in the area of housing and utilities". In the monthly period, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2021 in part of the increase in expenditure on the budget programme "Paying benefits and housing subsidies to citizens for housing and utility services, the acquisition of solid and liquid end-of-life fuel and spent gas in cash." To study and propose amendments to legislation with a view to completing the heating season 2020-2021 on the basis of a system of housing and utility services for the population operating until 1 January 2021." After paragraph 1, paragraph 3, of Part Two, add to paragraph 4, the following sentence: "Installation of electricity benefits for the population living in a 30-kilometre zone of nuclear power plants (coma), family-type children's homes." Please support the committee's decision and adopt a draft ruling on the basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u85	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Dubil Valeriy Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u86	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u87	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u88	Without a doubt, our faction took part in the preparation of this decree and we support it. Sadly, though, this is a judgment. This decision is the verdict of the state power management system. And you have to sit down honestly and answer these questions. How can nuclear energy be destructive? How do billions of dollars each month bring nuclear energy to damage? Most of all, it's a profitable energy sector. As long as we don't start an open conversation in this room, the government won't start this conversation. Vitreno will not raise these questions, for he led others along with him to this situation in the country. And what we're trying to cover with a fig leaf right now is the shame that's been made, it's not going to lead to anything. Unfortunately, we now find out that there is no government in power. Yeah, the half-measures that are now being done: a 30-mile zone, we're returning the benefits to those who live. But they even got up here, and they got 100 kilowatts, and they had to go to the benefits categories. Only at the last minute did the committee fix the situation with many children. But that's not going to do any good, and Parliament has to answer itself why the profitable industries have become bankrupt, why we from the electricity-exporting country have turned into an energy-importing country. Here are the answers that both society and this room need. So, yes, we support this decision, but unfortunately, it's half the size that won't solve the energy issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u89	Borrowing Irina On purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u90	Good afternoon. Irina Borzov, Winnitzkin. In January, there was an increase in gas prices in Ukraine, an increase in housing and utility tariffs, and this is the most painful question for people. An increase in tariffs during the economic crisis and national quarantine, when so difficult for Ukrainians, can lead to accumulation of debts. The Kabin should develop a mechanism to compensate the difference in January's gas tariffs, and this could be on subsidies, and to develop a tax on electricity for consumers who use up to 100 kilowatts per month. We need to review and increase the budget in part of the increase in the cost of benefits and housing subsidies to citizens for housing and utilities. We support the draft decision, and we must do our utmost to support those who need our most attention and support today. Thank you. Irina Borsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u91	Thank you. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Inni Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u93	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u94	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, of course, what is now happening around prices and tariffs on energy is causing great resentment and debate in society. We have reasons for doing so. The key reason is that citizens are not fully informed about what is actually happening, citizens were not informed, as they were able to switch gas suppliers in January, and citizens could already get lower gas prices in January, if the government had conducted an adequate information campaign, an educational campaign, and explained how it would be possible for individual citizens to lower gas prices for families right now. We also see a lot of manipulations around this issue instead of professional, essentially discussion. Unfortunately, this decision, which we are currently considering and obviously, which will be supported by the majority in Parliament, is unlikely to solve the problems that there are now. Let us read carefully and honestly what the decision offers. The decision suggests: Study questions, consider opportunities, see how to recommend them. Can these steps, in principle, solve problems? Obviously, this decree is a more political statement from the Supreme Council, and this political statement seems to me, unfortunately, very weak. This is a political statement that, to this day, there is no clear understanding in the Supreme Council of what state policy should be in the field of energy. We support market action or government regulation -- it's a key question that we don't answer. And what we are now deciding, what we are proposing in this decision, is to study this issue. I'd like us to study this question a little bit longer and have a clear answer from the majority party, from the government about what state policy and government position is about energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u95	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, can the government finally work so that there is no desire to withdraw it and resign it? How do we get the government to work so that we don't let the tariff slaps that were allowed at the beginning of the year, which are not expensive for the country and for the common citizens, but also condemn millions of citizens to live outside the poverty line that turns to tragedy for these citizens? According to official statistics, friends, the Institute of Demographics of such citizens living outside of poverty accounted for about 51 percent of Ukraine’s population in mid - 2000. And we're convinced that after the two lokdowns, the failure of which we can certainly argue for a long time, this percentage of people living outside the poverty line has increased significantly. We don't have the integrity of the gas market, and the fact that the government is today trying to introduce government regulation of prices in the energy market is certainly the right solution. And we're not interested here in this view of the International Monetary Fund. So in adopting such a decision, we are convinced that our parliamentary group "For the Future" is convinced that there will probably be a government in the room in full order to hear it. Because we live in a parliamentary-presidential country, and people are waiting for parliament to solve the problem that should be in this country -- the parliamentary-presidential one. Because they believe that the key to solving the problem is in Parliament, and they complain that we are not solving the problem. So, my friends, we strongly insist that the question of restoring the cost of electricity when consuming up to 100 kilowatts is returned and implemented by the government, the issue of multi-child, foster families, family-type children's homes with regard to electricity consumption would be taken into account, the questions living in the 30km nuclear power station zone would be taken into account as well. Only under such conditions will we vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u97	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. I'm sorry. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u98	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Dear colleagues, our group will support all the initiatives, all the regulations, all the bills that are aimed at costing housing and utilities for the population, for legal persons. It's long overdue in the energy sphere of our state, because what's going on right now, it's completely out of line with real wages, real pensions. People can't pay for these payments because their incomes are completely out of line with the payments they get. As early as January, we registered similar legislation, similar regulation, which is about to be applied to the cost of housing and utility tariffs for the population. With regard to this provision, we will be sure to uphold it. Perhaps it does not solve all the problems, but we owe it to the government to find the resources to ensure that people receive subsidies in full January, February, March of this year. It can't be that when people get their dues, they don't know what to do, and they go to all the institutions, to the national MPs, because it's a crazy situation. We should make sure that the electricity system is in order, and we must restore the premium to those who have switched to electric power. It's this decision that settles this issue. We need to settle the issue of gas transport necessarily because what is happening now, especially in Poltavščina, when people received the highest payment, the highest tariff on gas delivery, is not included in any framework when the weighted average was 2 to 2.5 times below the national average. That is why we support this decision. We're giving the government a mandate to work on lowering housing and utilities, lowering payments for our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u99	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support this decision. But it's not that we have a strong remark, it's just not on our heads. Things like this, like the cause of the increase in tariffs in Ukraine, are COVID-19. This is simply absurd, trying to cover up corruption and criminal schemes in the theft of the population. Of course, there are declarative standards. Since the head of the NCRE was here today, I asked specific questions: What will be the determination of the tax rate, what were the colleagues saying, up to 100 kilowatts/hours of 90 copies? Or what will be the determination to change, and where in this same determination is our return today, which has increased to 30 percent across the country, to produce heat? Or where is the same standard as the cold water supply and water supply that grew in the millionaire cities from 21 to 27 dollars? It's not there. And now for economic premeditations. I've been talking to you all over the last year and a half. We've put in two bills that have made it possible to lower gas prices and derivatives for heating and hot water supply. You haven't heard from us in a year and a half. You didn't want to do that. So listen now, when people go out on the street and when they demand that they have fair markets and, most importantly, economically sound tariffs. 2841 bracelet is the holiday price of Crushing Gas. After the 20th year, we've already raised the statistics, the Crushing extracts 15 billion cubic metres of gas, 15.3, to be exact, and the consumption of population and heat-community is 16.3 million. The gas is practically zero enough for the gas, which is its own production, to go to the needs of the population. The import gas has decreased, and its price has decreased from $339 to $202. What economic preconditions do you have for this increase? So do not engage in populism and declarative decisions, but actually lower the price of gas and other derived tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u101	Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, then we go to the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u102	Dear Ukrainians, when the Greens authorities unjustifiably increased their prices for gas and took into account the poorest tax on electricity, "European Solidarity" has developed a clear plan to help the population. And yesterday, there was this decision that actually repeats the European Solidarity Strategy for overcoming the tariff crisis. The decision proposes to increase subsidies and to refund the tax on electricity. We've been copied, and thank God. Do you know where to get the money? Pass the bill "European Solidarity" 4585 and direct an additional 7 billion dollars to the grant. It is also very important to prohibit the purchase of Russian electricity and gas. And if we touched the gas. Today, from this rostrum about tariffs, gas and conscience, we have decided to tell you a person who is very sensitive to gas, the "gas princess" of Lazarus, who caused the state to suffer billions of dollars in losses. The proof of this is Ukraine's victory in Stockholm's arbitration, when we returned more than $4 billion, which, after the Chi-hy with Putin, she overpaid the Kremlin and for which the Kremlin bought arms and killed our soldiers. Today they want to put us back on the Russian gas needle and on Russian gas circuits. "European Solidarity" won't let either the gas princess or her phone subscribers do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u103	Thank you, colleagues. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Prepare to vote. Ready? Dear colleagues, this decision is the result of the work of all MP factions and groups, starting from the moment the tariff-related events took place. The position that the Supreme Council should assume responsibility and be willing to work in this direction has been echoed by all factions and deputies. And the MPs are the first to face the problem because people came to them. This is especially true of majors. So I'm sure it's very important today to support this decision, to support people. And what lies in the area of responsibility, in the area of our capabilities, we've done 110 percent in today's conditions. I thank you all, and I propose to vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Decision on measures for social protection of the population in connection with the increase in prices (tariffs) for housing services (registration No. 4650). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:55:44]] For 337 Decision taken. It's been decided. Thank you, Your Honor. The break is announced, since there are three minutes left, until 12:30. Thank you. 12:345:04
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u104	Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Sergey Vitaliovich Babak, please come in for a moment. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Because we're going to have to make a decision on the shorter procedure. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Constitutional Procedure Act (registrations 4533, 4533-1). Please prepare for the vote because it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:38:06]] For 196 Decision taken. The vice president of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyrna, is invited to attend. Please give me four minutes both from the authors and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the bill on constitutional procedure, worked by a working group of parliament to come out of the constitutional crisis, which included representatives of all MP factions and groups. In addition, a group of highly professional professionals from constitutional law was working on the bill, for which I would like to thank them sincerely from this high rostrum. My colleagues, thank you. Now essentially the bill. First, the bill introduces a qualified majority for the adoption of decisions by the Constitutional Court – 12 votes. Such an increase in the number of votes required for the adoption of decisions will ensure the court’s approval of more balanced and reasoned decisions. Secondly, the oral form of conduct is introduced as a basic form of consideration. Why is this important? Because citizens need to understand that the Constitutional Court works openly, transparently, not behind closed doors. A clear mechanism for shaping the order of the day of the Constitutional Court is in place. So far, a disgraceful situation has arisen when the order of the day of the Constitutional Court is actually shaped by its Head. As a result, the formation takes place in a transparent manner, sometimes cases are included in the agenda immediately prior to the court’s hearing, which does not ensure their proper level of trial and creates a selective approach. Yes, there are cases in court today that have been under consideration for six years in a row, such as illustrations. A single centralized register of acts of the Constitutional Court is being introduced to facilitate access by members of the Constitutional Court. There is an increase in requirements for the motivation of decisions of the Constitutional Court. This is not normal when the Constitutional Court finds that 50 rules of law are unconstitutional, which refers to one rule of the Rules, and the decision reaches 5-7 pages. The bill contains a whole range of changes and regulations aimed at improving the effectiveness and effectiveness of the constitutional complaint institution, which will also facilitate citizens' access to constitutional justice. In addition, for the first time in law, the issue of disciplinary conduct of judges of the Constitutional Court is largely settled, for today, imagine that the Constitutional Court itself determines the procedure for disciplinary conduct on its own. Unfortunately, there are a lot of manipulations around the bill, starting with the fact that the Constitutional Court is not supposed to adopt its Rules. That's not true. The Rules of the Constitutional Court, as its internal act, and the Constitutional Procedure Act, will act in parallel. And the manipulation is also that this law cannot be passed without the conclusion of the Venice Commission. Last night, we successfully voted on the Law on the All-U.S. referendum, where the conclusions of the Venice Commission and the work on the bill were carried out in parallel. Colleagues, the government budget for a single decision of the Constitutional Court totals 15 million dollars. I think that under such a budget, the state can only allow itself to spend money on legally impeccable and politically neutral decisions. The committee requests the adoption of bill 4533 in the first reading and the rejection of 4533-1, and the Head of the Supreme Council to announce the application of the special procedure provided for in article 116 of the Rules of the Constitutional Court in order to adjust the content of the law in the event of receiving observations from the Venice Commission. The Constitutional Court in our country will work according to European standards. I believe that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u106	Thank you. Paulenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, Ukrainian national deputy, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u107	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! In accordance with article 153 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the status of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the basis and procedure for bringing cases before a court, the procedure for dealing with cases and the enforcement of decisions are determined by the Constitution of Ukraine and the law. This constitutional formula defines the framework for legislative regulation of the procedural activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. They are now regulated in a single legislative act, the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act. The main bill, number 4533, contains, say, further procedural proposals that are drafted into the draft constitutional procedure. However, in our view, more precise would be the formulation of the procedure for handling cases and implementing the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which more precisely defines the subject matter, namely, this law and the subject matter of regulation, and the rules contained in this legislative act. During the proceedings, the court is governed by the principle of the highest legal force, the Constitution of Ukraine and the constitutional doctrine, according to the authors of the Basic Law. However, the concept of constitutional doctrine in the way it is used in the project is virtually nonexistent, which would limit the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in an unnatural way. We therefore suggest that we return to the definitions offered to us by the Constitution of Ukraine and the Constitutional Court Act. Likewise, and this may be one of the greatest observations, in fact the Constitutional Court’s Rules of Procedure are repealed, which likewise goes beyond that of authority. This Rules should exist and govern the internal procedures of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u108	Thank you. Please write down: Two for, two for, and one for, MP factions and groups. Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u109	Please pass the word to Batenku Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u110	Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u111	Good afternoon again, dear colleagues, dear friends! I would like to remind you that, literally yesterday, our parliamentary group, "The Party for the Future", did not vote on the issue of an all-U.S. referendum, where we, you know, insisted on our amendments, including those relating to the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court should, in full procedure, be one of the main guarantors of the constitutionality of the issues raised in the country referendum, consider the issues that would be brought to it. Therefore, obviously, we are saving ourselves for the Constitutional Court to be in charge of its status and to maintain its independence to the fullest extent possible. And in recent months, what some deputies have called a constitutional crisis, which has been caused to a greater extent by the heads of a separate office, the Constitutional Court has found itself "with a knife." And we know how "under the knife" turned out to be his independence as a higher body capable of interpreting the Constitution of Ukraine. We also know that the President of Ukraine called off his bill yesterday to restore public confidence in constitutional justice, which was envisaged for the illegal dissolution of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. So obviously it's not all direct, it's all circumstantial to the bill. And I have great respect for the content of this bill and for the colleagues who participated in the working group that was convened by Dmitri Alexandrovich Razumkovi, but we also have our own observations, the parliamentary group that we will insist on. This applies in particular to the adoption by the Constitutional Court of decisions by two thirds of its 12 judges. Now, as you know, the decision is made by ten judges. We believe that this could block the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Infringement of the rules of disqualification and self-refoulement of members of the Constitutional Court. The question of offering annual leave to all judges at the same time. Well, not all the judges can go on vacation at the same time, it's actually the Constitutional Court that's going to be out of work, and in a democratic country that's not acceptable. And one or the other proposals do not allow us to vote for this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u112	Ionushas Sergey Konstantinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u113	Please pass it on to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u114	Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u115	The President-in-Office, the honourable national MPs on this bill, which we are considering today, must be borne in mind that the deplorable decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on October 27th was a direct consequence of the fact that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine's Rules, which extended the mandate of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, allowed for the manipulation of, among other things, the order of the sittings of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And that was one of the reasons why the Constitutional Court adopted that decision: because the Head of the Constitutional Court, one-off, formed the order of the day, manipulated and proposed the questions he considered necessary. But the words spoken here do not correspond to reality, because this bill does not provide for the repeal of the Rules of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court will be in a position to approve the Rules, which will allow it, in a procedural way, to determine those procedures that are not regulated by this Law. But the main thing to remember is that this law is a direct consequence of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part two, which determines that all authorities, local authorities, their officials (services) are required to act only on the basis of powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court is one of the authorities of the State, which also has to act exclusively in accordance with the Ukrainian Law, and this is what article 153 requires. So, of course, there are some questions about the content of this law that can be easily removed between the first and the second readings. I urge everyone to vote in favour of this law in order to put the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine within the limits defined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The Voice faction supports this law, and I call for the support of other political forces as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u116	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u117	Please pass the word to Oleg Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u118	Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, by acknowledging and giving due credit to the work carried out by the copyright team, I would like to say that I would urge not to vote in favour of this bill. First of all, I want to say that the bill looks extremely imperfect. First of all, it is worth noting that sufficient public discussions have not been held if they have been held at all. This is vital to this level of the bill. It is very important that yesterday the Head of the Supreme Council sent the text of the bill to the Venice Commission, we await the conclusion of the Venice Commission. Please tell me, the supporters of this law, why should we now adopt it in the first reading, considering that under article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, proposals and amendments to the draft bill, which is being prepared for the second reading, are being tabled in the 14-day period following the adoption of the bill as a basis? So for 14 days you have to file your papers now, then we'll be waiting for the Venice Commission to come to. What are we going to do next, break the Rules? Are we going to violate the Ukrainian Rules Act? We will then now amend the laws of Ukraine that are not currently provided for by this Constitutional Procedure Act? Why are we doing this? I appeal to the adherents of this law. In order for him to have a chance to be accepted, now not to vote for him, send him on a re-first reading to the committee. To await the conclusions of the Venice Commission and then to accept it as a basis, to work on the second reading already taking into account the wishes and suggestions of the deputies, and then to support it as a whole as a document that is complete, balanced and necessary for the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u120	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u121	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to start with the decision of the Venice Commission, which is so much talked about, that the Venice Commission said in December this year, confirming its conclusion that ignoring the decisions of the Constitutional Court is tantamount to ignoring the Constitution and constitutional authority. This was the answer to a question from the President of Ukraine, who asked him how we could read the decisions. That's the first one. And the second. It's about the bill. Dear colleagues, I would like to begin by saying that the Venice Commission has just said that the Constitutional Court, which we want to embarrass today, is the guardian of the Constitution. Under the Constitution, the President of Ukraine is a guarantor, and the Constitutional Court is a guardian, and attempts to regulate the provisions of the law are contrary to the Constitution and all international practices of the Constitutional Court. Yesterday, no one on the committee gave any examples of how legislative bodies could regulate the decisions and activities of the Constitutional Court. From this we see that, essentially from the Constitutional Court, they're not protecting the Constitution, they're making a verdict that is subversive to the Bank, to the President. I'm for our president. And I would like the President not to work on the Venislavsky when he works on the Holocaust, because he listened to his loyal forces and led us to, in fact, to dishonor our Constitution, we dishonor the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Time's up, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u123	I'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u124	No, Vasil Ivanovich. What do you include? Thank you. Please, Prince Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! To our conviction, the adoption of this law is totally unconstitutional. If you accept it, imagine that we will have two laws governing the work of the Constitutional Court. We cannot have the same legal relationship under the Constitution under two laws. And if you leave the Rules, it's going to be total chaos in court. We can't release all the judges, let's just destroy their ability to work. The other one. If you raise up to two thirds of the judges to vote for the decision, imagine that two thirds of the decisions are made in Parliament. In the committee, try to make at least one decision for two thirds. This means that in a three - part body, because there are three sources of formation, two components will necessarily always unite against the third. This will lead to political corruption, and you will be responsible. And the last. Changes will be made to the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, where the Rules will be deprived of the ability to respond to the Constitutional Court's warnings. We are excluded from being able to influence the decision to make changes to the Constitution. How can you vote for it? We will be firm against such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u126	All those who wish to speak? The chess of motive. Then we go to the vote. I remember. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u127	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, now, if this law is voted on, we are endangering the general independence of our country, which can be used by both the aggressor and anyone. Look what's happening, the crisis in everything: in the energy complex, in the infrastructure, in the tariff. Don't make a crisis in a constitutional organ today, please. I've been addressing and addressing you from the point of view of Lugansk, of Donetsk, when the two villains have completely corrupted the Constitution and left a million people with the right to vote constitutionally. Did anyone pay attention to that? The president says we don't have 200 days today and there's no peace everywhere, and two bad guys have committed war, two heads of the military-civil administration of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. When will this be over, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u128	All those who wish to speak? Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Controversy, conflict of interest, and Pauline. Turn on the Sougiri Olzi Volodymyrski microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not take part in this vote because I have been nominated as a judge of the Constitutional Court because of a possible potential conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u130	Thank you. Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, since my candidacy for the Constitutional Court is a candidate, I see a possible conflict of interest during the legislative vote, so I will not take part in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u132	Please prepare for the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. I'll bet you a vote. No, the speeches are over. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Law on Constitutional Procedure (registration number 4533). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:00:15]] For 197 The decision is not taken. I am voting for a motion to refer to the committee of the draft Constitutional Procedure Act (Registration No. 4533) for re-reading. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:00:47]] For 226 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law on Parliamentary Service (registration number 4530) and alternative (4530-1). Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the above-mentioned bill. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:01:34]] For 261 Decision taken. The proposal to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session is put to the vote. Please support and vote. [[13:02:03]] For 266 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:02:23]] For 246 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich is invited to attend. Both from the committee and from the authors, please give me four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, this is an important bill. His genesis is deep into a process that was a few years ago, and he was in the last Parliament -- the European Parliament's mission, the European Union. She's known as Cox's mission. Colleagues came to our house, examined the activities of our Supreme Council, made some recommendations, some of which have already been made for amendments to the Rules, some of which will still be made for amendments to the Rules and generally for legislation. One of the systemic changes they were talking about, which they were proposing, is just a bill on parliamentary service. Parliamentary service, or the Office of the Supreme Council, can be called in different ways, we call it the Parliamentary Service, it's the established practice of the whole world: in the whole world, the work of the secretariats of their parliaments, they are called different, in every country, it's regulated separately. Why? Because Parliament is a special body, a legislative body, most government officials are always working in the executive sphere, in the executive branch of power, there are some civil servants in the judicial branch of power, but most of them are still in executive power. There are far fewer people working for the legislative body. You know, the number of our apparatus -- there's one and a half, there's up to two thousand people. And so we need a separate approach, separate procedures, separate rules that will allow our Supreme Council apparatus, the committee secretariats to work much better and more effectively. Our committee at its meeting on January 25, the draft Law on Parliamentary Service was being considered. During the discussion, members of the committee unanimously expressed their support for the need to normalize the institution of a separate parliamentary public service, mentioned in the recommendations of Mr. Cox’s mission on March 18, 2016. GNEU also shares the view that the speciality of the service of those who provide the work of Parliament should be separately regulated. The Anti-Corruption Policy Committee failed to identify corruptive factors that could contribute to corruption and concluded that it met the requirements of anticorruption legislation. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill on parliamentary service under registration number 4530 on the basis of the first reading, without shortening the deadline for us to be able to introduce and improve the bill. We have an alternative bill. I think that colleagues, if the hall decides on the basic bill, will join in improving it to the second reading. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u134	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikola Leonidovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u135	Thank you. With all due respect to the Head of the Supreme Council, to the committee, to the drafters of the bill, "European Solidarity" is convinced that this bill is now completely out of time. Because, for example, what he foresees is that the board of directors and other positions in the House of Parliament is not going to be the High Service Commission, as it is now, but the commission that was created inside the Apparatus. The requirements for candidates, the order of the contest, and everything else are established only by the Chief of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill proposes to abandon the open and transparent public service and poses corruption risks when the Executive Officer of the Apparatus decides who, by what principle, is accepted. This is a bad precedent, because we are actually launching a reform of the public service. The bill provides unequal financial and material security conditions for members of the secretariats of committees and secretaries of MPs. And these are the people who do the analysis every day, do the other work to ensure the work of Parliament and every national MP. The bill actually lays the groundwork for the sale of the property of the Supreme Council, because the Supreme Council itself now owns the property, and the bill proposes that the Supreme Council determine the arrangements for the management of property. This could lead to the fact that the policy of government property approved by the Supreme Council would be opaque and that it contained corruption risks and property actually sold out. This issue is not really the subject of legislation. We have passed an alternative bill, although we really believe that this is the topic that we now have in time, but we have tried to correct the flaws in the alternative bill of this law. It would be more important for us now to talk about subsidies or medical reform than about how to dispose of the property of the Supreme Council. We urge you to vote against it, to vote for ours and ours and ours and ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Can we vote? Dear colleagues, one minute, please. Invite the national deputies to the hall. No discussion, the colleagues said, please. Dear colleagues! For they will all be under discussion, John Ivanovich, but they have arranged without discussion, that they may be simple. Dear colleagues, you know that every day it is the Supreme Council's apparatus that provides our work with you, and many, when we go home or go on a trip, they continue to work. That's what this bill is about, and I hope you can support it. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Parliamentary Service (Registration No. 4530). Please prepare for the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. I'm sure everyone wants to be supportive. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:09:48]] For 301 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the appointment of Vitrek Yuri Yuriovich as First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy of Ukraine. According to articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People", which includes the majority of Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and which has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council a submission on the appointment of Vitrenka Yuri Juriovich as First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy of Ukraine. The right materials are given to you. The following minutes are proposed: presentation of the candidate by the Prime Minister of Ukraine for up to 2 minutes; presentation of the candidate for the post of First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy of Ukraine for up to 3 minutes; questions to the candidate from the national deputies of Ukraine for up to 9 minutes; reports from the committee for up to 2 minutes; statements from the deputy factions and groups, three minutes from each faction and group. After that, the decision was made. Is there no objection? Thank you. Then let's put a motion for a vote. Ready to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u137	As a matter of fact, I'm just about to. How many minutes does it take? Colleagues, I won't say it again. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:11:47]] For 223 Dear colleagues, we are now, wait, we are voting with you now. And wait, 150 votes is a procedural decision, colleagues, that's all. It's a procedural decision. Colleagues, no, during performances. You don't need to wave a document. Please welcome the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u138	Good day, Your Honor, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, Your Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Honourable Ukrainians! According to paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 and part of the fourth 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Staff of the People", which according to part of article 83 of the Constitution has the right of the coalition of deputy factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call, I present the application for the appointment of Vitrenk Jurija Juriovich as First Deputy Prime Minister of Energy of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u139	Thank you. The candidate for the post of First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy of Ukraine Vitrenco Yuriy Yuriovich, is invited to the floor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't shout. I'll ask you a question. Yuri Yuriovich! [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't shout, dear fellows, I can hear you. Is the declaration on the site? It shouldn't be distributed, it should be on the site. Is she on the site? While the discussion is under way, please check with the Council for a statement by Yuri Yuriovich Vitrenko. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u140	The Honourable Parliament of Ukraine! Last time, on this rostrum, I was talking about my principles, they didn't change during this time, so there's no point in repeating them. Instead, I will be better informed about what was done in the Ministry of Energy while I was serving as a minister, and then you will be able to judge me by matters rather than by words. So what was done. During the days following the appointment, debt was repaid on the payroll of miners who were covering the roads. A draft decision was submitted to Kabmin to limit the price of electricity to the population. If such a decision had not been made, the price of electricity would now be twice as high. The most significant benefits were monetized. So the population that uses electricity doesn't have to lose money. At the same time, this complex decision has allowed Krennergo to borrow more than 10 billion dollars to pay off its debts to Energoat and the generation of renewable energy sources. Contracts were also signed with foreign investors for their own gas production in Ukraine. A decision on gas was made on Kabmen, which allowed the price of gas to be reduced from February to a third. If such a decision had not been made, the price would have gone up to a quarter. In the cold, we were all frightened. Systemic proposals have also been developed to address the most painful issues in the field, such as energy dependence, market manipulation, technical balance, and non-environmental energy systems, and the debt crisis. This shows what we can do to implement the positions enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine: a social state with a market economy that integrates into Europe. Then I'll answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u141	Thank you. Please sign up. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Shevchenko Evgeny Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u142	Good afternoon. Yuri, I'm here, on the right. Good afternoon. We haven't talked to you once, and, you know, translating from one wallet to another, a grant is a temporary measure. I'm asking you very much to throw out populism, and yet we're going to the east of our world -- Central Asia -- and we're looking for cheap energy, cheap energy. I mean, we need the gas of Turkmenistan, you know what I'm talking about. I'm asking you to take care of the coals. Enough of this Rotterdam+, enough to buy some coal of American origin that comes to us from Russia, and we have to tell people the truth. Because while we're lying to people, pretending we're not buying Russian gas, we're buying it on a hood somehow? But money is still going to Russia, and people are poor, and they don't have normal tariffs. I'm asking you to stop this and do everything you can to make people live better, so that the tariffs are real and that this populism is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u143	We will work hard to make tariffs on the one hand clear and accessible to people, with higher wages, and therefore fewer people will have to apply for subsidies. We will also tell people the truth, on the one hand, by ensuring the real energy independence of Ukraine, on the other hand, to work to stop the abuse of monopolies both inside and outside Ukraine. So, for example, we're going to work on pushing our external enemies so that they don't block, for example, Ukraine's ability to get the same gas, or even for Europe, to get the same gas, for example, from Turkmenistan. But this will be done in Ukraine’s interests and will ensure Ukraine’s energy independence. First of all, we're going to increase our own gas production. And from this point of view, I have a successful experience: when I coordinated the relationship between Naftegas and Crushing, 15th to 18th year, the output grew, both gross and commercial gas discharges, by 1 billion cubes. And before that, he fell and then he fell. When I co-ordinated relations with Skrnaft, the output grew by 7 percent, and by now it was falling and then it was falling. So we're going to increase the production of our own gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u144	Thank you. Next question. Wait a minute! Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u145	Please pass the word to Inni Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u146	Another Romanovna Sosun.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u147	Another Sosun faction of Voice. Mr. Yuri, please tell me clearly, does the government need any additional subsidies now? Given that the payments have increased, we would like to know what the need for subsidies is now, very clearly, in numbers. The second question, which is now being very actively discussed, including yesterday on the committee, is the import of electricity from Belarus or the Russian Federation. Do you think we need to set restrictions on such imports or do we not need to? I'd like you to make an argument, please. And the third question. The question concerns Ukraine’s accession to the European Green Course. What three steps does Ukraine now need to take in order to develop green energy in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u148	First. Let's do it from the end then. The first is about subsidies. I can calm people first of all, it's my responsibility as a member, well, or as a current minister, to calm people down as long as the grant is enough for all people. Because people are really going through this. When we go through the heating season, then we as a government will see how much, if we need extra money. And the government will come to the hall, if necessary, asking for increased subsidies. But for this hot season, people have enough money. At least that's what I hear from my colleagues in the Cabinet of Ministers. Now, about the import from Russia and Belarus of electricity. There must be limits. These restrictions must, unfortunately, take into account the fact that we are now integrated with the Russian and Belarusian systems. So, for example, I recently said that literally a week ago there was a situation where we were supposed to provide emergency assistance to the Belarusian system and then get emergency assistance from the Belarusian system. But smart limits should be even now. At the same time, our strategic goal, which we also have to implement right now, is to join the ENTSO-E European system and disconnect it from Russia and Belarus. This is what we need to work on, without it, we're going to be limited in how we can limit electricity inflows. The last one is Green Deal. First, we need to settle the debt crisis, and secondly, we need to balance our system technically so that the green generation replaces the coal, not add problems to the coal generation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u149	Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u150	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Mr. Yuri, well, you're well-known to the country as a very professional manipulator, so I'm quick to ask you a question. First. Your declaration. Did you accidentally forget to tell me if you would then apologize and correct? Because the President is introducing a bill of criminal responsibility for this. The other one. What did you cash in there? We gave you grants for a year. And now you assure us that they will be enough for the heating season. So you've taken all the money, now you're handing out, and you're going to come and ask, you're going to tell me who to take these subsidies. Third. Your manipulation that your offer to lower gas prices is another manipulation. You proposed a completely different option -- hab minus, and you made a decision about some minimum price on the stock market. So stop lying. And last of all, about your credits for gas production and growth. This is going to be a topic, and in the course of my speech, I'm going to solve this manipulation of yours, Yuri Juryovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u151	First: about the declaration. The declaration is filed, and I see that you've seen it, because before that scandal you've been trying to stage, it's not there. According to the law you have established, the initial declaration is first given, and then information can be added for 7 days without any violation of the law you have enacted. Now it's about gas-price manipulation. I don't know if it's manipulation or not manipulation, but people are actually going to start paying an average of a third less for gas in February, because conversation and people need to pay less for gas. And we've made a real decision in the government that allows them to pay less, and gas-efficient companies have already announced their prices, and these prices are getting lower than 6.99. There's a lot of companies that, by the way, put the price even below 6.99, Naftogaz put out 6.86. These are real things, not words. And last of all, about mining. Any data, Crushing, official data, international data indicate that in 2018, compared to 2015, both the gross volume of production and the commodity release of gas, on which you tried to manipulate, cut down by 1 billion cubes per year. The fact that he fell for it and after that, I don't have anything to do with it. On the contrary, I criticized and offered suggestions on how to make sure that this was not the case. Same thing in Skrnaft: 7 percent in 2019 actually cut gas production. Check it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u152	Thank you, time for questions is up. Please sit down, Yuri Yuriovich. The chairman of the Energy and Housing Committee, Herus Andriy Mihajlovich, is invited to attend. Andrew Mikhailovich, that's not an important question to you, as I see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u153	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Today, the committee has carried out your commission to consider the application immediately. And by a majority of 14 votes out of 18, they endorsed the decision to appoint Vitrek Yuri Juryovich the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u154	Thank you for being so concise. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich. Leros Geo Bagratovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u155	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! I'm going to remind you of some facts regarding candidate Vitrek for this position. This man was the negotiator with Gazprom, not Mr. Kobolev, who was authorized to do so. Six months ago, I was talking about Mr. Jermak, the head of the U.S. President's Office, trying to put himself into gas contracts and get a cut. It is this initiative of lobbying this candidate that is in office. So I strongly urge the entire room not to support this candidature and not to help Mr. Jermak become a billionaire. And I'm going to remind myself of the tens of millions of dollars they've written down. It's not in Ukraine's best interests. Thank you. Don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u156	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u157	Please pass the word to Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u158	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u159	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear candidate for the post of minister, our faction certainly welcomes your initiative to move to direct gas supplies from the Russian Federation. We believe that this discount of 25 percent that you've offered will have an economic impact on the national economy and on the citizens of Ukraine. That's the first one. That's why we support your idea. And now essentially, what we have to say to you about those professional indicators that you didn't call today. First of all, first of all. If we're talking about gas transit, we have an exhaustive contract rate that was 55 billion cubes this year, then we're going to have 40. We are interested, first, in transit, in the amount of loading of our gas transport system, and what steps will be taken to do so? One. The other one. Last year we recovered 20 billion cubic meters of gas, equal to 20. What is the planned amount for the next five years? What is your program, and most importantly, what are the specific parameters? The third is about natural gas imports. This year, about 15 billion cubic metres of gas were planted at substantially lower prices than those on the market today. How will it be used for the needs of the population, taking into account the average customs value that today is $202? With regard to the modernization of the coal sector. We're completely out of line, and we haven't heard from you about the unwarranted imports of coal that amounted to almost 17 million tons a year. And that's because we're 28 million tons on our own, our mines are broke, and the miners have a huge debt to pay off their wages. These are the essential parameters that you haven't named today, standing up as an expert. One more moment. A lot of people are tying you, and we're actually tying you to NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, starting in 2014. I'm going to bring in the macro-indicators separately and actually the gas price indicators. When you were 14 years old, the price of gas for 1,000 cubes was 725 dollars 40 dollars, today is 8 thousand 800 dollars. This is going to be 6.99 plus 1 bracelet 79 per cube. This is unacceptable when you have so much increase in numbers, by 1,000 113 percent. The heating tariff has increased by 1223 percent, and the hot water tariff has increased by almost 560 percent. Your debt for utilities has increased from 12 billion to 66 billion dollars. And certainly, your initiatives to get the gas pipelines and gas operators from Slovakia, from Hungary, from Poland are countries that do not extract gas at all, and not include in the price and gas tariff the cost of shipping from Dusseldorf gas that is being extracted in the Poltav region. But we insist that you take all these macro indicators into account in the future. But we will not support your candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u160	Danuca Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u161	Thank you. Yuri Juryovich, I am addressing you as representative of Kirovgrad. And Kirovgradjska is the only region in Ukraine that has uranium mines: Ingula, Novocostinian, Smolin Mines And today we have a critical situation in this area. And I'm asking you on behalf of all the people's deputies who primarily support yours, including yours. I have no doubt that we will support you as an expert today. But from the Cypriots, from Kirovgrad, I ask you for one thing: uranium mines are the only mines in Ukraine, the largest is Novocostinovska, in Europe, they must be on special control. So on behalf of the miners, on behalf of Kirovgrad, I'm asking you to pay the most attention, within a reasonable, of course, for what we are, first of all, in Europe, in uranium mining, and we don't have to lose this position. Thank you. I support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u162	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u163	Susun Inna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u164	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u165	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Mr. Jury, we've talked to you many times, we know you as a good expert, I'll repeat you as a person with a very good education. The Voice Party would be willing to discuss the possibility of appointing you as the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the absence of a legitimately elected Minister of Education and Science in Ukraine today, but you are running for Minister of Energy. I really want to believe that you will be able to solve the problems that have now accumulated in energy in Ukraine, there are few of them. Of course, today's issue that we're talking about most often and most often is tariffs and prices. This is a difficult question, and we would like to understand clearly where we are going. We've heard a lot of different statements about what's actually going to happen in the energy field. It seems to me that the best illustration of a valid policy of power in this direction is Prime Minister Schmigal's statement that we support the gas market and that we are therefore introducing national regulation of gas prices. This phrase that actually shows that there is no clear policy in this sphere. And I would very much like this problem to be resolved so that we have a clear, clear energy policy, and what's important is that it be constant, so that it doesn't change in 2-3 days, so that it doesn't change with the change of the minister or with the change of government. Why is this important? Because Ukraine has been living for 30 years in the form of "how we can survive winter." We are constantly trying to survive the winter, and this is why we do not solve the complex underlying problems that lie both in energy and, unfortunately, in many other areas. So I would like the new Energy Minister to work strategically and think about the strategic problems that need to be solved in the field. Including the European Green Course, which Ukraine has declared to be joining, but unfortunately, there is very little understanding of how we are actually going to move in that direction. And it's important that the Ministry of Energy, including working to make it clear how we're going to reduce the carbon footprint. This also requires the adoption of the Energy Efficiency Act, which was considered yesterday by Parliament, as well as targeted strategic decisions on how to regulate and develop green energy in Ukraine. These are the issues where the Voice Party is ready to support the new Energy Minister, regardless of his name. I repeat, the question of the name of the Minister of Energy remains the responsibility of the party of power. Good luck in your new job if you make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u166	Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u167	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. I'm talking to the deputies, and I'm talking to the Ukrainians. Dear friends, any country that wants to develop and even survive in these conditions must have some logic in government. Tell me, please, how can it happen that one of the top managers of the "black hole" of the Ukrainian economy that's been robbing the past five years, even in the previous President and the previous government, with the help of the so-called gas market, used so-called reverse schemes to rob the Ukrainian people, how did it happen to be offered to us today as First Vice Prime Minister? Tell me, please, how did it happen that our State Auditorate audited Naftogazu NAC and found a violent violation of 75 billion unpaid taxes, 250 billion money used in an untargeted way and removed from circulation? How can this top manager today be considered for such a top position? These successive manipulations that we've heard deserve careful research. And it's not our fault, not the Fatherland, that the Supreme Council never managed to create a temporary investigation commission to find out that there was no increase in production, there were banal adjectives against an increase in production and technology losses. 1.5 billion record thefts were at Vitrenk's. Gas breakout. $60 billion was raised from the population. As a result, Crushing reduced by 5 percent last year's gas production. What are you talking about? I even want to ask you a question about morality. Just now, the candidate for the First Vice Prime Minister admitted that he did not deliberately contribute $4 million in a statement of bonus, but it turns out that according to the law, he will contribute a little later. Are you really convinced that this person today is capable of getting the country out of crisis? So I'm asking you very much and I'm addressing you. Friends, if any deputy who is going to vote for Mr. Vitrenk does not realize that he will take responsibility not only for these manipulations and promises, but primarily for that period and for all these thefts and for all these schemes of the previous five years, then forgive me, you will report, and we will report to the Ukrainian nard with you. And the last. Mr. Prime Minister, I understand your situation. I understand who actually lobbyed this nomination at the "Serial of the People" faction. Please tell me, would it not be logical to propose to Parliament, for example, a candidate for the prime minister of our committee, who has been convincing us all these years that he knows how to modernise the energy market, how to modernize the GCC, how to modernize the gas sector? So we don't understand your logic, and we certainly won't be manipulative about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u168	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u169	Sergey Shahov, Luganshina, Deputy Group "Trust". At last, opposition factions and groups reached the Cabin, and for the first time, ministers went to groups to communicate with the people’s deputies. At last, not only is the majority making decisions today. I'd like to pay attention today, thank God that all the factions and groups said they were miners. Someone lives in Kirovograd, someone in Volina, I live in Luhansk and was born there in a family of miners. Mother put air in the mine and answered, took responsibility for the lives of miners, and Father worked as a murderer. Unfortunately, you know, there are no parents, because one of the vice-premiers sunk mines in the '90s, just by his own volition, bullying the economy of our state. So, Yuri Juryovich, if you're voted here today, your first task is to check and inspect all the government mines: why they were sunk, why the state's authority is being undermined today. And it's an economic drive, it's energy, it's our state. It's important to note today that miners are not protected, they don't even have rescue workers in miners, they don't have specialty in miners. They were talking about pay today -- yes, thank God they paid the salary so there wouldn't be any miners hungry, no miners could celebrate their holiday before New Year's Eve, so they wouldn't stand at the financial institutions with their hands stretched out and take 200 percent, and then the collectors wouldn't kick that money out and take the house away. The main thing today is that state-owned enterprises and not only that are now "adopted" by oligarchs and gas wells, and so on, have not been upgraded, the entire energy system has been destroyed. And on your shoulders today, this responsibility is upon you personally, if you take on this task. Thank you for coming in today and explaining Kabmin's position, and personally yours. Thank you. Trust Group supports your candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u170	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u171	Dear friends, dear colleagues, we are all witnesses today of such a great theatre of absurdity that is taking place in this room with these government appointments. This government, look at everything that's been going on, this and the previous government essentially did everything they could to raise the tariffs in the country, so that they wouldn't change any heads of national energy companies that, as they were sitting on the schemes, lobbyed off-shore companies that were supplying gas to us here at double, triple, and they're sitting there, and it's all going on. This government continues to destroy nuclear energy by replacing the world’s most expensive energy — nuclear power — with the most expensive — solar, wind power, they are essentially destroying nuclear energy. This government continues to raise tariffs, and the government is already almost there plus minus 50 billion dollars. What are we talking about? There's no strategy. We're told how they're going to confidently build nuclear energy, build reactors. But they can't just account for the debt to the industry for the equipment placed at the atomic stations -- debt of 8-10 billion! Today's huge nuclear debt under new equipment, nobody's doing anything there. Look at the growth network in Europe to sell your own electricity -- it's all blocked. Because there's a single monopoly on electricity exports, which is playing again in this room today -- putting its leaders in Ukraine's energy supply. And in fact, the whole sector has been donated to a separate financial and industrial group that's already conducting it as much as it wants to earn as it can. But he's making money on who? He earns money in every country, earns money in the Ukrainian industry, and essentially destroys Ukraine’s energy and destroys Ukraine’s potential as a future industrial state, and by destroying, in fact, the ability of people to even pay for those utilities. The tariffs rose 11 times in comparison to literally 5 years ago. Tell me, is this government policy to be supported in this room? I don't understand at all the President of the country who allows this government to conduct such experiments on the country. I don't understand why the government and government officials don't give us any strategy to build new energy in Ukraine, how to clean up those schemes, how to clean up people who get millions of dollars and a million dollars a day's wages, and actually sit on the neck of every Ukrainian. Nothing has changed since the coming of the new authority. And this government doesn't want to change anything, it preserves the old schemes, and it starts the same people. So think! You live in this country and you explain to the voters what you and the President are doing. You "ministers of the people" are responsible for this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u172	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Take your seats and prepare for the vote. In harmony with article 85. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, all the performances were. For no reason, all the factions spoke, had a word, respected colleagues. In accordance with article 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to appoint Vitrenk Yuri Juryovich the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Ready. Please vote. [[13:46:49]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next question of the agenda. Show the factions, please. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Economic Security Bureau (Registration No. 3087-d). The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Vasilievska, member of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Vasilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhailovna, is invited to the rostrum. You just answer for the repairs. Dear colleagues, please! Dear colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. Tell me, who's going to insist on the papers? How many bars? Turn on the Coltunovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u173	Dear Mr. Golovo, the People's Mamka deputy of the faction has 166 amendments, and the people's deputy Burmić has 2 amendments. Mama's got about 50 amendments there, the rest, about 100, will insist on each of them in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u174	How much?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u175	About 100, there's a little bit less, 90 with extra.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u176	Are you going to insist on everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u177	Yeah. It's a toxic law, you need to hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u178	Then we have to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u179	By the table, we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u180	Then let's go to the table. Fuck. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, my report says very constructive things about the fact that this bill creates a new body, an organ of central executive power, an authority that will be given the authority to do so. Not in exchange for the old organs, but he'll be new. Why New? Because his status is revealed, he is exposed to independence as a processual and everything else in the work of an organ that has a law enforcement function. But his name was invented by the Bureau of Economic Security. My amendment says that it needs to be changed and given national status. The status of "national" increases the status of the authority to be given such powers. And the "national" status will stand out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u182	Thank you. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u183	The amendment is not supported because it contradicts the concept of the bill and is contrary to the Basic Law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u184	Thank you. Amendment number 1 of the Mamka People's Deputy shall be put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:04]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 2 of the Mamka People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u185	That's a very nice comment about something that doesn't fit the general concept. Where is the concept of reading it? How is it printed, advertised, or published? Were there hearings, discussions, or anything else in the creation of the new oran? The answer is obvious: There is no such concept. The answer number two is that the status "national" is in conflict with the Basic Law. Then I would like to explain that the Economic Security Bureau, with its status as "national", in Ukraine, is to carry out the necessary analogy, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Is it? There is no Constitution. National Securities Commission. The Securities Commission has national status and is not in the Constitution. What, then, is the answer that violates the status of the nation’s principal law?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u186	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u187	Dear Gregory Mikolaiovich, on the first reading, was adopted this bill with the name that it was adopted with, and until the second reading, we supported and adhered to this concept that it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an amendment to Amendment No. 2 of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:51:57]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 3. National MP, Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u189	I don't insist on 3 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u190	Thank you. Amendment number 4. I don't see who the author is. Amendment number five, National MP Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u191	Amendment number 5. I would still like to say that the voting procedure in the first reading, the submission of rights to a bill that was adopted as a basis, is essentially designed to amend the bill that was adopted on the basis of the law, the law and the adoption and the adoption of the bill, which is subject to discussion. The question of what is not a prohibition of acceptance in the first reading is not a concept. And my bill says that if the law refers to the status of the COW, which operates throughout Ukraine, which has international activities, because it also has international relations, it has to have "national" status. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u192	I'm betting on the vote number 5 of the Mamka People's Deputy. Unfortunately, the committee rejected it. Please identify and vote. [[13:54:01]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Lip. Don't insist. Kabachenko. Don't insist. It's a Southern. He insists. Please 18 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I support previous speakers in that if we, and business will not understand, and future workers, that we are actually effectively getting rid of and solving the problem of pressure on business, if we do not go through, if the law does not propose a full transition from a reactive approach in law enforcement to a risk-oriented, we will definitely have an old tax militia system, just with a new name. Therefore, my amendment refers exactly to the action of the new law enforcement body, which should counter the spread of criminal threats in the economic sphere by prevention, not as a result of the action after the establishment of the crime. Please support the 18th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u194	Thank you. 18 revisions, I'll take it into account. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:29]] For 68. The decision is not taken. It's cold. Don't insist. The watermelon. Don't insist. Ionushas. Don't insist. Tsymbaluk. Mikhail Mikhailovich, we're going to end up with you as we agreed, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u195	They're gone. It's partially accounted for. You're going to have a lot of lines and some of them, and not in part. You see, your 59th line is completely out of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u196	Mr. Chairman, I would like you to pay attention to the 11th amendment, because, please note, the National Bureau of Economic Security is the central body of executive authority on which the task of countering offences affecting the functioning of the economic state is based. And I'm sorry, is the investigation function a crime or a crime? I would suggest in my opinion that the National Bureau of Economic Security is the central authority of the executive branch that carries out law enforcement activities, is formed and subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in order to prevent the warning, detection and cessation of the investigation and detection of criminal offences attributed by law to its jurisdiction. The National Bureau is fully independent of the conduct of investigations and involvement in criminal proceedings. What's stupid is that it's not.?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u197	I'm betting on the 59th Amendment of Mama. It's important. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:45]] For-51 The decision is not taken. No. 61. Mamka Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill identifies and applies the concept of "other terms used in this law" and is not defined by it and is used in the meanings established by the Ukrainian legislation. Well, can I write it down? When there are deadlines, you have to write down what terms. Because we can work on these things: what law is going to be, and what authority is going to be. That all starts with a program: a program of government activity, a law that provides functions, authority, and body security. Then there will be, there will be work, there will be money that we will spend billions on. Then it will be true. My right is to exclude this rule of the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u199	I'll bet 61 on Mama's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:24]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, are you going to insist on all the paperwork? Everybody, right? 64 readjustment, Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u200	67th. I'm asking for my 67th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u201	Now, a minute. 67th, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u202	Oh, 68th, 69th and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u203	68th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, right now we're discussing the glossary of this bill. And it's very important that this law doesn't come out framed. Because he's very much. You know very well that this framework law will be absolutely ineffective if we don't accept the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Code and the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which are separate draft laws. So when we're talking now and then we're going to talk about when this law comes into effect, we have to understand that maybe those changes won't be adopted, and this law doesn't start working later than six months, and without certain definitions it has absolutely no analytical element. It's going to be an old law enforcement agency that's going to operate within a framework that we don't understand, and it's going to be even worse than a tax police. So I insisted on committee meetings so that all definitions would be adopted as recommended by our colleagues, the world organizations that insisted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u205	Thank you. I'm betting on the 68th edition of the jujanina vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:01:21]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 69 Jujanina’s law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u206	So, colleagues, I'm going to try to talk all the time essentially to let you know that we're creating an ineffective law enforcement agency. Operational analysis. An effective system for investigating criminal offences in the economic sphere should be based on a thorough and professional analysis of input and information. That's why I'm asking you to complete the glossary with the definition of "operational analysis." An operational analysis is not an analysis of an Excel board, it's a kind of criminal analysis, which consists of combining, evaluating, structuring, interpreting data and information, creating and testing hypotheses, conclusions to ensure the detection and investigation of criminal offences. This definition at the level of the law will ensure that it is used in the daily work of the new body, because everyone is now saying that we are all analyzing information. And for that, there's a definition, a clear definition, which is the analysis and what to do with it. Please support the 69th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u207	I'll bet you 69 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:02:53]] For-67 The decision is not taken. 72 papers, Eugene. Nina Petrovna, are you going to insist on everyone? Maybe it's a show anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u208	72 revisions. Dear colleagues, I have recently heard a group of experts concerned with the creation of a law enforcement body demonstrate a strategic analysis of fiscal security. So you realize that in the country, among top managers, no one understands us, and what do we do next with a strategic analysis, what does it give and how do we use it? That is why I propose to complement the glossary of the project with a definition: a strategic analysis is a form of criminal analysis, which is to identify and assess criminal threats in the State's economic security system with the aim of prioritizing and shaping administrative decisions in the long term on crime prevention and prevention, policy development and the development of crime programmes, which my colleagues have also talked about. If there is no such understanding, the body will not be able to work. This is another additional law enforcement agency without clear functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u209	There is 72 amendments to the vote, and the committee suggests that it be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[14:04:28]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 73. People's deputy of the South.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u210	What is strategy? That means the general's art. This is a general plan that colleagues from another faction have just talked about that that covers a long-term period of time and determines how to achieve an important goal. And there's nothing to laugh about. Because without a strategy, any activity becomes chaotic, low-efficiency or completely non-existent. That's why I've asked you to listen to all the specialists who have taken an active part in the work of the working groups on the committee, and to complete the glossary of the project as a "opportunity strategy." It's like a government program. If it's not there, what do you expect from the government? Bardak, full of non-professionalism. Therefore, the strategy of this new law - enforcement body must be made mandatory. Please support 73 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u211	A vote is taken on Amendment 73 of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:05:51]] For-65 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 74th. People's representative, Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, I'm continuing the glossary again. I don't understand why the committee didn't listen to these proposals, although much of the amendments were taken into account. And yet, from the beginning of 2018, when the draft law on the creation of the NBFB was first registered, we talked about that these definitions give us the opportunity to provide that risk-oriented approach and that strategy that we are trying to talk about with you that our activities of the new law enforcement body should be fundamentally different from that of the current tax police. And when colleagues think they're just analysts who sit back and collect information again, and now all law enforcement agencies are doing that. So the definition of information collection and its use, as in other countries, as recommended by OLAF, I asked for inclusion. You didn't do it. Please support the amendment in the hall. You decide, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u213	There is 74 amendments to the vote of the national deputy of Jujanina. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:07:22]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 75th. People's representative, Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, when we talk about what is a "risk-oriented approach to the work of the new body," we need to make it clear that it's not just the work of analytics, it's a job that includes analysis of data and the work of operational workers. 75 amendment adds to the glossary what tactical analysis is. Tactics are a combination of measures and actions that ensure that the goal is achieved with the slightest loss of energy, money, and time. Tactical analysis is a form of criminal analysis and is an assessment of the nature and patterns of criminal offences. Please support this amendment because it is important for the short-term and long-term purposes of the newly created body. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u215	I would like to vote on the amendment of 75 national deputies of the South. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:08:44]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 77. It's a Southern.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u216	You know, on this amendment, I'd like to go to the story anyway. Please tell me, why did you accept the key definitions for work, for system work, with a clear understanding, and for the new model of work of this body you didn't include? What was the reason? Why did you even decide on terms like "financial investigations," not to include them? Because it's a new body that's going to be based on this, it's going to be based on this. Please support your colleagues with this amendment. And then I'm probably going to stop by the glossary, and we're going to go back to 153. Mr. Head, do you copy?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u217	77th Amendment. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:09:56]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, distinguished colleagues, I have an offer, please listen. Mamka Grigory Mikolaiovich asks for three minutes. Wait, now. The zimbaluk Mikhailovich asks for 7 minutes, 71 allowances for him and three allowances for him. "Trust" doesn't insist on law enforcement? Oh, and Burmich. How many, two minutes? Two minutes is two minutes. "For the future" doesn't insist on law enforcement? Don't insist. There's a voter's license, you're good. How many bars? Four. And then, if you insist, we'll go back to your rights. We don't understand how long this is going to take, so I'm suggesting. Then let us take five minutes and follow such a procedure as has just been suggested. Okay? Then let's do that, and then to your right hand, if you don't mind. Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, 835. The bill proposes to exclude article 20, "Psysophysic survey using polygraph and psychological testing." Nowhere in the world has the results of a polygraph been recognized. Why? This is very subjective and unconfirmed. We want to make sure that what is not recognized as truth anywhere in the world, not in any country, cannot be brought into law. It's just an additional test that can help somewhere, but it can't be the basis for a decision to be made on the dignity of a candidate. I believe that this must be ruled out so that there is no injustice, no subjectivity, and no illegality. Because there will be lawsuits, you have to take this amendment into account, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u219	Repeat the correct number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u220	835.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u221	I'll bet you 835 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:12:40]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next issue, Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u222	1476. It refers to the fact that the economic component is being removed from the Security Service today. I think that until the Security Service Act is passed, this right should be taken into account, because we don't know what law will be passed on to the Security Service. So if we take it now, there's going to be a conflict and a conflict in the legislation: some will treat it that way, some will treat it that way. I think we should consider it. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u223	I'll bet you 1476 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:13:48]] For-58 No decision taken, no correction counted. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich. Three minutes, huh? Well, they asked their colleagues for three minutes. Three minutes, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u224	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I understand everything, but they're asking for three, and I'm asking for five instead. God be with him! Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this new body that is proposed to be created by this law. There is no national status; this body provides for international cooperation; the wings are taken away. The opposition offered, and it's not going to work effectively, we're just going to change the plate that's at the front door, "tax police," and we're going to change it to "Economic Security Bureau." Well, the abbreviation that looks like we've got U.S.A.P.D. We've got the National Police, the baby's gonna be, they're not! Let us not abuse the State bodies that we personally create by Parliament. I would like to point out that international practice shows the tremendous results of the creation and operation of such bodies. We suggested that there should be a warning, preventive function in the new body. 70 percent – this body should consist of the bodies that should monitor and involve the audit services. Among them is the State Audit Service, which has been reduced to 800 instead of 2,000,500. By Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers sold state-owned enterprises for five copies. Why the State Service? Let's include it in the new organ. Let's get financial monitoring up here, which is a separate organ. Are we ashamed of international partners? But if we were to include these two core bodies that have been trained to understand what they're saying (some of us colleagues don't understand what they're saying), they would be working in one core, and there would be 70 percent of the monitoring of financial activity. And then you would imagine a legal person or a FOP or a physical person who got a warning that you have a risky operation, you need to explain. And give it time. One month later, if any of the host institutions didn't understand these things, then let the investigating authorities give them authority, and let them deal with it. Then everything would be right, both by morals and by law. But unfortunately, we're either dancing under someone's "hotels" or we're getting credited. This body will not perform this basic function. I've tried with my rights to record, even though there's something to add to the new organ, that: (a) there's a difference between what there is right now and the new one working. No one wants to hear and give them opportunities, social protection and all that. But we're also adding and subtracting BSO functions. It's a law on BSS. I pay attention and I want to record under the transcript that a bill was adopted and recommended on the Committee of Law yesterday, which also takes one function and allows for a function of organized crime. I want to point out that there are so many contradictions here that it's definitely constitutionally unconstitutional. I tried to explain it to both the drafters of the bill and the committee, but unfortunately no one. They're going to create a new body, they're going to authorize it, and there's not going to be a result, and unfortunately no one's going to answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u225	Thank you. The next thing you know, it's the Cymbaluca. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, 7 minutes, please. Then we're going to put three adjustments on the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u226	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the honourable reporter! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. If it is necessary to say whether there is a need in the State for a law enforcement authority to document, investigate and refer crimes in the economic sphere to court, yes. Is it necessary for one law enforcement agency, but not a few to investigate these crimes -- definitely, yes. We remember the business reaction when the authorities announced the reorganization of the so - called tax police, but whether that was what was supposed to happen. This bill is an attempt to create a new law enforcement body as the central executive body. There are a few questions here, and I will not repeat what the speakers have said to me. The first is about the name. State Bureau of Economic Security. Why, in fact, without national status, what was the colleague talking about? In fact, we should have started with this. Next question. Why did the Law Enforcement Committee not work for the creation of such a body? Its scope is the consideration of such bills, not of the above - mentioned Committee of Finance and Customs. Next. Dear colleagues, it is indeed a law enforcement body that will be given all the powers to document, intervene in the personal lives of citizens, including their activities, to write letters, then to investigate and direct criminal conduct to the courts. This is a law enforcement agency that will have special powers and special divisions. I have a question: is this bill really standardizing the very framework of this new law enforcement body? If for the sake of justice, after the first reading, some things have been improved: that, in fact, the head of this body will be chosen by the commission and not appointed by the President, that this body will be subordinated to the government. But there are serious warnings. First of all, that certain norms and innovations of this law violate the requirements of the Constitution because of the absence of a completed legal regulation mechanism and the inadequacy of the principle of legal certainty, the unlimited treatment in law enforcement, is article 8. The absence of regulations on the competence of the subjects to perform the functions of the State is article 56. Not guaranteeing citizens the protection of banking secrecy, telephone conversations, correspondence, and privacy. Threats of security and protection of personal data are being created, conditions are being created for non-compliance with the requirements and recommendations of Ukrainian and European Union legislation. Also, when it comes to this law itself, it reproduces the main negative trends in tax police activity, which, by the way, has been operating outside the legal field for several years. There are also questions about the protection of the individual composition of the detectives. Although the number of draft laws is limited to 4,000, it should not be forgotten that detectives will be conducting the search and search, as well as the judicial investigation that we've been talking about. They will have access to all automated and help systems, registers, and so on. Although for the sake of justice, a selection of candidates to the office on a competitive basis, including the director, was made available for second reading. Although my suggestion was that the candidate should not only have legal education but also economic education. I'd like to say and ask the session room to support three revisions. First of all, it's number 159. She's talking. We suggest adding the article "The Source of Information needed to carry out a risk assessment package." And this article would allow the bill to be more comprehensive. The next thing I know, it's an article. readjustment, more faithfully, at number 397 for non-voice employees of the Bureau of Economic Security. These may be detectives, senior detectives, and other departments of the Economic Security Bureau. And the third one is number 413. We suggest that we complete the bill with an article on the core tasks of the Center of Competence and say what is the main task of the Centre of Competence. In general, I want to say that when I read this whole document almost completely before the second reading, I want to point out that the tasks that I, the authors of the bill before me at the initial stage, have not been solved. And if we adopt this bill, we'll create another law-enforcement monster. The Fatherland faction cannot support such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u227	Voice. No, I'm sorry, Mikhail Mikhailovich. I'm betting on the three revisions you insisted on. 159th. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:26:24]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 398 revisions. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:26:44]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 413 of Zimbaluka's right. The committee is not supported either. Please identify and vote. [[2:27:02]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next item. Ironman, 401.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, our faction will certainly support this bill. And I'm grateful to all the members of the financial and tax committee for working together on it. I hope that after the adoption of this law, we will truly have an independent, transparent, and effective body that will work with the business of numerals rather than hammers and machine guns. But unfortunately, we have examples where we have organs changing the name, for example, from AP to O.P., but it doesn't essentially change. And that's why I insist on a few revisions. The first amendment 401 is about limiting the number of employees. Now the bill is 4,000. I think it's too much. So with my permission, I propose to make 3,000 employees of the new body. Please put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u229	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Then, with your permission, I'll put these four in a row. 401th, right? Okay. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 401 of the Iron People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:28:37]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 609 of the People's Deputy of Železniak. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, the following law is the law required by all experts, and we have been recommended, including by other states that have already introduced an effective body that interacts with business. This is a 609, which says that we have a competitive commission that has to be really independent. The law now provides that three people are delegated to us by the Office of the President, three by the Supreme Council and three by the Cabinet of Ministers. I won't be discussing for long that the Office of the President has no such authority under the Constitution at all. But it seems to me that we all have to put together such a competition so that there is no question for the person who leads this body and we can trust it. So that's exactly what I'm insisting on. 609. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u231	Thank you. Amendment 609 of the Iron People's Deputy shall be put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[2:29:52]] For-76 The decision is not taken. And final amendment 1141. Jaroslav Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u232	Dear friends, unfortunately, I see that there is no potential for a more reforming version, but I will try to ask you to vote for this amendment. This amendment says that people who have worked with economic crimes between 2010 and 2015 cannot claim positions in the new body. Why is this done? In order for us to have one moment a lot of people, including the business nightmare, working for the Janukovich regime and so on, don't go into that body. And we've taken away truly independent experts, independent employees of the new body, which will ensure that this Bureau of Economic Security is functioning effectively. So please vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u233	Thank you. I'll bet you 1141. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:31:10]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Vasilchenko, two minutes. And then four confirmations. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u234	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Of course, Voice clearly believes it is necessary to uphold the law if it is preserved in its essence as its primary purpose. I mean, so that we don't create an additional law enforcement agency, but instead of creating it, instead of the tax police that it is, and taking the economics function of the BSS, which often exceeded their powers and in this way "stumbled" the business. That's why it's very important that in those terms, especially those mentioned in the bill, within six months, that's why it's all worked out, and the tax police have been eliminated accordingly. And my rights apply particularly to the number of employees who are to work in the newly created office. We don't understand why there's almost as much quantity as there is in the tax police. And the 408 revision, in particular, refers to reducing this number to 3,000, which is the maximum threshold. And three more amendments are 481, 482 and 483 -- they're related. Amendments relating to how the management of the Economic Security Bureau is to be chosen, such as who should be part of the competitive commission. And this is about proposals for international donors who have been helping us to create and function our anti-corruption bodies over the past two years so that their representatives can be involved. That's why I'm going to ask you, fellow members of the national parliament, to support these four important rights so that this body is truly effective and acts as a service body to help, to consult, to analyze our business. On the other hand, unfortunately, it has often happened when these powers are currently in the B.S.U. or the tax police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u235	I'll bet you four votes. 408th. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:33:53]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 481. Please identify and vote. [[14:34:12]] For-47 The decision is not taken. 482nd. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:34:30.]] For-48 The decision is not taken. 483rd. The committee is not supported either. Please identify and vote. [[14:34:48]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Dear colleagues, we've got about 15 more warrants to confirm. Will anyone else insist on the performance? You will? How much? Five straights. Maybe then let's give three minutes of performance and then we'll vote five. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please give Nina Petrovney three minutes. But first, Nina Petrovna, name the five rights for which we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u236	205th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u237	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u238	235.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u239	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u240	395th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u241	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u242	900.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u243	And?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u244	901.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u245	Thank you. Turn it back on for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u246	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, are not able to reach out to the working group, have failed, and are now unable to hear us. However, I would like to focus on the following. That's why you're assigning a director. If again he has no idea what a strategy against criminal threats must be built and presented. What are you going to do with this man? You realize that this is a new law enforcement body with an entirely new system of work, which will be the basis of this organ's work, it's a risk-oriented component. So, in my amendment, in one of them, I suggested that the strategy of countering the criminal threats in the economic sphere be developed by the director for six months. If this person has no idea how to continue working in this particular area and with such approaches, you have to say good-bye to such a director, otherwise nothing will work out. The next block is Information Resources. If we're talking about analysis and a risk-oriented approach, we're building work on prejudice, crime prevention, and we need a lot of information to do that. If you don't now specify in this law exactly what sources of information existing central authorities will use the new law enforcement agency, it won't get anything. As you wrote in one of the amendments, it will be obtained within the limits of the law, that is, within the limits of the agreements between the two services and the communication protocols. You assume that the head of the new body will work for a long time. And if six months goes by, this service won't work, or it'll only work in the old ways. So I don't understand why you didn't build a system of information and interaction with other bodies like that in European countries. This amendment merely repeated the analogy in order for Ukraine to be able to do so. The next amendment, the next block, refers to the fact that the Bureau of Economic Security has delegated powers to the development and approval of the methodology for the investigation of individual types of crime. This must be done. Because today there are no modern methods of investigating tax crimes that are based on a risk-oriented approach. You know, unfortunately, today, no specialized school has been developing such techniques, and this situation has remained constant for many years. Unless there's such a thing as a method that he's going to do.?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u247	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. I'll bet you 205 votes, Jujanina. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:39:06]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. 235 revisions, please identify and vote. [[14:39:23]] For-73 The decision is not taken. 395 axle. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:39:42]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 900 lashes. The committee is also dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[14:40:01]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Ninety-one. Please identify and vote. [[14:40:19]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Let's go to confirmation. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Katchura Alexander Anatolyevich minute And after that adjustment, a lot of rights. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u248	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. It's actually the right bill. It's bad that we didn't vote it out for the first time, because there's probably a spoon in every spoon of honey. We should certainly vote on the bill as a whole, but I'm going to ask for some confirmation, because they're harmful. And these changes, they don't make it possible to reduce the pressure on business, and these changes, they do everything they can to make the pressure go up. So let's vote red against the pressure on business. And the legislative initiative itself, it was on our agenda, and the People's Servant Party, and that's what President Greensky promised, so we have to support it. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote red.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to read the license numbers. Olga Mikhailovna, you will comment. 1451, 1469, 1470, 1471, 1484, 1485, 1486, 1491, 492. Is this 1492th? 1493 and 1490.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u250	One of the promises of both the previous authorities and our party and President Vladimir Zelensky was the creation of a single body to investigate financial and economic crimes. These crimes are now being investigated by all other law enforcement agencies — both the S.B.I., and the D.F.S.P.D., and the National Police. We need to focus on handing these functions over to the only organ. This is an international experience, and it will speak and testify to the effectiveness of this body. These rights must now be confirmed because they deprive the Ukrainian Security Service of the right to investigate economic crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, ready to vote? David Georgiyovich, without you at all, please sit down. I'm betting on the vote number 1450 for confirmation. Ready to vote? Please support and vote 1450. Sorry, 1451. [[14:43:53]] For 273 Decision taken. 1469. Please support and vote. [[14:44:12]] For 257 Decision taken. 1470. Please support and vote. [[14:44:29]] For 273 Decision taken. Why don't we go through? I'm so sure they'll get all the paperwork. Can we skip them? [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you insisting? Let's at least do it this way: through one. Okay? 1484. Please support and vote. [[14:45:01]] For 273 1491. Please support and vote. [[14:45:18]] For 277 1493. They're all going to. Last bet, okay? Please support and vote 1493 for confirmation. [[14:45:38]] For 282 Decision accepted, correction confirmed. Polyakov Anton Eduardowicz four drafts. I'll put them to a vote right away if you don't mind. I'll bet you a vote of 14,77. Please support and vote, 1477. [[14:46:07]] For 259. Decision taken. 1487. Please support and vote. [[14:46:26]] For 265 Decision taken. 1488. Please support and vote. [[14:46:43]] For 257 Decision taken. 1490. Please support and vote. [[14:47:01]] For 257 The amendment is confirmed in the form in which the committee proposed it. Why don't we just vote, we don't have time to keep this meeting going? [[B in m in s a l in]] Arthur Volodymyrovich, the hour is short. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, at least you read what 177 amendment says. It is absolutely absurd once again that any instructions, proposals, requirements, missions to the BEB and its employees relating to questions of pretrial investigation in specific criminal conduct and not provided for by the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine are illegal and not subject to enforcement. In the event of such instructions, demands, assignments, and so forth, the director of the BEB, the employee of BEB, will immediately inform the legal authorities in writing. What are the instructions, and who can give the baby if it is an independent body with such status? What law enforcement authorities should report what action will be taken by other law enforcement agencies on these issues, and what exactly should they report? And how's it going around the director? In the first reading, some coordination with other law enforcement agencies was made possible by the director, and the staff of the BBC were added. Please, 177 and.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u253	I'll bet you 177 votes. It is supported by the committee, so it supports 177 amendments. Please support and vote. [[14:49:00]] For 255 Decision taken. 180 revisions, also supported by the committee. I'll put her to the vote. Please support and vote. [[14:49:29]] For 246 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. And one more minute, Eugene, two tickets. And then we go to voting for the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u254	I'm very fast. Respectful colleagues, such as the information that the baby will receive, will not even analyze and appreciate its authenticity and reliability of its sources of origin. All the open sources, everything that's written on Facebook is already information that's not going to be evaluated or systematized and, of course, further actions. So I welcome you, you're creating even worse than the tax police, because, to a certain extent, it's clearly described in the Ukrainian Tax Code. So no fight against crime in the economic sphere, no help to the business, everything, as it were, will be even worse. So if this law is signed by the President, it will be his greatest disgrace. Hello.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u255	I'll bet you 197 votes. It's supported by the committee. Please support and vote. 197 law. [[14:50:52]] For 243 Decision taken. 201 the amendment, also supported by the committee, is supported by confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:51:12]] For 245 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on the Ukrainian Bureau of Economic Security (Registration No. 3087-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:51:44]] For 242 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Arahami is a procedure. Let's see the factions. Show by factions. "People's Servant" – 201, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "The Future Party" – 3, "The Voice" – 15, "The Trust" – 17, "the Non-Factional" – 5. Arahami is a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u256	Colleagues, considering that these are related bills, I propose that we now move to consider a bill on the BSS, which is very much to be considered by society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u257	Is there no objection? None. I'm continuing the meeting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then I'll put this proposal to the vote. I would like to vote on a change in the procedure for today's plenary session to now move to the draft registration number 3196-d. Ready to vote? Please support and vote on the proposal of Arahamaia. Please support and vote. [[14:52:58]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I continue this meeting for 15 minutes, until the end of the day. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:53:27]] For 241 Decision taken. The deputy head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee, Beggle Marian Volodymyryn, is invited to attend. Give it four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u258	Thank you. Fellow citizens of Ukraine! The reform of the Ukrainian Security Service is not only a requirement of time and a vital requirement for our country in terms of armed aggression, but also a follow-up to Ukraine's further Euro-Atlantic integration. The formal reform of the Ukrainian Security Service has been going on for more than 15 years. And the basic law under which it functions was passed back in 1992. Not only has the security situation changed, but the state’s recent history illustrates the need to strengthen the protection of national security, constitutional order, and territorial integrity. During more than five appeals in Parliament, the issue was not resolved. And you and I have taken the first real step in this direction. The draft Law 3196, which was re-readed by the President, was drafted into a working group on the basis of a committee for the broad participation of both representatives of the authorities and national deputies and representatives of civil society. Also during the process, some standards of 3196-1 alternative and 3080 were taken into account. The amended bill introduces conceptual changes such as: strengthening counter-investigative activities; protecting national statehood and protecting state secrets such as the priority directions for BSB activities; expanding powers in the field of counter-investigative and counter-terrorism activities; depriving impervious, duplicative law enforcement functions and corruption risks; progressively optimizing the organizational structure and state-of-the-art numbers together with increasing social guarantees for security workers and resolving the long-term legal coalition that exists as a result of the combination of law enforcement and counter-intelligence activities. In order to implement the reform, the Final Positions proposed implementing rules and a package of amendments to 36 laws in Ukraine. Comments to the bill by individual committees of the Supreme Council and the National Deputies, according to the authorities, will be processed and not critical. In particular, it will be necessary to deal with the profile committees for the second reading of the bill in order to prevent the arbitrary disqualification of television licenses and the arbitrary withdrawal from political parties. Thus, the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of a review of the project on a re-first reading to take it as a basis. Anexia Crimea, war in the east, thousands of deaths, millions of people with broken fates -- this is the cost of delaying the creation of a real internal security service. So I would like to support, my fellow Members, and join in preparing for such vital changes in the country that will save our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u259	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u260	Pass it to Costenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u261	Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u262	Dear colleagues, I have served for 11 years in the Ukrainian Security Service, and I believe that this bill is an optimal product and a compromise between the various positions: the positions of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Committees of the Supreme Council of National Security, Defence and Intelligence and the Committee of Law Enforcement, the Security Council, national and foreign expert organizations. The drafting process of this bill was very difficult because all participants had a vision of reform, but this bill should be the basis for further positive long-awaited changes. In particular, the bill proposes the elimination of non-proprietary functions in the investigation of economic and corruption crimes; demilitarization of the service; elimination of the investigation that converts the BSS into a modern service; and strengthening the social security of employees and many other changes. Yes, it has issues to discuss, and we're going to do it in the second reading, but we don't have to stop the reform now. Almost all the political forces that went to parliament spoke of the need to reform the Ukrainian Security Service. And now we see that this is what we need to do. So let's give the momentum to change, because if there's another chance, we don't know, it might not be. The Voice faction will support this bill and urge everyone to do so. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u263	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u264	Please pass the word to Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u265	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Is it? You don't? I can't see. You don't? Oh, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u266	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. It is absolutely logical that after the adoption of the Economic Security Bureau Act, the corresponding functions that the Ukrainian Security Service had had will now be removed. I sincerely wish to the members of our Security Service that you catch, catch, and protect our spies. And the economy needs to be done by others. That's why our faction supports this bill and we'll vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u267	Thank you. Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u268	Please give the word to a colleague after the faction of Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u269	Krzemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u270	Good afternoon, dear fellows! If I may, I'd like to draw your attention to another subject. First. This bill, number 3080, is a bill on the Ukrainian Security Service, which was registered by me, Burmich, Twitter, Tsimbaluk, those generals who know what operational work is and what the Security Service is. This bill, 3080, disappeared after being considered on the committee, is not available today, there is only one - 3196. He disappeared in violation of article 100 of the Rules, in violation of article 92. So we registered him on February 18th, and they registered on March 10th, didn't make it and changed the name. It's "preciousness." That's the first one. Second, colleagues. Why do they fear that this bill will be viewed as an alternative today? Well, the principle of competition, it must be. It's an insult to us as deputies. Because, first of all, we've analyzed with the experts at the Academy of Air Services, which, by the way, in this project they want to eliminate in order to recruit employees by advert, and the agency, sorry, on the Internet. And this is going to be a very interesting service, this time. And the second. They are afraid because we have analyzed the work of 35 EU special services, NATO, which clearly states that 17 special services are working on a counter-intelligence protection line for industry, counter-intelligence protection for the economy, and, more specifically, 18 European countries are working today to counter-investigative protection of corruption issues. Why? Because today it is easy and easy to recruit a corrupt official who will then work for an enemy and a traitor. And that's what happens during the war. So our faction is not going to vote for it, any more than that, we resent having to rule us out of this process, the authors who are from the opposition factions. And I think this bill should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u271	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u272	Dear colleagues, it has happened that I am not the first to be called, and I have had the opportunity to hear from this rostrum people who have called for a vote in favour of the historic bill without having a profession, an experience in the field for which they have saved the election in favour of a bill. Think of the sad reform of medicine. In the past call from this rostrum several days in a row, she was called upon to vote on Irina Sisoyenko, whose diploma was a lawyer obtained in one, for example, not from the best universities in Ukraine by rating. And I was surprised to learn why all former health ministers are firmly opposed to this medical reform that we are experiencing today. And Irina Sisoyenko, who didn't cut the ass in medicine, urged her to vote. I don't want to, I don't understand the system any better than the three generals who just referred to Mr. Cosemiakin. He is the general of the BSO, the general of the BSO and the Burmić. But I'm surprised, like everyone in this room, that a girl, 32 years old, who worked in the health system, and not a day, I hope she hasn't officially worked in this structure, is urging us to vote for one of the very important documents that can change a lot, considering that we're a warring country. They want 6,000 people to cut esbeachers in the next year and ten more in the next two. It's a country that's running a war. What do they smoke? We will vote against this categorically, and we call on the entire room not to support this shameful reform. Although something does not go right, a comprehensive document is needed that is supported by people working in this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u273	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u274	Dear colleagues, despite the little parliamentary experience, over a year and a half, I've noticed many times that whatever we do with you, every now and then we build a government, for example, and it comes out as the Council of Ministers of the Soviet Union. One of us is building parties, and the other one is CPRS. Unfortunately, this fate has not been missed by our Ukrainian Security Service, which has not been done with it in recent years, is very and very similar to the KGB of the Soviet Union. And today, I cannot agree with the previous speaker without exaggerating the historic day. You and I have the ability to really bring the service closer to better European standards. Having knocked out his teeth and focused her efforts on what she understands better than anything else — the fight against espionage and counterintelligence. Remove the status of "fowl," remove the status of an additional lever, whichever effective it may seem, from any active authority. Of course, what we are offered is not ideal, and the law certainly has faults that require hard work. One such flaw, for example, is virtually beyond the court procedure for withdrawing the party from the election at the conclusion of the BSB, but we are ready for this work. And I want to remind supporters of historical classics and historical approaches that have been burdened with experience, of the agitation poster of the mid-starved '50s.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u275	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Now, Shahov, Kachura, we vote after this. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Chess.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u276	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, surely, must support the Ukrainian Security Service, but the Ukrainian Security Service should do what? He has to catch criminals, he has to catch traitors of our state. And today, in the Luhansk region, there are excruciating incidents when an A.R.U.U. gets into business, intimidates MPs, intimidates people today, stalls humanitarian cargo when there is no election. And you don't have to say, there's Shahov, not Shahov, he just intervenes on orders from the head of the military civilian administration and soaks up his firms on various tender issues. Is that what the Ukrainian Security Service should do? I'm going to John Bakanov to look into the Luhansk region and sort things out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u277	And the final performance is Catchure, one minute, and we're going to vote. Prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u278	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Our political faction will support the bill in the first reading, but clearly the drafters of the bill, more specifically the committee, because the bill's author is President of Ukraine Volodymyr Alexanderovich Zelenski, in order to replace and change the form and content of the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service itself so engrosssed in that a little bit of the law laid down very dangerous things. Let me give you just a few examples. For example, a reduction in the number of the Ukrainian Security Service to 10,000. It's actually raising the white flag in front of other countries. Russian Federation: FSB - 1384 employees per million. In Ukraine, 645. As far as the investigation is concerned. The investigation is to be removed from January 1, 2024, but it is not stipulated who will perform the functions performed by the Ukrainian Security Service. And finally, what's with medicine, why is medicine being taken away from all the institutions in the U.S.A.? Why there's a DOD defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-01-28-m0.u279	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Security Service Act to improve the organizational and legal principles of the Ukrainian Security Service (registration number 3196-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:09:51]] For 285 Decision taken. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's see the factions.
