ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! With regard to the requirement of 154 Ukrainian National Deputies and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to review the draft Decree (Registration No. 5299) on the use of urgent measures aimed at putting an end to the inaction of executive authorities in the area of resistance to the spread of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by the coronavirus SARS-COV-2 and ensuring the continued implementation of decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted in this area. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. At the same time as the national MPs come in, I remind you that the next consecutive meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin immediately thereafter. And one more thing. At the request of your colleagues, I appeal to all the national MPs, especially those who use acos. There's no "IQOS free" or "Friendly zone" in the towers. Please don't let us show this video to respected journalists, there are no examples of how national MPs are breaking the law on their own. Do we have a deal? Thank you. Are you ready to register? Please register. I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left. He's still got it. Please register. [[16:01:52]] There are 201 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I'd like to start with a positive. In time, the number of Ukrainians who were vaccinated and given two doses of vaccine, as the medical protocol provides, doubled. Yesterday there were five of them, and today there are nine. At the same time, the total number of vaccines is just over 11,000, and we still have 5 years of collective immunity, and only 539 000 received the first injection, which is less than 1.5 percent. But I'm not talking about the European Union anymore because the average is over 10 percent. We are now far from Angola, Bangladesh, Equatorial Guinea, Zimbabwe, and many other Third World countries. Vaccination is the cornerstone of a well-known antiquities plan for "European Solidarity", which is the head of the Supreme Council's draft decree. And I thank you very much for all the factions that signed the signed letters, and we've collected 154 signatures. Unfortunately, the majority of us have no signature, and the risk is that they will become irresponsible accomplices to the criminal inaction of the active authorities. Now they want to make Minister Stepanov. That's where he goes! But I want to point out that breaking the test program is Zelensky's responsibility! Breaking up new beds in hospitals equipped with oxygen is Zelensky's responsibility! Protecting doctors is Zelensky's responsibility! And it's Zelensky's responsibility to make the vaccination contracts in a timely manner! So we've put forward a draft regulation to ensure equal access to safe and high-quality vaccines. To declare independent and unsatisfactory implementation of the Supreme Council Regulation on Measures to Resist the Dissemination of Coronavirus. The responsibility for the actual collapse of the vaccination provided by the road map is to provide for the active authority. And if necessary, we are ready to take part in the RNA session and, together, to stop the pandemic. I call for a vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u3	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. Also, a break with a replacement for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u4	Dear Ukrainians, in my hands the order of this tenth day for this session of the extracurricular session, initiated by the predominant "Serve of the People" party. It contains 13 items of order: metal scrap, to remove 600 million bracelets from the Paralympic sport and to pass it on to the judges of the local courts of appeal. This is about science parks, advertising, and more. With all due respect to the authors of these bills, I think there are problems that concern our citizens today much more. And the first problem is the East War. Yesterday, Putin, by his decree, introduced training for all reserve personnel. And just to avoid Shoega's claim, it's about taking their armed contingents away by only 10,000 people from Crimea. Everyone else is still on the Ukrainian-Russian border. But we don't discuss these issues. During these 10 sessions, in addition to the plenary sessions, I'm sorry, we've only dealt with defence twice. And today there is no denunciation of the Agreement with the Russian Federation on the Common Use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait. I saw on Saturday the Russian Federation's fairies ship five miles from Mariupol and experts say that there are countless of these ships all over the perimeter. And we don't even pay attention to that. In this order of affairs, there is still no question of the creation of territorial defence, not of where every head of OTG or city wants or does not want to do or does not do it, but of the real one that the ORP talked about last year, and they promised and swore that by the end of last year, President Zelenski would bring it to the Supreme Council for consideration. In the end, there is no question of the military chaplains -- priests who, for seven years in advance, save the souls of our military, who are forced to fight the aggressor. The Society, even those bills and draft regulations that the opposition has put forward, do not find support in this room, as was last plenary week, where we proposed that the MP's Party for the Future be postponed for a year's increase in electricity tariffs, it has received less than 200 votes. We have three more working days, we have the opportunity to adjust the agenda and bring out what concerns our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u5	Thank you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the use of urgent measures aimed at halting the inaction of executive organs in the field of resistance to the spread of acute respiratory disease COVID-19. You've been given a job, but we don't vote yet. Nestor Ivanovich, don't you want to speak? They took it and turned away. .stricken respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2 and ensuring the sustained implementation of decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine taken in this area (registration number 5299). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:09:56]] For 272 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:10:22]] For 233 Decision taken. Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, a national deputy of Ukraine, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u6	Respectful Ukrainians are certainly the subjects around which political elites are to unite, and such problems include the security of the State and the pandemic. That is why European Solidarity, as a political power of the state, has proposed that a decision be taken to recognize the priorities of public health policy for this year to ensure equal access for the population to vaccines, mass vaccination. I don't think there will be any people in this room who won't agree that vaccination today is a matter of national security. And once again, we thank all, without exception, the unconquered factions that supported this decree. The position of the committee of profile, which voted against essentially Ukrainian doctors and Ukrainian patients, is quite surprising, in fact. Because it is true in this decree that the full responsibility for incompetence, for medical corruption, for lying is the world's champion in the fight against the coronavirus, Mr. Greensky and his "young team." In fact, the Green Mr. Stephen's Order is to serve that today he has taken on the entire negativity of this team, even though the failures all belong to this entire team. Zelensky promised the country, his respected colleagues, to return all the Ukrainians home without saying it would be a nonvaccination. He promised the doctors the wages of 20,000 dollars, me and Prashenko returned from Cherkas, the wages of the medics of 5,000 or 6,000 dollars, and your Governor Skicko still forbids doctors from communicating with the opposition. In fact, we're now proposing in this session room to support every doctor, to support the right of Ukrainians to life, and that means the vaccine, there can't be any of the others who get it, and there can't be any more. And that's not right, 6.5.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u7	The head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance of Kuzminy Sergey Volodymyrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u8	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, fellows of honor! The Committee on National Health, Health Care and Health Insurance has considered your consideration of the draft Decree (Registration No. 5299) on the use of urgent measures aimed at putting an end to the inaction of executive organs in the field of resistance to the spread of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by the coronavirus and ensuring the continued implementation of the decisions of the Supreme Council have been taken in this area. The draft decision proposes that Parliament assess the work of the government and personally of the President of Ukraine, based on the state of implementation of Supreme Council Regulation No. 937 of 20 October 2020 on measures to counter the spread of coronary disease and to protect all systems of activity of the country from the negative effects of the pandemic and new biological threats, without reporting to the government on its state of implementation. At the same time, Parliament did not comprehensively consider the implementation of this ruling by excluding the Prime Minister's fragmentary report on the move and implementation two weeks after its adoption, which apparently makes it impossible to draw objective conclusions. Therefore, after discussing the status of the project, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decree (registration number 5299) to reject. I am also informed that the Committee has already prepared an appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council to all parliamentary factions and groups asking to initiate a review of the report of the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status and security of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the implementation of the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 20.10.20, number 937 and during one of the next "years of questions to the Government". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u9	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Laba Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Dmitri Valeriovich Laba.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u10	Please give it to Raducci.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u11	Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, at the committee meeting today, we have really considered the determination, and there are really some things that are very useful in this determination. But, dear fellows, how can we appreciate the failure of the government to comply with a decision that was taken by the Supreme Council by a majority vote in October months, if there was no decision. If the government's execution report for October wasn't there? That is why the committee decided today. At his meeting, I made two decisions. The first decision is to reject this decision, and the second is to refer to all factions of MPs and groups requiring the report of Prime Minister Smigal of Ukraine on the implementation of the October decree, and then to take a decision that will assess the government's actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u13	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u14	Please hand over Stephanie Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u15	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, on May 7, we will be with you to celebrate the anniversary of our adoption of the Law on the Preparation of Hospitals and Equipment for the Second, Third Wave and Temporary Hospitals. I think that each one of you here today understands how the Ministry of Health is implementing our laws and regulations. I think each of you have experienced real grief since COVID-19, when your closest friends and even your relatives are dying. Why is this happening? Because we have an incompetent minister. And whatever we approve of today, we will support the decision you made in Parliament, but unfortunately, it won't be done, because all our efforts go to the sand. Soon it will be six months before the countries of the world inoculate their citizens. A billion people from COVID-19 in the world have recently been vaccinated. We have a small amount of vaccine, which means that people just die without vaccines. We're going to be inoculating our citizens at this rate for another 10 years. And you and I are probably never going to join the European Union again, because we're just not going to have a vaccine passport or it's going to be empty. Colleagues, there's a way out. We've been collecting signatures for Maxim Stepanov's resignation for six months. I've got a document here. I've already got 130 signatures. We only have 20 signatures of yours that are not enough for us to finally put Parliament on the agenda today to ask whether this minister deserves to be in office. I know for a fact that I don't, and I know exactly that there are people in this room who feel that way. Please, I'm there collecting these signatures. Indeed, in a few days we can free a person from this occupation of the Ministry of Health, which kills 500 people a day each day. Please come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u17	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, our faction is ready to sign under every paragraph of this decree, but there is one small nuance. When we hear from the profile committee that there's not enough evidence to clearly evaluate the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, it's surprising to a lesser extent. You know, we're looking at the numbers of people who are sick, cured, scary numbers of those who are dead. But the whole world is looking at other numbers. There has already been a site where there is clear information about how many people are vaccinated in the world on a daily basis. And these numbers are amazing, these numbers are the exact opposite, which are in the first report and in the second report, the number of patients and the number of vaccines. I don't think even the biggest skeptics are going to have any arguments against vaccination. But there is one more question. It's not just the rate of vaccination, it's a question of what happens next, how these processes are being followed. If Israel has already developed a second vaccination program six months later, including children, think about it, we can't even provide basic things that rely directly on government, and that's a direct responsibility. That's why we're not suggesting that we don't look for the outcast, and we're proposing that we make a clear decision that we've all voted for with you, walk through every paragraph of this decree and determine whether the government is responsible or not? And when we define it -- no doubt responsible -- we need to make the right decisions. Our faction will vote in favour of this text of the decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u19	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u20	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u21	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u22	Thank you. Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we show once again our willingness to unite around the issues that are important to the lives of our citizens. In direct terms for the lives of our citizens, because they are now left alone by COVID, and doctors who are now giving their health and life for the Ukrainians. Not today’s authorities are concerned about Ukrainians, but Ukrainians are concerned about themselves. We're meeting today for an emergency meeting on coping with the COVID crisis. The next consecutive sitting, it doesn't take into account the view of the opposition as to the order of the day. That's why we're going to leave him in protest. Now I want to give you a couple of examples. Hungary will pass the equator this week – more than half of Hungarians will be vaccinated. Serbia, I was told, Hungary is the European Union, Serbia is not a European Union country, they're going to be inoculated today about half, 8.5 people, more than 3 million vaccines. And today they're organizing what's called vaccination tourism. They have Pfizer, Satellite, CoviShield, Chinese vaccines, please, you can get the vaccine for money. We've got 550 grand. Then there's the question of who to resign -- all power away, starting with Smygal! Today, we are watching closely the situation surrounding the minister of health. I signed the resignation order, but not for the sake of the various "voices" Laska, who is primarily responsible for what is happening today with the situation around the coronavirus. That is why today we demand the responsibility of the President, the Prime Minister, of all authority in general. And people need help. This decision must be implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u23	It's from Honcharenko's motives. Two minutes and we'll go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Alexeiovich Honcharenko
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u24	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, look, two consecutive sessions. One that is gathered by the opposition, from the initiative "European Solidarity" by COVID and the only faction that has not signed for this consecutive session is "Serve of the People". And the other thing that the "ministers of the people" are gathering, whatever it is: the financial companies, the metallurgy you want to find there, COVID isn't there. So is there a problem in the state of COVID, or isn't there? Maybe we're here in Israel, where after they've vaccinated their population, no one dies of COVID? And in Ukraine, 200, 300, 400 people a day. Ukraine pays with blood for the irresponsibility, helplessness, and mess in this power. Zimbabwe is 47,000 fully vaccinated people. Ukraine is 5. Five people for more than 40 million people. Stop. Power to resign immediately. Greensky is the main one in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u25	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u26	Anton Polyakov, Chernigovishte. Dear colleagues, I would like to support this clear decision because it finally calls for clear action and accountability. These are not the decisions we voted for before. What do we have in fact? We don't have beds. We don't have any vaccines. We're not reinstated. Small - scale vaccines are purchased through lining companies, and billions of dollars are being blown apart. Billions of dollars were being set up through a hedge fund. And what do we have for all of this? President Zelensky and his entire team are responsible for all of this. And I'm sad to mention how sad he said two years ago at the stadium, "I'm your judgment." I'm sure Zelensky will be the first president of Ukraine to get his term and sentence. And his entire team, this whole 95 block thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m1.u27	Ready to vote? The committee’s decision was rejected. But it is up to the vote, as always the proposal to take a decision in general. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Ordinance on the Use of Urgent Measures to End the Inaction of Executive Authorities in Resilience to the spread of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2 and to ensure the smooth implementation of the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted in this area (registration number 5299). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[16:27:19]] For 115 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. Show by factions. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
