ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please prepare for registration. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, ready to register? I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left, or the pro button. Ready? Please register. [[10:05:29]] There are 180 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Vladimir Illich Ivanov. [[Applause]] I want health, strength, success, victory, and the best! And I remind you that today, according to article 25 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have up to 30 minutes to speak on behalf of the deputies with announcements, messages and proposals. Please sign up for the presentations by the Ukrainian national deputies. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich. Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u2	Good morning, dear fellows! But it's not good for many Ukrainians this morning, because yesterday Parliament collapsed one of the most important laws for the health system -- Bill 5596 on the legalization of medical cannabis. Yesterday, there was a lot of lies from this rostrum, as well as a Russian narrative, because the Russian Federation itself is fighting against the preservation of human rights in Ukraine. And the Health Cannabis Act is about human rights to a decent life, to a worthy treatment, and to a worthy death. Because medical cannabis helps people with oncology to live a normal life, and it also helps them to leave the world with dignity. Yesterday, I was approached by a number of patient organizations that would look by the name of which one of you didn't vote in favour of this law yesterday. You will all go to the beach, on vacations, and you will live normally all these months, and people will suffer because one of you yesterday lacked the courage to help over 2 million sick Ukrainians. I'm ashamed of you!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u3	Wrenchek Irina Andriyevna. Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u4	Dear colleagues and voters, I would like to draw your attention to the critical situation in the U.K. State Reserve. To date, the Reserve is demonstrating an ineffective policy of implementing its basic tasks. Since May 20th, Mikita Barabbas has been the interim leader of the Reserve. As a result of his activities, the Reserve’s reserves are not being updated. Dozens of reports of corruption have been recorded, and numerous criminal acts have been opened regarding the temporary directors of state-owned enterprises. As for the state-owned enterprise Bread Base 76, which is within my electoral district of 132, where the interim management of the Reservoir for the 20th to 21st years was assigned to five managers. In the 20th year, criminal proceedings were opened regarding the theft of 158 tons of grain in relation to the management of the Bread Base 76. The case has already been brought to trial. A resonant event recently reoccurred. On 24 May, the export of grain from the Bread Base DP was found to be about 300 tons of grain, which resulted in the discovery of criminal conduct by NABU. The company is now in critical condition. Although the company itself has great potential and is one of the most promising crops in the southern region of Ukraine. I have made numerous calls to the interim head of the Reserve and have had several meetings. However, this did not work. To this day, finally, it has been done (pay attention!) The third competition for the head of the State Reserve is the winner. And this winner is not Mikita Barabbas. However, the close environment of the Prime Minister is trying to postpone, at least, the results of the competition as much as possible. You'll ask why. Because it's given to another person, but it's given to another person. The documents on the appointment of the Head of the Reserve have been in Kabmin for a long time, even though the competition has been conducted according to current legislation. This process is deliberately prolonged by the close environment of the Prime Minister to leave Mikita Barabas, who, as we can see, is an inefficient leader and does not handle his responsibilities. Now, from this rostrum, I'm not talking to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, I'm asking journalists to pay particular attention to the situation of the appointment of Secretary of the Reserve and its activities in the last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u5	Silent Alexei Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u6	Please tell Kisilevski
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u7	Dmitry Kisilevski, Dnipro. Colleagues, on the third Sunday of July in Ukraine, celebrate the Day of Metallurgy and Mining. And this is the reason for Parliament's rostrum to talk about the real economy and the Ukrainian industry. Metallurgy offers a very good perspective, for it allows us to see clearly the nature of the external threats and internal problems faced by Ukrainian manufacturers. Metallurgy is a fundamental sector of the Ukrainian economy. The GMC generates about 26 percent of all currency revenues, which is 12 percent of Ukrainian GDP and over 30 billion dollar bills in the 19th year. And this is the fifth part of all Ukrainian exports. A member of the past vocation has allowed herself to say that metallurgy is when garbage melts in the aging furnaces, and this whole sector is a complete nebula. She was very wrong. And although metallurgy is not yet fully modernized, the pace of this modernization is very high. In just the last five years, only three large metallurgical companies have invested $5.5 billion. Metalworking is not sold in Ukraine; it is 80 percent exportable. Perhaps there is no country in the world that does not sell Ukrainian metal. According to GMK Center, every 13th anniversary comes to the Pension Fund, a colleague comes from the GMC, and this is another strong argument for industrial development, because industry is a white business that pays full official wages. There are now three major challenges to Ukrainian metallurgy. The first is green modernisation. In view of the initiatives that we are discussing in Parliament and in view of the European Green Course, the EU will provide its producers with enormous support for eco-manufacturing and will set barriers against others. The second is access to external markets. There is no big market in a world where there are no trade barriers against Ukrainian metal. They're in the Customs Union and they're in Russia, they're in America, they're in the EU, they're in Turkey, they're in Canada and they're in Brazil. And this is a big task for Ukrainian economic diplomacy. And the third is the predicted situation in Ukraine: the presence of raw materials, including scrap metal, tariff monopolies and internal consumption of metal, which is less similar in European countries. Behind all these figures and problems are people -- Ukrainian miners and metallurgists. You can't see them from the Kyiv hills, but they're the ones holding the back of the Ukrainian economy. This is about 200,000 Ukrainian citizens working in the GMC, and this is another 400,000 Ukrainian citizens whose work depends on the GMC. They work in Dnipri, Krivoy Roz, Kamyanski and Zaporozhye, Mariupoli, Kramatorski, and other Ukrainian cities. And I want to see them at a time when the Ukrainian State will stop believing in harmful industrial advice and start pursuing smart pragmatic industrial policies. We have to stop ignoring the state of industry and move to an approach when industry and the state work together to overcome internal and external threats and work together to ensure that Ukrainian citizens have decent jobs in their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u8	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u9	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, today in our foreign partners, the festival is Bastille's Day. Our foreign partners at that time liberated their state from monarchs, dictatorships. So why are foreigners now sitting in the supervisory boards of our state enterprises and getting rich at the expense of an average Ukrainian citizen who today cannot afford to buy bread? The Naftogazu Supervisory Board received 610 million dollars, seven 100 million people, I say to the people, "on the rig." Won't these hares that don't appear in those offices and live abroad at all? A company worth 19 billion dollars in damages. What made them think they were going to get a bonus of 610 million dollars today? Next, the Supervisory Boards of the University receive a bonus of 100 million. Fragmentation is a million 860,000 dollars for the manager's salary. A million 860,000 dollars! We're looking for money overseas, Ukraine runs with an extended hand to the IMF, when billions of people are lying under the feet, the Heops pyramids with money, and the money wagons are going abroad. How to solve this problem, I'll give you a hint. Please get rid of these leechs that suck blood from the Ukrainian people, and feed the money that the Ukrainian people pay today’s supervisory boards. And let them be responsible for the damage. The cruiser -- 12 billion dollars of damage, Naftogaz -- 16 billion dollars of damage, who's going to be responsible -- supervisory boards? Next. What is done in the corruption system of the Crossroads? I already told you yesterday, this is the second series, and I'm addressing a temporary commission of inquiry, which will be an interim report. Notice, at the KSESO company, which has already received 104 million dollars for payment and has not put a car in a state enterprise, today the Krezalznica is being tried, twisted hands, continued this contract. The Wagon Repair Plant, the Lviv Locomotive Repair Plant, the Dnipropetroval Heat Plant, a plant for corruption schemes, supplies smuggled goods from Russia, as well as spare parts from worn-out locomotives. The Auditor’s State Service should take control of the matter and bring the matter to a logical conclusion. I'm going to my colleagues from the Interim Investigation Commission at Ukrzalznice, so take control of these businesses, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u10	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u11	Thank you. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! We have two years of activity and a new Supreme Council, and two cabinets, and we have a full-blown power. I'd like to point out that we've done some research on how the socio-economic situation in the country has changed. The first is tariff policy, gas price. The price of gas has risen from August 19th to today 1.7 times. When we came with you, the price of gas was 5,000 970 dollars, now it's in the base regions about 10 138. Next. The cost of housing services, if we take May of the last year and May of the 19th year, 2.1 times the cost of housing services. So this is where these positions after the cancellation of the tax on electricity, the division of the payment into gas and so on and so forth. They used to pay 5.6 billion dollars a month, now it's 11.7. These are specific figures that reflect the standard of living in the country. Next. I keep saying that our debt is rising. During this period, government-guaranteed debt increased by almost $10 billion to $91.5 billion. At the same time, investments are falling. Even for one person, we have a debt of $1,210 per person. Imagine what a number! We're all guilty. Next up, it's social policy. At the average wage level, Ukraine is the last place in Europe for all countries in Europe. The average is $470. Imagine, a minimum pension of 68 dollars, a living minimum of 84 dollars. The unemployment rate, when we came in, was 7.3 percent, now 10.5 percent. These are all numbers that show that social politics is in short supply. Population. The population decreased by 500,000, and by 100 dead, 37 were born. Let's move on. At the level of GDP per capita, and this is an economic indicator, we're also taking the last place in Europe -- 3,000 700. For example, in Moldova, $4.5,000 of GDP per capita. If we're taking a total GDP of 155 billion, the Polish neighbors are almost four times higher, almost 600 billion dollars. That's why Ukraine's economy and what Zelensky is offering, he's offering a decade of under-performing raw and uncompetitive economy, a new era of poverty, an era of poverty and galloping inflation, he's the founder of new borrowings and the economy of debt growth. Our party disagrees with this economic course. We don't understand why our colleagues in Medvedchuk, Kozak, are in trouble, but we will continue to stand for a different economic course in principle, because this course does not stand for national interests, the interests of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u12	The word is given to the Ukrainian National MP Igorovni, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u13	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, you know what payments are coming to people right now, and that can't be an accident. In two years of finding the Greens and Presidents team in power, the number of municipal payments increased by 25 billion dollars, 81 billion today. At the same time, subsidies decreased by 21 billion compared to the 19th year when the President was still Prashenko. So what happened to people, did they become almost twice as rich, that you almost doubled -- from 57 billion to 36 billion dollars, you cut subsidies? There's nothing random about it, these 21 billion themselves, and they've moved into the non-payment section. How do you react? Instead of taking the experience of our Boyko team, "Fatherland" Timoshenko, two antagonistic teams did the same thing: they held a fair price for gas and utilities, one that people could pay. How do you react? You're in minimum debt today without a court order, although we've been sworn on this stand that it will be solely by court decisions, blocking the accounts of grandparents and pensioners. I'm not saying that there's a crazy invasion of business going up in 14, 15 years of not paying income taxes, actually blocking business today. I realize that money is not enough, but not at the expense of the people, not at the expense of the middle class. And, of course, in this background, we see that at the level of vaccination, at some positive level, which has emerged in the last days, we are in the last place in Europe and the last place at the same level. This means that the authorities are not ready for today’s challenges. And in this context, we're looking at absolute rejection, some reorientation of strategic partners like Germany, such as France, which supported us in Normandy format, to other countries that are far from Normandy. And even the United States, which are now ready to help with certain political autonomy for Donbas, is also becoming enemies of today's power. Dear friends, peace is a guarantee of everything today. If not, it's a very difficult fall ahead, and I don't want it to happen again in the 14th year. I want people to think and be for people, not for money, not for oligarchs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u14	The word is given to the national deputy of Skorek Mikola Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u15	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! People's MP Skork, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." You know, this current month, July, is very important in terms of the foreign political life of our country and the situation around Ukraine. At the end of this month, our President is to visit the United States and negotiate directly with the President of the United States, Mr. Biden. This week began with a very important and very, as I think, successful in terms of foreign political life -- the meeting of our President with the Chancellor of Germany, Frau Merkel, one of the world's key politicians. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank Frau Merkel, Germany, who, along with France and Mr. Macron, are doing a great deal to eliminate the conflict on the Donbass we have and to bring back to Ukraine peace and territorial integrity. I am pleased that on a visit to Berlin, President Vladimir Zelensky maintained his commitment to the Minsk Treaties, supported the need to implement the Steinmeier formula, supported the need to implement the clusters proposed by France and Germany. And on behalf of our political power, I can say that we're willing to frame, if that's true, if that's not an empty word, we're willing to lay our shoulders on the political part of the Minsk Accords in this room. Because that is what the situation requires of us, that is what the people of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, and the world society require of us. We're really ready to come to an extraordinary meeting not on the kind of deliberate issues that were being discussed yesterday, about cannabis or other issues, but really about the realisation of the issues that concern our citizens. It's first of all peace, first of all tariff cuts, it's the cessation of completely such a man-hating reform of Mrs. Suprun's medical condition. For this very reason, I think we have to come to the hall before Independence Day talks a lot about how we're going to meet 30 years of our independence. That's a very pompous word. It seems to me that if we can take serious steps from the point of view of the implementation of the Minsk Treaties to the 30th anniversary of our independence, it will be a major gift to the State of Ukraine, to our citizens, to those people who then voted in favour of the independence of our State, who have taken such fundamental creative steps from the point of view of the formation of Ukraine as a state. Then we can really talk about, not celebrating mythical heroes, but saying that we should live free and independent Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u16	The word is given to the national deputy Sosi Roman Vasilovich. Fedienka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u17	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, citizens watching our broadcast! I appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister of Security. During the past week, he continued to work actively and met with the inhabitants of the 98th district of Kiev, including in the villages of Globoké, Glavurov, Townish. The problem of these settlements, like many other settlements throughout Ukraine, is health care. It will be a matter of extremely poor medical care in rural areas. In many villages it is virtually impossible to obtain urgent professional assistance from doctors, especially in the case of the elderly and the children. You do realize that anyone can't immediately put up a dropper or give primary medical care in an emergency, a heart problem, a hypertonic crisis, trauma or other emergency situations. It is also important to keep in mind the existence of COVID problems. Thus, the timely arrival of ambulances is often impossible because of the poor condition of the roads between the villages and the OTH where these hospitals are located. After a medical reform, funding for the primary line was put on local communities. Very often, however, local communities are forced to decide to close existing ones because of the lack of funding and skilled workers. Another reason for the closure is the existing National Health Service of Ukraine rule regarding the requirements for the establishment and maintenance of Feldshere points. Without being able to meet the requirements, the National Health Service of Ukraine has to decide whether to close the clinics. And in those villages, and in many others where I was, unfortunately, these medical facilities are closed. The inhabitants of these villages are unable, according to the Constitution, to obtain appropriate medical care. My speech is to call on the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister of Health to study carefully the problems in rural areas following medical reform, to analyse the problems of rural medicine and to make every effort to provide our citizens with affordable medical services. Health resources are always limited. Even the richest countries cannot afford to guarantee completely all medical services to their citizens on a free basis. However, they guarantee clear rules for getting help, proper quality of service. In a limited resource situation, we need to draw the right conclusions and find ways to preserve and further develop the primary health care facility, especially in rural areas. The State is obliged to provide its citizens with the proper medical care provided by the Constitution. Thanks, guys.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u18	Please, Gus, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u19	Igor Gus, 19th constituency, Volin, Future. I'd like to turn from this rostrum to the Attorney General of Venedict. The city of Novovolinsk on the edge of our state, on the border with the European Union, is the largest city in my constituency. So, recently there's a resonance event, you can look at it online, in YouTube -- over a million views. Namely: Mikola Trotsuk, prosecutor of Vladimir Wolin’s local prosecutor’s office, escaped drunk from police patrols. They tried to keep him, he tried to hide in his home, in his mother-in-law's apartment. After that, he ran away on a car and was just drunk in the smoke. When his patrol officers arrested him, he resisted. So he refused to do the tests, but he admitted to the camera that he was in an unsettling condition. I am grateful that after this incident, the prosecutor was released from the ranks of the prosecutor. But thanks to our honest courts, Mikola Trotzak was reinstated. What happened next? Then, the boys, the simple patrolmen, and this is Bogdan Nayduk and Victor Ciplakov, who were under a lot of pressure. Victor was released from police custody, and today, directly Ciplakova is being smuggled through the D.B.I. Today, the courts are suing him for daring to arrest the local prosecutor in the smoke of a drunkard. Madam Attorney General, I ask you to take this situation under personal control. This situation is resonant. I demand that we press it, do everything we can to make sure that prosecutors like Trotsek don't work in the benches of the prosecutor's office, do everything possible to get him released from the ranks of the police, from the benches of the prosecutor's office, and that the guys who have come under the law are not persecuted. Moreover, I urge the leadership of our nation’s police, colleagues, to protect your brothers who dared to make sure that the prosecutor who was caught drunk behind the wheel was punished. I'm asking you to take this under personal control. The crowd and I will personally watch, observe this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u20	The word is given to the national deputy Kamelchuk Yuri Aleksandrovitch. Passes it on to Cougar Mariana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u21	I must admit, we have some flaws. There are some flaws in Ukraine that we have so long held up the answers to questions that have social resonance. It's not just Debalts. It's Ilovysk. That's all that's going on and it's gaining social resonance, and we still don't have any answers. What has happened when decisions are made, what has been the role of high - ranking owners in recent years, what connection with the Russian Federation, and why such consequences? So in particular, we've added more to the TSC's work plan than just the publishing of film and the resonance issues that really happened. We added something else that we could figure out, what happened and how it happened, when the Minsk Accords were formed, and when the Debalts defense operation took place. But I'm being approached by my relatives, by the participants, by the operation under Ilowaysk. And we're going to add this to the next TSC meeting. Why? Because when Ilowaysk was present, the first Minsk arrangements were formed. These are related things. When the Debalts were born, others formed. How were decisions made? It's important and it's a matter of our future. Because we still have no answers. But I'm going to use the possibility to answer the questions and claims of the opposition forces. First. We started, as promised, by considering the matter of the Wagnerians. We've come to the point. And we're talking to the fifth president to visit our commission and help, to help answer questions about "vagnerians," to help the commission work on it. Peter Alexiyovich, this is your responsibility, this is our help. It's not about parties, it's about our future. And because of the objective process of the commission simply because it works by the rules, and you are responsible for what you say, you can help us show the community what has been going on. We'll be waiting for you Friday at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u22	Thank you. Please have a seat. The time for the show is up. Let's get back to the subject. The chairman of the committee, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich, is invited to the rostrum. Next line, Mom, 550. Don't insist. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the disciplinary inspector of the High Council of Justice will act according to the bill on his own, have individual and equal rights as an MP. But my ruling says that the disciplinary inspector of the High Council of Justice should act on the assignment of a member of the High Council of Justice in accordance with the acts governing the activities of the High Council of Justice. That's true, because there can't be a member of the IDA and a disciplinary inspector of the High Council of Justice with the same powers and doing the same job. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u24	Ready to vote? I'll bet you 550 on Mama's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:38:55]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next line, Mama, 151st.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, my report says that, well, no one can conduct a disciplinary review of the complaint before it is given authority. The committee is invited to authorize the examination of the disciplinary complaint transmitted to it by the results of the automated distribution of the matter. Well, I'm sorry, if a member of the PDA doesn't get one, doesn't get one, and the inspector gets one, he does the check, and the question is, who's the final beneficiary of the decision. Please bet on the vote. And I suggest we rule out this rule and leave the procedure as it should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u26	I'm betting on a vote of 551. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[10:40:21]] For-72 The decision is not taken. 552 Mama's law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you rule out butter. Well, notice, how can a person who is or is not authorized to examine or perform a test without analyzing the materials that he has received? The law gives us a direct rule: it analyzes the materials of discipline. Or is it possible that a person may not be able to make appropriate decisions without analysis? No, it's not. Throughout the law and the logic of the law it is that any public official, firstly, receives information, secondly, analyzes information, and thirdly, makes decisions. Please have the right to exclude that rule of law that essentially duplicates those logical norms of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u28	I'll bet you 152 on Mama's vote. The committee is not supported. I'd like to make up my mind. 552, I'm sorry. Please identify and vote. [[10:41:43]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 554 Mama's turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u29	Please consider, in essence, and listen to the national MPs, that we should not in law grant to those positions that are essentially duplicating or that have legal uncertainty. The law is proposed, including by the committee, to give authority: it collects information, documents, and other materials if necessary. I spoke yesterday and said that, listen, let's give the candidates the right, except for the mandatory ones, to give other materials to accept their participation in the competition. We disagreed. And for the time being, we give inspectors the opportunity, you imagine, to collect information, documents, and other materials if necessary. What are other materials? If we are already in law, it is necessary to prescribe a name, a name, after the father.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u30	Thank you. I'll bet you 554 votes. Please. 553 correct. Please identify and vote. [[10:43:18]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 554 Mama's turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u31	I'd like to point out that a member of the R & D is essentially in competition, the inspector is appointed, but he has such a great function that he can only give a member of the R & D member the right to agree on documents that will be accepted and prepared by the inspector. Why? Because we're giving him a function under the law, you see, "he's preparing projects for the adoption and decisions of the Disciplinary Pay and the High Council of Justice within the discipline of the judge." Well, the project, if there is, has a final beneficiary. If someone is preparing, he writes, for example, a decree, the name of Ukraine, the name, the name of his father, and everything else. Well, there's no signature in the project. Let's rule out this rule, and let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u32	I'll bet you 554 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:44:49]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 555 Mama's turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u33	Well, we're going back to the inspector's office. Well, I've already stressed, well, how can I make a decision, but the inspector won't be there, for example, three classes to finish, there are criteria for an inspector's position. Well, how can we, without analyzing the materials that we clearly prescribe in the law, make decisions? I'm asking you to rule out this rule because it gives the authority that it essentially has to carry out, it gets paid for it. Well, for example, we give him the law: he analyzes the materials for complaints, well, if there is a complaint, he analyzes and examines the decisions concerning judges and prosecutors, and again these draft conclusions and decisions of the High Council of Justice. Well, listen, let's finish the projects, let's live up to the decision. It's exactly like the individual opinions of judges, and we're based on them. Well, you have to be responsible for your job.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u34	I'm betting on the 555th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:46:23]] For-64 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 557, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, we are relying on the authority that we prescribe but irresponsibly. For example, the committee suggests that the inspector analyzes and generalizes the practice of disciplinary conduct and the decisions adopted to attract or refuse to involve a judge in disciplinary responsibility. I have a question, if we give him authority to practice, we also need to define the criteria. What kind of decisions is he just going to look at as part of the work of the PDA, for example, about drawing other people to the responsibility to which the responsibility is labour, administrative and all? We need to understand and write more clearly those terms of reference if we're going to do the analysis. Is he going to replace the plenary of the court that can be used in further work? How? Because if action is taken by a court of law, it is also necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u36	I'm betting on a vote of 557 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:47:55]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 558th, is partially counted. Please, Mamka People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u37	Thank you very much. Dear national MPs, in fact, can be copied by committee regulations, can be analyzed, modified somehow. But basically if you're changing, you have to do the best. Well, look, the committee allows such things that the inspector we're already comparing to the judge. Why? Because the inspector has to, his function is to do all the work in the form of projects instead of a member of the R & D, which is a small member of the R & D, and he still has to be guided by the standards of judicial ethics. I'm sorry, well, why do things like this and compare status? Well, if you have a separate cassette of inspectors, you're making them a separate unit, notice, by internal financial redevelopment, give them a charter. Well, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u38	558 Amendment of Honorary Deputy Mama Grigori Mikolaiovich. The committee considered it in part, but Gregory Mikolaiovich insists on taking it fully into account. So please identify and vote. [[10:49:49]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. The amendment stays with the committee. Next amendment 565, Knyazević. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u39	I would still like to express my position once again. The point is that, unfortunately, twice my previous vote has not passed. I would like this amendment to be put to the vote. This will indicate how much the session room really understands what the law is about. This law is designed to remove virtually members of the UPR from exercising their constitutional powers in part of attracting the disciplinary powers of judges and prosecutors, namely to deprive them of the ability to have the patronizing services of disciplinary inspectors who, on behalf of the members of the UPR, will prepare materials for them, with which they will then present a position in the disciplinary chambers regarding the involvement of a judge or prosecutor in disciplinary responsibility. By depriving them of such rights, a separate R & D vertical is actually being created within the secretariat, which will be subordinated to the deputy, think about it, the head of the secretariat. And after this law, we want to make changes to criminal and administrative legislation, which provides for the same responsibility for failing to comply with the relevant guidelines of this vertical, which, to me, is in grave conflict with the status.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u40	I'm betting on a vote of 565 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:51:33]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 567, Gregory Mikolaiovich Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u41	Thank you for the opportunity to express yourself. See, in fact, all the individual lawyers who have legal practice. Imagine the situation: there is a member of the IDP, chosen, has been through all the trials of the new Ethical Council several times. Second story: an inspector, a doctor of law, an expert in law. And the inspector did a project that was legally granted, and the member of the RDP disagrees with that project. What should we do? Let's give some kind of regulator to the Ethical Council to make a decision about who's to blame. And my paper says that one thing is that the inspector, if he works in a separate department, but he has to act on the mandate of a member of the PTA. Then it will be true and will be answered. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u42	I'm betting on a vote of 567 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:53:05]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 570, National MP Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u43	I've already given examples of if there's a project and a decision and there's no regulator in the law, you know, and the time for making a decision is going to be chaos, which is now going to exist in the R & D. The questions about IDPs are on the Internet, and they say, "Listen, is there anything you don't mind?" But no one would deny it, but give us a name and a state that will be adapted to know our legislation. We live in Ukraine according to the laws of Ukraine. And they're going to apply it, and they're going to be the regulator that's going to define norms. If we, the norms, the laws, the ethics, the virtues are not defined by law, they will make this decision for their own benefit. But my position is very clear: that a loving inspector cannot have equal powers with a member of the IDP, that he should act with certainty only according to.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u44	I'm betting on a vote (570th, right?) 570 amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:54:45]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next up is the Reverend, 573rd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u45	I want to support my colleague Gregory Mamka. And when I go back to the subject, I think it's enough to give members of the High Council of Justice the exclusive power to question the issues in which they are reporting. Because the excessive rights of disciplinary inspectors are the usurpation of power in a collegiate body. This amendment fully upholds the principles of GWP collegiality. We cannot now do so that the powers of members of the High Council of Justice are transferred to disciplinary inspectors. In such a case, the sense of such an organ is simply lost. Please place this amendment on the vote and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u46	I bet on the vote 573 amendment of the People's Deputy of the High. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:55:52]] For-65 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 574. Grigory Mikolaiovich, you haven't been heard from in a while. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing in this bill. Thank you, colleagues, for your support. In fact, I understand that we read the law and want to change it for the best. But the right to make inquiries on behalf of the High Council of Justice has: The head of the High Council of Justice or his deputy, a member of the High Council of Justice, the disciplinary inspector of the High Council of Justice has the right to question the case in which he is a reporter. See, imagine a situation, no head, someone performing his duties? A responsibilities of the head. Imagine, under the law, an executive does not have the right to sign on behalf of the Council. And the deputy does. But the responsibilities of the office are greater and he is responsible for the work. Do we need this law? So let's write that it works to be used in practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u48	I'm betting on a vote of 574 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:57:19]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Reverend, 576th. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u49	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group. My dear colleagues, I believe that only members of the R & D can access confidential and classified information. I find it inappropriate to give, even by a court decision, such a right to disciplinary inspectors. That's why I insist on that. Please put her to the vote and support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u50	I bet on the vote of 576 the amendment of the People's Deputy of the High. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:58:11]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Amendment 577, People’s Deputy Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u51	See, in fact, in work, in business, in everything else there must be competition, the right to choose, the right to apply, or to choose one way or another that is in each person. When there's one matter of discipline and there's a member of the R & D, and an inspector with the same powers, and an inspector has the authority to determine on his own what materials and where to use them. I have a question. What if the thoughts in one of the disciplined conducts of a member of the R & D and the inspector differ, what should we do in this case? How should we react? How can the project conclude and determine the criteria and category of material disposal for a complete objective examination? It's not like that at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u52	577 Amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. I'll bet you a vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:59:41]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 579. Your Majesty, will you insist? Please, Reverend, 579th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, all our work with Alexander Sukhiv is related to the activities of disciplinary inspectors. Our view is that we wrongly give them undue powers, for what is excessively, it will not be healthy. This is an example of the authority of the heads of the VCA in Luhansk. What happened? They burned Lugansk. We've included foreigners in the management of IDPs, now we're delegating a lot of functions to inspectors. Of course, all of this will spoil the quality of the organ’s work. So, colleagues, please put to the vote and support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u54	I'm betting on a vote of 579 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:00:47]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 580, Mamka People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u55	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u56	I'm sorry, the people's deputies who are standing in front of Grigory Mikolaiovich, step away because you can't see Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u57	Well, look, when are the thoughts of an IDP member and a secretary going to be different? We don't give the regulator according to the law, we don't define the criteria according to the law, we don't divide these powers. Well, let's clean up this mess. Let's still, a member of the IDP, who goes through all the procedures defined by law, has to be responsible for those relevant decisions. Because he's not preparing projects, he's making decisions. He signs them and is responsible for them. Let's still, if he answers, make the decision, not the projects, so that the secretary acts purely on his orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u58	I'm betting on a vote of 580 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:02:16]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, well, it's identical to the contents. Should I bet, Gregory Mikolaiovich, 581? Please, 581st.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u59	It's just that here I have 581 revisions, the committee says it's rejected. Can we explain why it was rejected? Because it is, well, identical and confers authority that a member of the OHR and a disciplinary inspector of the High Council cannot require the materials of the courts. What's the difference? Because it's still necessary, if it's rejected, it's rejected, and it's motivated why? Can I explain from the rostrum? Give the man a word, after all. I'll save you half a day to get an answer. Because, well, I can't figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u60	Well, you're not half a minute now, come on. Andrew Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u61	It's very simple. Your model predicts that the disciplinary inspector will carry out these duties on behalf of a member of the High Council of Justice. The committee is supported by another concept where it has to solve these issues on its own. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u62	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 581 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. You heard the committee's argument. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[11:03:46]] For-60 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 583. Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u63	I'll give you half a minute, but I'm also asking you to answer my questions. Here's what you're talking about. Listen to me. Give me the authority of a member of the O.R.P.I. so that the inspector can act on his orders. I've been giving examples. If the MP member has one position on decision-making and the Inspector has another position, what happens in this case? What decision will be taken: a draft decision or a decision by a member of the R & D? If the decision is made by a member of the PTA, what should be done with the project and with the Inspector’s opinion? Please explain to the Ukrainian people and to those judges who are essentially going to be tested in the IDP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u64	I'm betting on a vote of 583 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:05:01]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 586. Mamka's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u65	I'm pointing out that I'm asking a question. The rapporteur should essentially explain the position of the committee, head of the committee. I've given an example that if you think about different, identical powers, a member of the R & D has one thought that makes a decision, and an inspector in the form of a draft decision has another opinion. What should we do about it? More important, a decision or a draft decision? Please explain to the judges who will undergo the test. Not to me at all. So that they can get a sense of what's more important -- the decision or the project that the Law of Ukraine lives on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u66	I'm betting on a vote of 586 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:06:19]] For-61 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 588. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u67	Well, I take it you don't really want to comment on the committee's decision and explain to the judges who are going to be tested, why is that more important? In fact, one can see that the decision taken by a member of the R & D can be compared to the decision taken by the court. But the court has its own, for example, to take the Constitutional Court, and there are individual opinions of judges. And something in practice uses the individual opinion of a judge in scientific work, in teaching, in thought, well, there's some kind of thought-forming, well, no more. And in Ukraine, fortunately, we live on the basis of decisions made by laws. Can we ask why we will live in the IDP, whether it's the decision of the member of the IDP or the draft decisions of the Inspector?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u68	I'm betting on a vote of 588 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:07:50]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 589. Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u69	My 589. I propose to exclude the disciplinary inspectors of the High Council of Justice. My position, as I said before, is that a member of the R & D should be given a mandate by the inspector responsible to have an opinion. The inspector did his job, provided all the information that should be analyzed and everything else. And the inspector has to rule out from this point of view that if a member of the PDA gets the information, he should be responsible for the disclosure. You're proposing that the bill be given authority just as much as a member of the R & D and that it also prohibit the disclosure of information to a disciplinary inspector. What information did you say? It's prescribed by law. If.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u70	589 amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:09:19]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 593, Gregory Mikolaiovich Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u71	The committee offers us a definition that essentially destabilizes and, on the other hand, normalizes the work of the IDP. That is, the fewer people are affected, the more we think that the investigation will be conducted objectively in a disciplinary manner that can be qualified to make a decision by a member of the R & D. The committee proposes to distribute cases to the Supreme Council of Justice, and its organs have an automated system of distribution of cases (designation of a member of the High Council of Justice - Reporter, Disciplinary Inspector of the High Council of Justice - Reporter). Well, how is one thing going to have two reporters? What system will work, what risks, who will serve it, who will be the controller? How do we give status to this system and everything else? I want to point out what.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u72	593 Amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:10:49]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 604. I'd like to listen to Grigori Mikolaiovich Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, my report says that the committee suggests that the disciplinary inspector of the High Council of Justice is defined by the automated system of distribution of cases for the prior examination of the relevant disciplinary complaint, the Chief Inspector. The reporter. I have a question, and what's the test? If there is a previous one, there must be a final check. Well, if we qualify, what's the conclusion after the last test? Intermediate. But it's not in the law. Let's at least take into account that a member of the Disciplinary Chamber is designated for a preliminary examination of the relevant disciplinary complaint, a reporter. If you already have a previous test.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u74	I'm betting on the 604th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:12:27]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 606, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u75	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. What I don't agree with my colleagues is that they say that the story with the inspectors is illogical. It's not only logical, but it's completely unconstitutional when the mandate of the constitutional body, and the constitutional body is the IPR itself as an organ and it's made up of members of the IDP. The Secretariat is an auxiliary body that simply provides work. It is about the same if the Secretariat of the Supreme Council, instead of deputies, were to prepare parliamentary requests for its judgment. And it's completely unconstitutional, unfortunately, and it has nothing to do with jurisprudence or the Constitution or anything. The fact that most of the committee, as the chairman of the committee says, chose such a concept, I emphasize, is what the majority did. This was done by the same people who passed a bill on the President's political decisions, and it's the same quality as a bill, absolutely unconstitutional. As for disciplined conduct, the Venice Commission recommends that disciplines be increased.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u76	I'm betting on the 605 amendment of the People's Deputy Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:13:59]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 614, Mamka Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u77	It's like the inspector's making a draft conclusion, half the law goes. And this rule of law suggests that the conclusion of the Disciplinary Inspector of the High Council of Justice is that the report, together with the disciplinary complaint and the material collected during the previous examination process, is transmitted to the disciplinary chamber. Is there a question, or does a member of the UPR sign something, or does it come to a second conclusion? And the Great Chamber, which conclusion does it look at, choose which one to choose? Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. If there is a disciplinary complaint, it should be tested and the conclusion should be the one that is essentially a member of the R & D. The inspector only drafts a draft conclusion by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u78	I'm betting on a vote of 614 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:15:35]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 617, Mama, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u79	I propose that I delete the changes to article 46 of the law. What is article 46? This is the discovery of a disciplinary case. Well, look, the terms are counted. Why do we increase our terms? Let's go to the term that the Disciplinary Chamber, within 30 days of the inspector's conclusion on the case for justice, is looking at this conclusion and the materials added to it -- the discovery of a disciplinary case. Well, listen, do we have a previous conclusion as to how many inspectors are going to be held? How much is a member of the R & D? There's no such thing. We'll limit the month. Let's rule out, let's do it. By the spirit of the bill, that is the term "immediately." But they couldn't explain what "immediately" is. Let's do it anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u80	I'm betting on the 617th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:17:08]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Next amendment to 629th. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please. Aren't you tired, Gregory Mikolayovich? Why don't we take some pictures?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u81	No, no, I'm fine with endurance, I'm fine. I want you to listen and understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u82	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u83	As a lawyer. And then, if we revote or say something here from the rostrum, let's make some changes, so that you realize that you have to be responsible for your actions, not just for your thoughts. Before, thoughts were held accountable. I still want to rule out 47. Why? Because only one participant in a disciplinary case who is given powers under the law, you can imagine that a disciplinary case is being carried out by the Disciplinary Chamber with the participation of the disciplinary inspector of the High Council of Justice, a report to the judge on which the disciplinary case is open and the complainant. Well, where's that member of the R & D that makes the decision? Well, the inspector's making a draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u84	I'm betting on the 629th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:46]] For-64 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 630. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u85	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Actually, the inspector story is unconstitutional, what I'm talking about, but it has another basis. The members of the High Council of Justice are appointed by foreigners, that is, we talked about it in the first part of this law and in the first part of our amendments, and the inspectors will appoint a vertical authority. So actually, control over the judicial system is going to be so dual, and it's actually going to be a conflict between the members of the IDPs that are assigned by foreigners and the disciplinary inspectors that are assigned by the authorities. That's the whole point. So the task of this law is to divide it, it's not just justice for people, it's not fair courts, it's a desire to divide the influence of the judicial system into two -- foreigners and little bits of power. That's the whole point of this bill. People don't get anything out of it. It's not a judicial reform, it's a law about nothing, it's a law on the influence of the judicial system.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u86	I'm betting on the 630th amendment of the Vlasenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:15.]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 637. Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u87	Well, 629 missed, but. My report says that after the disciplinary proceedings have been opened, the disciplinary inspector of the High Council of Justice - the rapporteur prepares the case for disciplinary proceedings, identifies witnesses or others who are subject to the call or invitation to participate in the meeting, etc. I ask you to exclude, because if a member of the PPE is authorized, there is no direct norm against him regarding the actions of the disciplinary inspector of the High Council of Justice. Whether it's a division of what this "watcher" is, but without the right of signature, a member of the RDP will, and the inspector will make all the appropriate decisions, make the decision in the process. But if that's what you want, let's just say that the inspector has to take part of the opinion of an MP. Then at least it'll look like the law, then it will.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u88	I'm betting on the 637th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:21:49]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 638 Vlasenko. Don't insist. Do you insist, Sergey Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u89	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Once again, this law has nothing to do with judicial reform and the provision of fair and just justice for citizens. This bill has nothing to do with the Constitution of Ukraine. This bill has nothing to do with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. This bill has only to do with the desire to exercise control, by the way, this wish was made by all the Presidents of Ukraine, unfortunately, Vladimir Alexanderovich Greensky is no exception. But it is a desire to preserve or control the judicial system. So once again, this law has two parts: the MPs are appointed and chosen by foreigners, and they will choose accordingly by missing criteria, by completely blurry criteria. And the disciplinary inspectors will be appointed by the authorities. That's why it came up with the idea of assigning inspectors to the powers that should belong to members of the R & D. That's the whole story, as they say, like two copies. So don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u90	I'm betting on a vote of 638 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:23]] For-82 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 641. Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to such key things. First. This is the law that distributes complaints. The complaint in the law here is prescribed for a member of the OHR – a reporter by law (maybe someone who has not heard me speak, look) and the inspector is a reporter. But only the reporting inspector directs some material to the room. And where is the material, if the reporter is a member of the RDP, he'll report it to himself somewhere in the book? Where are they going with us, the materials? Explain, please, where are the two packets of material? Two reporters, and one key decision the inspector has on the floor. Why so? Let's get two people in a room with two different conclusions, let's let the room figure out which one is on the right and which one is on the left. Let us do what is right! I'd like you to set up an order.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u92	I'm betting on a vote of 641 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:53]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 648, Mama. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, once again I come to the conclusion that this law will not work as a physical act. Some say that some activists who are not defined by law, that we're going through something, we're going to change something. But we're not changing anything. We're giving another institution that we're putting into the internal distribution of funds that will work, create double functions and determine who should work, and who shouldn't, which complaint to satisfy, which conclusion to choose whether a draft conclusion or a mandate is given. In my opinion it's essentially necessary to determine the law and write it out, send it back to read it again, that, well, the conclusion should be one. Well, there's no one investigation and there's no two conclusions, there's no incriminating conclusion and there's no closure. Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u94	I'm betting on a vote of 648 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:23]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. 643th. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear Gregory Mikolaiovich Mamka, there is no duty to regulate the law in such a way that it works. There is a task to make a law that will allow the authorities to control part of the judicial system, and another part of the judicial system to pass on to foreigners. This is the task of this law. There's no job to create a law that gives people quick justice and allows them to work, you know. So unfortunately, logic doesn't work here. The Constitution doesn't work here. Common sense doesn't work here. The Venice Commission doesn't work here. There's an incredible desire to get control of the judicial system. That is why the law is proposed in the form proposed. Everyone fully understands that two and a half years from now, this law will be declared unconstitutional. But everyone doesn't care. Because control of the judicial system needs to be partially passed on to foreigners today, and partly taken away from the active authorities, but also today. That's the problem with these inspectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u96	I'll bet you 643 amendments. The committee counted it in part. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. So I'm making an offer from the author. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:57]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains with the committee. Next amendment 658, Mama Grigori Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u97	648.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u98	648, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u99	Look, really, I support a colleague who said this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u100	No, no, I'm sorry, we just voted in 648. We're back to 653, so let's do it again to remember well. Yeah. 658th, Gregory Mikolaiovich. A system-wide adjustment is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u101	658 correct is rejected. But what I want to say is that my report says that it is necessary for a member of the GWP who signs the papers, conclusions, in the form of conclusions and mandates, to participate in the hearing of this complaint. It is not possible to grant and prohibit a member of the PPE from participating and to allow the inspector to take part in the law. The inspector is making up a draft decision. You understand how the court would look at the name of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u102	I'm betting on a vote of 658 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:29:40]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 701, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. You have those. 676th, Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're even missing those adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u104	And it's counted, which is even counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u105	684. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u106	684. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u107	Thank you. And once again, I'm saying that it's actually the sole purpose of this law. The purpose of this law is to ensure control of the judicial branch of power. And it's not the control of the people of Ukraine, it's the control of the foreigners and the control of the active authorities. And that's why this law is completely designed in the form that it's designed contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the conclusions of the Venice Commission, contrary to all the recommendations. But the goal is completely different. The aim is to manually control the judicial system. Just like it's been done over the last 10 years. Nothing will change. People don't get speedy justice. People will not receive honest, just judgments. And this law will be declared unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u108	Thank you. I'll bet you 684. It's partially accounted for. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. So please identify and vote. [[11:31:38]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The committee is still editing. The next amendment, 700, is also partially counted. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u109	Thank you, Your Honor. In order to exercise manual control of the judicial system, there is a definition of professional ethics and integrity, which can be applied either artificially or not to any candidate. So the same candidate, according to these criteria, can be defined both as virtuous and unkind. This allows the so-called Ethical Council, which consists mainly of representatives of foreign organizations, to determine for its own discretion that this candidate is bad, this candidate is good; this candidate is very good, and this candidate is not very good. And it's actually a manual control mechanism. No system works if it has manual controls. And that never leads to anything good. Yes, for another six months it will be possible to say that, look, the Ethical Council worked and so on. But then people will see that nothing has changed, they've broken the Constitution, and it's the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u110	I'm betting on a vote of 700 amendments to the People's Deputies of Vlasenka. The committee counted it in part. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. So please identify and vote. [[11:33:19]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 701. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u111	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Your Honourable Chairman, Your Honor, this is my final amendment to this bill. I want to summarize my position. First of all, we believe that such a law cannot be voted on. And a good observation by the Supreme Council's Legal Authority on the return to second reading. This is indeed a bill by which foreign partners, through the Ethical Council, appoint the Higher Council of Justice, which will be under the control of international partners. On the other hand, the powers of disciplinary inspectors are introduced as a separate structure that will not be subordinated to judges, rather than to judges, but to members of the High Council of Justice, but rather to exercise disciplinary conduct over judges and report to the head of the secretariat. In this way, the authorities will be able to influence all courts of territorial and higher jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u112	I'm betting on a vote of 701 the amendment of the people's representative of Zimbaluk. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:34:51]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 707th. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, my report tells us that if we are to form the Council of Ethics, we are to choose members of the PDA, and the entire institution of the "watchers" from the authorities we are to lead. Well, what we are is the Ethical Council, you can imagine, we've been giving authority for six months to all of us to check, make the right decisions. Imagine, in six months. They're expelling everyone legally, illegally. Thus, they will act on a position based on a position that they will assert themselves. I'm sorry, is this an opera concert called folk music and my words, or is it convenient for anyone? Did they simply decide, with the participation of other partners, to examine those judges who were performing their duties? My point is, we need to rule it out of the Transitional Regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u114	I'm betting on a vote of 707 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:20]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 713. Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u115	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Instead of offering Parliament and society a normal professional judicial reform programme for two years, we were initially offered a completely unconstitutional bill of 1008, which was taking control of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Now we are offered the same, but to seize the High Council of Justice, to create a conflict between those appointed by foreigners and those appointed by power. Or perhaps it is a way to deceive foreigners by telling them one thing and by passing another in the bill. But this is not a real systemic reform of the judicial system. The public will feel it right away. The courts won't start working any better. The selection of judges will not be better. Courts will not make fair and fair decisions at once. It's not gonna happen. And the law will be recognized.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u116	I bet on the vote 713 amendment of the People's Deputy Vlasenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:37:48]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 718, Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u117	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I would like to point out once again that the law has nothing to do with judicial reform, that the law has nothing to do with the Ukrainian Constitution, which was recently respected by all and 25 years of celebration and said that we should abide by the Constitution. This has nothing to do with most of the conclusions of the Venice Commission. And one conclusion was drawn from the Venice Commission, and everyone else just didn't see, let's say, conditionally, or ignored them. They've put in place a double-influence mechanism on the court system, tried to fool your foreign partners and our foreign creditors. And it really won't and can't lead to any improvement in the functioning of the judicial system. Yeah, you could say for six months that, look, the Ethical Council is still working, look, just take it away, we're not working yet. But in the future, it will not bring any relief to Ukrainian citizens who await justice and honesty.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u118	I'm betting on a vote of 718 amendments to the People's Deputies of Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:39:19]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 726. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u119	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Instead of creating mechanisms for real harmonization of judicial practice, instead of changing the approach to the selection of judges, it will instead reform legal higher education rather than clear procedural codes and throw out completely misunderstood procedures such as the reading of an indictment in court, which is totally useless, but takes a lot of time. Instead of directing funds and creating normal conditions for the execution of justice, instead of providing citizens with real access to the courts, instead of restoring the CCS, we are offered any "accuracy" that has nothing to do with the real reform of the judicial system and bringing about a new quality in the functioning of the judicial system. And this law will be declared unconstitutional sooner or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u120	I'll bet you 726 votes, Vlasenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:40:54]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Puziczuk, 730 right. Don't insist. Radina, 733.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u121	Colleagues, please support the 733 amendment. It is intended not to block the work of the High Council of Justice in the event that the decision of the Ethics Commission of its members is withdrawn. Appropriately it is necessary to establish a time frame during which the task force is to gather and consider the application, if it so wishes, the destination authority may reject it. But the situation where the members of the PDA are permanently removed and there is no way of unlocking the organ is abnormal. And the correction is correcting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u122	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the amendment committee was considered and rejected. You have just heard the position of the author of the amendment, so the room can be defined to support or not to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u124	I get it. Makes sense, doesn't it? I got it. I'm betting on the vote number 733. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:42:43]] For 280 Decision taken. Edit included. Next item. Show the factions, please. All right, dear colleagues, we're going to vote for the law as a whole. Uh, confirmation, sorry, yeah, sorry. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, confirmation papers. Amendment 112.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u125	Thank you, Mr. Head. But it won't be that easy for you. In fact, at 112 amendments, the author removes from the criteria to be met by a member of the High Council of Justice, so completely irrelevant to the author of the criteria as political neutrality. So it turns out that an IDP member can be politically involved if we clear the criteria of political neutrality. It is clear that at first we have aliens appointed, but it turns out that they may also appoint a politically engaged person, rather than assigning a politically neutral, professional, and understanding person. Instead, we are offered the criteria of professional ethics and integrity, but I have already quoted you as saying what professional ethics and virtue are in the understanding of the authors of this law. In particular, it is an irreprehensible conduct in personal life. So if you've ever been fined for violating traffic rules, you're no longer flawless, you've already had a fine, and then you can't be a member of the High Council of Justice, which is absurd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u126	I'll bet you 112 votes. It's counted by the committee. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:44:47]] For 247 Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. 192 law, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u127	You see, well, at first they were afraid that political neutrality was disappearing, but then nature took its toll. Going back to 192 revisions. This amendment tells us that the Ethics Council itself, instead of those constitutional bodies that elect members of the High Council of Justice by the Constitution, the Ethics Council determines the list of candidates, it determines everything. I say again, I'm going to give the same example as I was saying: I'm going to propose to the head of the committee of two brides for marriage, and let him choose someone. And he wants a third or a fourth. Do you understand? This is what we are asked to do: We are asked that someone choose instead of the constitutional bodies of the members of the High Council of Justice. Unfortunately, it is. Or fortunately, it's unconstitutional. I emphasize once again, if this amendment is not rejected, the law will be declared unconstitutional, and you are responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u128	I'll bet you 192 votes. The committee was accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:46:17]] For 262 Decision taken. 240 right, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's yellow in white, it's bad. Yellow in green is normal, colleagues. So going back to the 240. In fact, this law says that the Council of Ethics is formed to promote the bodies that are elected to the Supreme Council of Justice. However, it is further noted that the candidate’s qualifications have been established. So are recommendations or established facts? You know, in one norm, two contradictions: first you say that the Ethical Council helps, and then you write "and it sets." Because if it helps, it cannot set up, it can only advise, only help. And in fact, Fatherland doesn't mind. You want an Ethics Council that helps, let it be, let it advise those bodies that elect members of the High Council of Justice. But he advises and does not determine for them. The authority of constitutional bodies cannot be delegated to other organs, to any advisory or unknown body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u130	I'll bet you 240 votes. The committee is supported. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:47:49]] For 265 Decision taken. Twenty-four-three.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u131	The 243 amendment is applicable. It was proposed by the authors and it refers to the criteria for persons to be members of the Ethics Council. Well, actually, absolutely declarant law, so you're actually writing that a person should have an impeccable reputation and have to be known in a legal environment, and then any Kicks will be elected to the Constitutional Court, people who are totally out of work. I'll tell you that in the first gold formation of the Constitutional Court, your candidate, Quichun, would not let the floor wash, and not that being a judge of the Constitutional Court, you understand. So, unfortunately, this is a completely declarative story that you wrote down, but you've spent 15 years there. On the one hand, you're talking about what some young people have to do there, and on the other hand, you're going to figure out what 15 years of judicial experience are and how many years will these people be who are going to be elected to the Ethical Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u132	I'll bet you 243 votes. It's counted by the committee. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:49:16]] For 259. Decision taken. The edit remains counted. 280 lashes, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u133	Well, 280 revisions refer to the order in which the Ethics Council is formed. Much has been said about this today, and much has been said about it yesterday. In fact, once again, the law is built in such a way that the Ethical Council is completely under the control of international experts, which does not respond, including the recommendations of the Venice Commission, to the Ukrainian Constitution, it doesn't match anything. But this is done in order for representatives of foreign organizations to essentially influence the Ukrainian judicial system through this mechanism. But on the other hand, we have inspectors there, inspectors who balance this story for the active authorities. So once again, regulation 280 refers to the composition of the Ethical Council and the order of the replacement to the Ethical Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u134	I'll bet you 280 votes. It's on confirmation. The committee is accounted for. Please support and vote. [[11:50:39]] For 289 Decision taken. 385 axles. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u135	385 revisions relate to the order of the contest and how the results of the competition are drawn up. The competition is being held in two stages, and it's actually going to happen in a completely manual mode. I would like to emphasize once again that few of the criteria of integrity and professional ethics are written in such a way that each person can or will not fall under these criteria, so believe that actually competitive selection and so objectively based on tests will be given to the candidate 100 points, and the interview will be given 800 points. And then the Ethical Council, in manual mode, will bring together candidates for the PDP of those people who will be considered to be in need of a purely subjective approach. There will be no objective approach; it will not improve the work of the High Council of Justice; it will not improve the functioning of the judicial system as such, and this is not a judicial reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u136	I'll bet you 385 votes. The committee is supported. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:52:09]] For 288 Decision taken. 389 law, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have criteria for candidates again. The criteria for candidates are set out in such a way that they are completely subjective. Suppose a candidate is considered to meet the criteria of professional competence if he has the necessary knowledge, who determines which knowledge is necessary. To carry out his mandate as a member of the High Council of Justice, he demonstrated his analytical abilities. What is it? Because one thinks he's demonstrated, and the other thinks he's demonstrated his analytic abilities by passing a bill on political and legal decisions and demonstrating his analytical abilities. Unfortunately, everything is built on completely subjective criteria that allow manual selection without systemivity and then influence the formation of the Supreme Council of Justice by the Ethical Council, which is made up of most of the representatives of foreign organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u138	I'll bet you 389 votes. The committee is supported and accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:53:41]] For 293 Decision taken. 390 law, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The queues are completely blurred criteria for assessing candidates who have nothing to do with reality. I emphasize again, I understand why this is being done. This is done to manually select to the High Council of Justice to make this selection completely controlled, completely regulated. I understand what the law says. And they're going to tell you something else on the air, because people don't understand these nuances, people don't see that difference. But people who know how it works understand everything and see everything. And it's going to be very easy to do. There's going to be a predetermined list of required candidates, they're all going to fall under all the criteria that are completely blurry, they're going to be defined as candidates. And then the constitutional body will be offered from two brides to choose the one they're offered, that's all. But this does not have anything to do with judicial reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u140	I'll bet you 390 votes. It's counted by the committee. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[11:55:16]] For 287 Decision taken. 422 law. The committee is supported. Counted. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u141	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Actually, this is about the next one. The Ethics Council was authorized to collect confidential information with personal information received from government authorities, local authorities. And they can also get this information from other sources, and they can get whatever information they need to carry out their credentials. Including, in fact, it could be a bank secret, it could be any information. So the Ethics Council has become better armed than any law enforcement agency, because they can get information, including confidential information, with personal data. In fact, all personal data restrictions that have been imposed by other laws are being undermined. Once again, the Ethics Council is not a law enforcement body, it's an advisory body when it's elected. But we have to control it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u142	I'll bet you 422 votes. The committee is accounted for. Please support and vote. It's on confirmation. [[11:56:47]] For 265 Decision taken. 459 correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What does the 459 revision say? She said that, at the request of the Ethics Council, additional experts and experts from international and foreign organizations could be involved to support its activities and the work of its members. So even Ukrainian organizations have ruled it out. It turns out that the Ethical Council, which is made up of most foreigners, can invite other foreigners to choose the Supreme Council of Justice. Well, it's schizophrenic, I'm sorry. I understand that we want to find our international partners. But do not lick them to death, fellow workers, but do not lick them to death. Even the Venice Commission said it was too much, it was too much. This already threatens the national sovereignty of Ukraine and article 1 of the Ukrainian Constitution. The Venice Commission, which in principle suggested that foreign experts be part of the Ethical Council, but that's too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u144	I'm betting on a vote of 459 amendments. The committee counted it. So please support and vote. [[11:58:15.]] For 274
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u145	Decision taken. The edit remains counted. 661 axle. The committee was counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u146	Can I get started?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u147	It's partially accounted for. So what do you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u148	Thank you. Once again, I insist that we place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u149	For confirmation. The committee counted it in part. Vlasenko, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u150	Yes, thank you, Mr. Head. This regulation, 661, defines the order of the formation of this first composition of the Council of Ethics, where the entire history is written, is related to the influence of representatives of international organizations. It's a complete description of how this is supposed to be. This right gives complete control to foreigners by order of selection to the Supreme Council of Justice, which is not entirely in conformity with the Ukrainian Constitution. Once again, this has nothing to do with judicial reform, it has to do with giving up national interests. You've created a TSC there, so consider this question at TSC, as you say national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u151	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 661 confirmation papers in the same edition as the committee, which is partially counted, for confirmation by the committee. Please support and vote. [[12:00:01]] For 275 Decision taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. There's a break until 12:30. Ask not to be late. There are several rights left and we are going to vote in favour of the law as a whole. The amendments also apply to confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Take your seats. Edit 666, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, it's happened that I've always supported the authors of the 666, well, for different reasons, on different issues, not specifically the author of the amendment. But it turns out that I'm standing up to people who are practicing the 666. Thus, Amendment 666 essentially says that the Ethics Council is not a temporary body that was created once, and this, contrary to the Constitution, is a permanent body that essentially replaces the work of those bodies that are bound by the Constitution and defined by those who elect members of the High Council of Justice. I tried to amend this article, where it was clear that the Ethical Council was essentially a one-time institution that was used once over a period of time. Instead, the committee chose a different concept, which appeared in the right direction of 666.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u154	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, the 666 law that the First Composition of the Council of Ethics, with the participation of international experts, is only to work for 3 years, unlike the law of the same law, which says that the term of office of the Council of Experts is 6 years. Given that the recommendation of the Venice Commission coincides with the basic model of the law, i.e. every composition of the Ethics Council should work for six years, I think it's necessary not to support this amendment. That's why I'm asking you to vote yellow.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u156	A strange combination of opposition and power. It's probably 666 of them all united, isn't it? I'm betting on the vote number 666. You heard the committee logic. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:36:18]] For -6 A total of 666 votes were cast. The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Thank you. Next number 705.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u157	This is the magic of the number 666 and the author of this amendment. But I hope that this amendment and this vote will play the same role as the 409 amendment to Law 3711-d. That's the first one. Now the second one. The 705 amendment again regulates the work of the Ethical Council and the period during which they, representatives and members of the Ethical Council, should elect appropriate members of the High Council of Justice. So I think, once again, the conceptual Ethical Council is unconstitutional, the conceptual participation of foreigners in this is unconstitutional, conceptually all of this is wrong and all of this is going to be cancelled. But if you don't support this amendment now, you're going to do this little bit better. In principle, we can also do as amended by Amendment 666. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u158	Regulation 705. The committee is accounted for. It's on confirmation. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. 705 correct. [[12:37:50]] For 248 Decision taken. 732 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u159	Thank you, Mr. Head. This is an interesting piece of legislation that says that all cases related to the prosecution of decisions, actions and omissions of bodies that elect, appoint, evaluate members of the High Council of Justice should be considered in the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Well, first of all. It is completely unclear whether this is the Ethical Council, which part of the work it does. That's the first one. And the others. We came up with a little bit of what the classic used to say, slightly fatter written articles. Because all of our cases are referred to the Supreme Court. So let's eliminate all the courts in Ukraine, leave one Supreme Court, and let this Supreme Court deal with all the questions. All of them, any of them. Because now we're being asked to have these issues considered in the Supreme Court, then we're being asked to have the Antimonopoly Committee consider everything there. Let's eliminate everything, leave one Supreme Court, close the country to the castle, and we'll continue to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u160	I'll bet you 732 votes. It's counted by the committee. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[12:39:11]] For 256 Decision taken. The edit remains counted. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law (registration number 5068). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:39:52]] For 259. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, there's been an announcement to take a break with the replacement for the performance. Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u161	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I was able to take, write a replacement application for the performance, and I was impressed by the appeals from the educated who are addressing both our "Fatherland" faction and the "For the Future" MP group, because Irina Konstankevitch and I just spoke in detail about the state of affairs that are currently taking place in the education sector. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council's apparatus is beginning to take full steps to accept your application for vacations, other allowances. Also in government, respected colleagues are planning their vacations with material assistance, with the payment of vacations. But really, what happens in education, dear colleagues? And in education because of the huge deficit in education subsidies, teachers have no opportunity to go on vacation. Only two months, July and August, are spent for our students, where they can use it for their vacations. And in principle, August is the month for them to bring their education facilities to the right state, by September 1st, when our Ukrainian children go to school and also invest their money. I don't understand why you, dear colleagues, are now silent in view of our form of government in our country, especially the majority. I know exactly what kind of appeal comes to you, asking you to intervene immediately. The numbered days remain in Parliament's plenary work, and we will not have the slightest opportunity with you in the session hall to vote on the budget changes and add to this educational subsidy the amount of money that will enable us to pay our teachers' salaries and allow them to go on vacation in full and pay the vacations accordingly. What is happening in local governments? Those urban communities to which villages have joined have a huge amount of deficit in such a subsidy to pay to earning schoolchildren. What does the government do? And the government makes this very clear and simple: it forces the heads of united circuit communities to optimize schools, schools, and schools. Therefore, the requirement of the "Fatherland" faction to immediately call the Prime Minister of Ukraine into the session hall. Let him report immediately on the status of the work that takes place with the payout and the payment of the vacation money to the teachers. Right to the session room, Mr. Schmigal!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u162	There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, July turns into a month of fighting Ukrainians for their language. That was a year ago, when we were defending education in Ukrainian, that was nine years ago when, in response to the Rusic Law of Kiwalova-Keleschenka, a language field began. Then we seemed to lose, the "regions" drowned the Rules, extended the anti-Ukrainian law. "Smalled up like kittens" – boasted of most of her leaders, now dead. But the kittens grew up and learned to protect Ukraine. They grew up on the field, grew up at war with Russia. The law is declared unconstitutional. Kolezenko fled to Russia, and as a citizen, he served as an invader. This is a lesson in history for all who think that they can play with the language, the right of the Ukrainians, the right that Ukrainians have chosen for centuries throughout their history. So today I am calling on the initiators of the revision of language legislation, who have tabled illegal amendments to the bill on the restoration of cultural objects. You received unprecedented support in the election two years ago. Do not exchange it to try to ruse Ukraine. These attempts will be futile, and you will remain in history losers who helped Putin prove that we are the same people. Thank you to the representatives of Andrey Kloczka, Alexander Korneyenka, for reporting the withdrawal of their rights to be considered on the Committee on Budgets today. I encourage you to do this to other colleagues in the party. Please note the strong violation of article 116 of the Rules. I call on all colleagues in parliament not to support attempts to bring Ukraine back to the killer's arms. We'll win because we're the truth!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, this Monday we learned that the Restoration Act introduced language rights. I have a big request for all initiators, including those who have recanted their changes, which can now cancel, do so. Do not violate article 116 of the Rules, and do not turn the last plenary days of our Parliament into a fight for language again. I have a great request to the members of the budget committee, which consists of all factions and groups, please do not support today's proceedings. And I have a big request to all the factions, let's make it clear right away that no law that applies to language or in the Restoration Act or in other laws by July 16 will even be dealt with. We have done a lot during this session and have just completed judicial reform. Let's not turn the last days into half or more of the Ukrainian Parliament standing here again, blocking the rostrum and protecting the language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u165	So let's get to the point. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending article 188-32 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of responsibility for non-compliance with the legal requirements of the disciplinary inspector of the Supreme Council of Justice (registration No. 5069). Someone's gonna report on the papers? Who? Osadchuk. Except for Osadchuk. Knazevitch. Don't insist. Is he insisting? One order, Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u166	Mr. Head, I insist, because this is a testimony to all of our previous discussions, a testimony to the motive of the arguments that we made during the discussion of the so-called creation of a new institution, independent of the members of the OHR, disciplinary inspectors. Now, trying to make appropriate changes to the Code of Administrative Offences and to compare the level of responsibility for failing to comply with the instructions of these disciplinary inspectors, who will be so-called independent in the Secretariat of the Russian Federation, is equal to the responsibility for failing to comply with the instructions of the members of the Russian Federation, which, among other things, has been given by the Constitution of Ukraine, means that we are absolutely right. It is a matter of substituting concepts, and instead of members of the UPR, all the parts of discipline will now be decided by other persons who are unlawfully given such powers by the Constitution. And failure to comply with their instructions will be no less a responsibility than failure to comply with the instructions of a member of the GWP. Imagine that we now have the same powers in the Supreme Council apparatus.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u167	I bet on vote 1 of the amendment of the People's Deputy Knazević. The committee's proposing a rejection. [[12:48:31]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Osadchuk. Yeah? Amendment number 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u168	No, no, I'm sorry, I just want the 19th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u169	You're only 19, okay, I get it. 4th, Knazevitch. Makarov? Well, I asked. Please, Makarov, 3rd time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we have just voted bill 5068 with amendment 733 of the Radino Anastasia. I would like to quote: "The competition for the appointment of disciplinary inspectors of the High Council of Justice shall be announced after the evaluation of the conformity of the members of the High Council of Justice has been completed, except for the head of the Supreme Court, the criteria of professional ethics and integrity, but not later than one year from the date of validity of this law." This law will become effective, I think, not before autumn, but a year later. What's your hurry now? What responsibility do you now want to introduce for failing to follow instructions from disciplinary inspectors? It's too early now, this bill has to be rejected. My amendment should now be voted on, and it is precisely because this responsibility is not being introduced, and it is still early in the day. Please support my revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u171	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u172	The committee proposes to reject the amendment. We believe that the bill directly has to take effect simultaneously with the basic bill. It is also envisaged that it will take effect at the same time as Bill 5068.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u173	Thank you. Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 3 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:50:33]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 4th. Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u174	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Well, it's a fundamental mistake when we don't have a basic law yet, and at the same time we're adopting laws to enforce that law. It's not the first time we've seen this happen, and it's not the first time we're going to have problems. Then we have to wait or wait, for example, for the veto to be overcome or not overcome, or this law will be rejected in general. And then what do we do with this law? Imagine, for some reason, that basic law did not come into force. This means that the disciplinary inspectors, who are now in the R & D but in the protective services of the members of the R & D, will be likened to the instructions of their direct bosses, which is absurd in terms of even formal logic. So I support the position of the previous speaker, Oleg Makarov, we have nowhere to go. In general, let us put an end to the practice that has already demonstrated its inefficiency in life. In view of these circumstances, I ask that my amendment be supported now, and this law is now not to be passed and postponed until then.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u175	I'll bet you a vote on the 4th amendment. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:00]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Puzichuk, please 5 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u176	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear fellow citizens, what do you see today? That there is no justice in Ukraine, the judicial system does not work. A clear example is the appeal of Ukrainian citizens to support the Fatherland faction regarding the holding of the All-Ukrainian referendum. In an illegal way, the Central Election Commission rejected 11,000 citizens' appeal to hold an all - Ukrainian referendum. Citizens have appealed to the court and, unfortunately, cannot defend their constitutional right to hold a referendum to defend Ukrainian land. And instead of creating real working mechanisms and relaunching a judicial branch of power, you're going to invent ephemeral inspectors today. Explain who these people are, and what are their functions? Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u177	I'll bet on the vote 5 of the Puzichuk amendment. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:53:25]] For 104
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u178	The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka 1 minute, please let me speak instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, the inspectors have already given the past bill such powers and without responsibility, but this is only the beginning. At this point, we're looking at what's going on at the Supreme Council, where military pensioners are asking the President and the national deputies that they don't need any extras and indices. They're asking us to make their pensions equal to those bills that we've had our first reading. I want to look essentially, let's look at those bills so that there's no such tax, compensation from the Kabmin, but there's actually real payouts, that's given by the state what they made, then it'll be true. And my revision says that let's assign powers when they do, these inspectors. My 3 amendments imply that in a year, there will be the introduction of one or the other powers, and then it will only give authority, but again at the head of an IDP member.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u180	Thank you. Next line, Makarov, 7th. Don't you insist? Is anyone else going to insist? Knyazevich, I see. Knazevitch, 9th edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u181	This is my extreme correction, I have an insistence only on this side. Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you that this chapter of KUPAP, it refers in general to the failure to comply with the relevant instructions of the constitutional bodies. There are a number of organs, including the national deputies of Ukraine. And this is the first time we've set a precedent when an unconstitutional body is added to the list of constitutional bodies for failing to comply with the instructions of which administrative responsibility comes into play. It's a very bad precedent, it might end badly, believe me. Because, first of all, it conflicts not only with the Constitution, but also with the previous law, but even with the view of KUPAP, because it will. It's in one article where both MPs and administrative disciplinarian inspectors are written. Today we had a discussion about what to do in that case, what to do if different questions and different corresponding responsibilities of different subjects, but in one article. How the IDP itself will act, then, what will be the effect on the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u182	I'm betting on the 9th Amendment of Knazevitch. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:27]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line, Puzichuk, 10th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u183	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear citizens, note that today the work of the Constitutional Court is largely blocked as a result of the actions of the majority. And it's blocked after Fatherland and other deputies have approached the Constitutional Court for recognition of an unconstitutional law on the sale of Ukrainian land. And then there was an attack on the court. In 2019 there was also an attack on the Supreme Court and another attempt to subdue the Supreme Court, which reduced the number of judges from 200 to 100. And the Constitutional Court has declared this law, the so-called pseudoreform, anti-constitutional. There is now another attempt to subdue Ukrainian courts, Ukrainian judges by a majority. Please don't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u184	I'll bet you 10 Puzichuk's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:57:53]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. Macarov doesn't insist. Cymbaluk, 16th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u185	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, practically this bill compares disciplinary inspectors to members of the High Council of Justice. Because the responsibility for failing to execute their decisions is the same. What did the authorities do? It practically cheats money in foreign lands and promises to form the Higher Council of Justice so and, on the other hand, retains influence through disciplinary inspectors on every judge in Ukraine. I mean, keep an eye on your hands. And the money was taken, and I'm sorry. It's important not to go out on your own. And the law applies that this law takes effect at the same time as the previous law that voted the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u186	I'm betting on the 16th vote of the national MP of Zimbaluk. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:18]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Frolow. Don't insist. And the last amendment, the ultimate amendment to this bill, Osadchuk. And please prepare for the vote after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I do not insist on voting. I'm going to the secretariat and the Head of the Supreme Council to point out that in the 5069 Transitional Positions that we're looking at right now, there's a reference to 5068, which we've already approved definitively, but in this bill, the old title of the law. That's why I'm asking technical legal remedies to correct the contradictions in application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u188	The committee's position is brief. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u189	Yes, indeed, for consideration of the bill in the second reading, the title of the basic bill 5068 has been changed, so it can also be corrected during the technical legal process before Bill 5069. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u190	Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 188-32 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of responsibility for non-compliance with the legal requirements of the Disciplinary Inspector of the High Council of Justice (registration No. 5069). Please support and vote. [[13:01:04]] For 265 Decision taken. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Chess.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u191	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, worse and worse news is coming from Luhansk. And this applies to all of Ukraine, because it is Lugansk that there is a war going on. And not only in the east, but in the heads of officials in general. Today I am raising questions from all Ukrainian farmers in Ukratrans Security. Today, there were drunkards — officials and national deputies who were caught by police officers, or prosecutors who were fleeing from the police. So in Luhansk, two protocols have already written to the head of Ukratrans Security, but the visa is there now. Drought repeatedly raised this question on the committee. So far, no one has paid attention. When will there still be order and law in this country? I ask every legislator. When will justice be done? When will people experience, not a knitting, but a normal letter, a letter of law? Why does the head of Ukratrans today collect a taxi from every car, from every farmer who owns a truck, from every carrier by a thousand, by 2,000 dollars?Oh, my God! And he's charging his pockets with millions of dollars of money. Drains from the country, who's going to answer again? Today's Big Construction. Pits, like graves, with kamaz coming in and hiding in Luhansk. Why was the road to Luhansk made by the governor of Light made in the Kupansk region, and in the Lugansk region, ten governors changed, and still tanks? Who Will Answer? And the second question was raised in the Ministry of Infrastructure, raised by Schmidt, raised in the Ministry of Reintegration. Thank them so much for agreeing to build a railway line for the war - torn Luhansk region with a peaceful Ukraine. Thirty-seven miles [37 km] of road cannot be made! Enemies make thousands of miles of roads a year. We don't have 30 miles of railways. There's two billion dollars of money being allocated. The Lugansk region, Luganské VCA, cannot make a project on a railway line from Bilocurakin to Svatov to avoid being hit by the trucks of the road and not killing the big building that the President had destroyed. I'm calling on the President, all the relevant committees, the Transport Committee, to take a quick look at this issue and put a dot in the construction of the railway line in the Lugansk region. And a dot with drunkards today who run Ukratrans. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u192	Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is Bill 2063. He considers the procedure for second reading. No one insists on the papers. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the provision of detained, suspected, accused, convicted of receiving legal aid, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (worked) (registration number 2063). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:05:18]] For 338 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the development of the Old Age Institute, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (registration number 4535). Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, Representative of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u193	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, on April 15, 2021, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Development of the Institute of Ageing (registration number 4535). The President of Ukraine considers the prescribed law to be extremely important and supports the need to strengthen the institutional capacity of the institution of old age and the legal regulation of the formation of old-age districts. At the same time, the Head of State did not sign it because, among other things, the law provides for amendments to the Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which not only fall within the subject of legal regulation approved by Parliament of the law, but also excludes the provision that exposes the content of the requirements of political neutrality to candidates for the position of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. According to the President, this creates the basis for the arbitrary application of the provisions on the criterion of political neutrality, for the establishment of a candidate to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and then for this to lead to legal uncertainty. This approach, according to the President, is not in line with the Basic Law of Ukraine, which states that political neutrality is part of the independence of judges and is an integral element of the rule of law. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has formulated a permanent legal position on the implementation and operation of the rule of law and its constituents in Ukraine. In particular, the rule of law is the rule of law in society. The rule of law requires the State to put it into law enforcement and enforcement, particularly in laws that, by their content, need to be enshrined primarily in the ideas of social justice, freedom, equality, and so forth. The constitutional principles of equality and justice give rise to the requirement of determination and clarity and the certainty of the rule of law, since others cannot ensure its equal application, does not rule out unlimited treatment in law enforcement practices, and inevitably lead to controversies. The principle of legal certainty requires the legislator to be clear, clear, and unambiguous, in particular their predictability, their predictability, and their predictability to ensure a stable human legal position. In its decision of 26 April 2018 No 4-pp, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine also stressed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in carrying out the legislative regulation of social relations, is obliged to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, the exceptions to the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, which make a meaningful disclosure of the constituents of the criterion of political neutrality, do not correspond to the first part of article 8 of the Constitution of Ukraine, nor does it support the constitutional principle of the independence of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes to exclude section I, paragraph 6, from the text of the law. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u194	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Sign up for a question to the reporter, three minutes' notice. Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u195	Pass it on to Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u196	Dear Mr. Stefanchuk, I have, you know, no questions left on the substance of the old age bill, because, unfortunately, the President has not responded to this disgraceful phenomenon that people have the right to choose instead. And you know, I don't have any more questions about the influence of the President's Office when this disgraceful rule about the judges of the Constitutional Court appeared in the body of the bill after the second-reading vote. But I still have some questions for you. Mr. Stefanchuk, please tell me if this means the President's veto that every time the Supreme Council violates the Rules in disgrace, and contrary to 116 articles of the bill, which does not refer to a completely different subject of knowledge, there will be a similar amendment, does it mean that the President will promise all such bills? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u197	Thank you. In answer to your question, I would like to refer to the Constitution of Ukraine, under which the President of Ukraine is a guarantor of human rights and freedoms and a citizen in the state. And when the President of Ukraine sees a certain one, let's say the flaw that the legislator has made, his sacred right, which was granted to him by the Constitution of Ukraine, to point to this mistake and to correct it. The President took advantage of that right. Whether he will exercise this right whenever Parliament makes a mistake in legislation, I do not know it, because it is solely the competence of the sole subject of the legislative initiative in this matter, which is the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u198	Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u199	Password, please. Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u200	Dear Mr. Ruslane, using another opportunity to ask questions. Just now, according to your words, you said that the President has the opportunity to use the rules of the Constitution and respond to violations of the laws. But, Mr. Stefanchuk, please tell me whether it is the right or the duty of the President of Ukraine to respond to explicit violations of the law. That's the first question. And please tell me if it means, in your words, that the Office of the President, particularly the President of Ukraine, when he wants it or when he has free time, he will respond to an open violation of the law, and if he does not have that desire or no free time, he will not respond to the same violation of the law. And using what I have 10 seconds left, why I ask. Thus, there have been repeated violations of regulations, including 116 articles, but for some reason the President is violating his veto right just now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u201	Thank you for asking. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the veto is based not only on the violation of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but also on other meaningful things that I have reported in my veto, which have become the foundation and basis of this veto. The other one. As for, as you said, a manifest violation, I would like to point out to you that Ukraine is a sovereign law and so forth, and that the fact that there is a violation of one or more rights is established by no other institution other than the court, on the basis of a decision that has entered into force legally. And that's why I wouldn't have given other subjects such an opportunity and authority. Within the limits defined by the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine will react and will point to Parliament, in his view, to violate one or more grounds for building a rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u202	Time's up. Please sit down, Ruslan Alexiyovich. For the next talk, the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and Bezhin Vitaly Yuriovich are invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! On 16 June, the Committee on the Organization of State Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Development of the Old Age Institute, adopted by the Supreme Council on 15 April 2021. The president only made one proposal, namely, section 6 of the Act and delete it, which is what Ruslan Stefanchuk informed us. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, also supports the President's proposals. Having discussed the above-mentioned issue, the Committee unanimously endorsed the conclusion of recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part four and fifth of article 135 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, to accept the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Act "On amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the development of the Institute of Ageing" and to enact legislation in general. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u204	Thank you. Please sign up for the interview. Then we go to the vote. Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u205	Dear reporter! Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. You know, this project from the President is a classic project, when to the barrel, what's the rule that citizens were deprived of their right to choose old age, they added a spoon of honey. But I have a different question. How could your faction vote for violating the Constitution? Do you not feel that you are personally responsible for violating the Constitution by adding it directly to the law and that you, as a committee, have supported it, a rule that is totally out of the Old Ages Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u206	Thank you for asking, Mr. Sergei. The first question was, in fact, the old age and choice institute in general, and it's worth focusing on the fact that it's not the law that we've taken out the direct choices of old age. Direct election of seniority was removed a year ago when you and I voted in favour of the Ukrainian Electoral Code. So when there's a rumor in the room that this particular bill is depriving us of direct election rights, it doesn't fit the reality. As for the amendment that the President had actually made, she voted in the session room, and she was supported by the majority. The President has now stated his position, we consider this position to be reasonable, we support it, and it can be noted that we are correcting the situation that Parliament has allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u207	Juršin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u208	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u209	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u210	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Mr. Vitaly, we had a very heated discussion on the committee about the absurdity of adding a rule on judges of the Constitutional Court to the Old Age Act, but unfortunately the committee supported it. And unfortunately, we had this discussion in the Parliament Hall, where the opposition made it very clear that the Old Age Act could not be regulated by the Constitutional Court's judges. And you don't have to study in law schools for years to understand this absurdity. But unfortunately, first of all, by the voices of your faction, the "Serial of the People" faction supported this proposal. Please tell me, each time that amendments are made on our committee that do not apply to the subject of regulation of the relevant legislative act, will your position as head of the subcommittee be personally maintained, and do you feel that the committee should uphold standards that are in violation of article 116 of the Rules?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u211	Thank you, Mr. Roman. My position has come to an end. First of all, in any situation, it's great that we have filters and fuses to correct, including those imperfect decisions that happen. Now, with regard to 116 articles of the Rules, I am convinced that both the Committee and the Parliament are applying them in the right way when the first reading of the bill approves the decision to use it. As far as my personal position and consideration of the rights on the committee are concerned, I think you know very well that we are trying to go through all the procedures as transparently as possible and to maintain those rights that meet the needs of society and local self-government, because that is what our committee is all about. No exception is there, especially your rights, and the rights of other representatives of the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u212	Let's go to the vote. I'm betting on a vote on a proposal for acceptance in general. I'm sorry. I'm betting on vote number one of the President of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:19:17]] For 317 Decision taken. I am betting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Development of the Old Age Institute, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (registration number 4535). Please support and vote. [[13:19:54]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you. The next question is the bill of registration number 3508-d. I'm so aware that it's going to be 2 minutes, short notice, 4 minutes instead of straights, Alexy Yuriovich, 3 minutes Bondar. Then we go to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I see, I said, "Alexy Yuriovich." I remember everything written down, all the walks recorded. Nobody insists anymore? No, it's not. Anna Constantine's Shortwave for 2 minutes, four revisions after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, I sincerely ask you to feel sorry for our population and ask you to support the four amendments that relate to gas delivery. We've already talked about what we're now accounted for for delivering gas, not according to the gas consumed, but from the cane. And we pay every Ukrainian to deliver the gas as they count it. Why so? And because Firtas has to make a profit. And according to many members of the committee of profile and its head, unfortunately, the logic is that the gas is coming through the pipes and they need to be contained. Of course you should, but I want to remind you that this is a private company, and Ukrainians shouldn't pay for the private company. I ask you very much to support these adjustments and to make every Ukrainian pay for the gas supply according to the amount of gas consumed. And so that we can get our payments written for the amount we pay for. Because so far I have been approached by a lot of people in the district who talk and bring me payments, and they say, tell me how I was charged for electricity or how I was charged for gas, which is the volume, if there is no difference and there are no counters. I'm asking you very much, let's support the Ukrainians, taking into account the prices you set, taking into account those social services promotions, so that people can at least understand what they're paying for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u214	I'm betting on a vote of 593. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:22:58]] For-98 The decision is not taken. 594 revisions. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:16]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 595. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:36]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And 602 corrects, Speedboat. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. Take into account. [[13:23:58]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. The next one, instead of the right hand, is Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich, 4 minutes. Then we put two amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u215	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Unfortunately, dear friends, this bill, which indicates a systemic crisis in the so - called natural gas market, was not sufficiently discussed at our committee meeting. So I just want to calmly draw your attention to the fact that even after the adoption of this bill, which is extremely unnecessary today for local self-government agencies, the thermal utility companies. The crisis will not be fixed. By the way, call it that: overcoming crises and ensuring financial stability. But these issues are not resolved by a single-minute write-off and debt restructuring for this very reason that we are struggling with the consequences, not the reasons. Dear colleagues, you've been in power for two years, and we've heard a lot from you over the past two years, from the monocolation that the predecessors are responsible for. That's not true, my friends. If you analyze the dynamics of debt on the energy market, the dynamics of population debt that goes up by tens of billions, you'll realize that this is already your full responsibility. Colleagues, who are the authors of this crisis? Well, first of all, this is definitely NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, this is the National Energy Regulatory Commission and, of course, the government. Friends, tens of billions of debts. But during this crisis, 10 people from the Naftogazu leadership and the NCRECR have written off bonuses and bonuses for special achievements of 2 billion dollars. Friends, can anyone explain that when NAC Naftogaz became a loser in the 20th year, 120 million dollars of bonuses and special achievements were awarded by members of the NAK Naftogazu government? I would like to point out, dear friends, that while you and I are now offering to solve any problem of old debt, NAC Naftogaz unilaterally puts prices on gas for thermal utility companies, for OSB, which are loved here by everyone in the Chamber of Many Deputies. And these gas prices today will either lead to a 40-50 percent increase in tariffs. Heat tariff in Ternopol - plus 70 per cent increase, heat tariff in Kremenczuk - 53 per cent increase, heat tariff in Kiev - 45 per cent increase, Starocostins - 65 per cent increase. This is just the beginning. And that's why, dear fellows, believe me, if we don't settle the main problem of our situation today in the heat utility system, and this abuse of NAC Naftogazu is a cloudy price for gas, then just one year from now we're going to have to pay off the same amount of debt to another billion. And in the meantime, there's going to be street cover, and excesses, and unlocking, and unlocking, and so on. So, my friends, once again, I want to say, the Fatherland faction, unfortunately, will have to support this bill, because without it we will not enter winter. But now we're going to offer you one key piece to vote on. And I'm pointing out to you that it's very fundamental for each of you to vote for the amendment to regulate the price of gas that will depend on the lives of our Ukrainians. So please be very careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u216	I'm betting on a vote of 591. No, look, we agreed on four minutes and two adjustments. 30 seconds. Alexy Yuryovich, we agreed four minutes in a row. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u217	Mr. Head, this is very important and I'd like a minute. Friends, 591 Kucherenka, Timoshenko, Cimbaluka and others. Its essence is very simple. Heatcommuneration and population companies are supplied with gas from the state-owned Ukrainian mining company with a simple formula: self-sustainment plus profitability of 30 percent. It has just been supported by the Association of Ukrainian Cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u218	Alexi Juryovich, we've agreed on four minutes of the show and two tickets to the vote. I'm betting on a vote of 591. It's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:56]] For-92 The decision is not taken. 637 amendment, I'll put it to the vote. It's not supported by the committee either, the Kucherenka amendment. Please identify and vote. [[13:30:20.]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Bondar is three minutes, and we're going to vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u219	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, European Solidarity. My colleagues have actually told us all about this bill and what abuses there are. It looks like, colleagues, I'll remind you, a bill that we voted on earlier on "Scrooge." And including where there was a repair on the miners. That's what it looks like here. We have to write down the debts of Firthash and, among other things, we have to listen to the proposals of the City Association, and we have to settle the question of communtépénergo. So first of all, we need to address the issue, as colleague Anya Speedhod said, of transporting gas. Because, in fact, payments are coming for unused gas, and you have to at least get the facts. And the Cabinet of Ministers has already promised to do so for over a year and a half. To unite the two payments and not to pay the population for the unused gas, but only to pay for the transportation of the gas consumed. I want to say that I'm a senior deputy in a five-month period, six-year-old, and I get a call from the residents about the abuse of deception, where when they take down the counters, they draw up the indicators, and then they open up criminal conduct. In the Lviv region, there has already been criminal delinquent delinquency on the rise of debt for the population. If you have such problems, contact the police and tell them to join the criminal investigation. Instead, I'll remind you, if you vote for this law, it's a gift from Firthash. As far as I can remember, Firtash is already on the sanctions list, as far as I can remember. So this is a fight called yours with the oligarchs. Instead of fighting the oligarchs, you're creating the TSC and you want to show what your struggle is. I want to speak to Mr. Head. Dmitri, I, look what I want to ask you. On June 16, one of the TSCs was to report on its activities. That's why the mines are damaged. Unfortunately, it has been a month since the TSC reported the damage to the mines. Why damage mines? I'll tell you why. Because coal comes from the aggressor country, it doesn't work its own coal. Because there's no wages in coal miners, they're shelling, not extracting coal. Because there's no money in the budget to upgrade mines. That's why they're corrupt. So given all this and understanding that the law is necessary for the Association of Cities, "European Solidarity" will still abstain from voting for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u220	Thank you. Let's go to the vote for the law. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law on Measures to Cope With Crisis and Ensure Financial Stability in the Natural Gas Market (registration number 3508-d). Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:34:16]] For 303 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next. Announcement. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, the previous law before that didn't work for us. So, with your permission, two statements from the national MPs. One of the distinguished National Deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, who was in favor of Law 5069. Please consider my voice "restraint." And the second is from the People's MP Skorik, who, when voting for Bill 5069, didn't work. Please don't count my vote for the bill. People's MP Skork. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u222	Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Law (registration number 5660) on the enforcement of decisions. It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:35:36]] For 256 Decision taken. The vice president of the Committee on Legal Policy, Valérie Ivanovich, is invited to attend. Give me four minutes from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u223	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Today, a bill on forced enforcement is being proposed to your attention, which has been worked out by the Legal Policy Committee of the Working Group. This is a system of legislation that provides for legal regulation, the organization of enforcement agencies, and the enforcement of decisions. It should be noted that the execution of judicial decisions today remains a challenging stage in judicial conduct. The lack of enforcement or the long-term enforcement of judicial decisions and decisions by other bodies does not achieve the ultimate objective of justice, namely, the protection of the interests of citizens and the real restoration of their rights violations, which have a negative impact on the protection of rights in Ukraine. The proposed bill, registration number 5660, is a comprehensive improvement in the enforcement process. I would like to point out that since 2016 the system of enforcement of judicial decisions and decisions by other authorities in Ukraine has provided for a mixed model whereby enforcement of decisions relies on public enforcement agencies and private contractors. At the same time, the mandate of a private executive is somewhat limited. The performance indicators of the private enforcement system are more than twice that of the state enforcement system, 5.8 percent against 2.3 percent. Taking into account the success of the Institute of Private Executives and the overall dissatisfaction with the implementation of decisions in Ukraine, the issue of restricting the powers of private executives requires a thorough review. The granting of powers to private contractors to implement a decision in favour of the State will decommission the authorities of the State’s executive service and will contribute to the increase of funds to the state budget of Ukraine. It should be noted that the existing enforcement mechanisms are outdated. The lack of regulation in most of the categories of decisions results in the State, business, and citizens losing money, confidence in justice in general, because they do not achieve protection and renewal of their rights. As co-author and head of the working group, I ask the Chamber to support the adoption of the bill as a whole. And I would like to point out from the committee that the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy considered the bill at its meeting on July 6, 2021. In turn, the committee points out that Ukraine’s problem of implementing national courts’ decisions has led to numerous appeals to the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly pointed out violations of the rights guaranteed by the Constitution as a result of shortcomings in the regulatory and administrative practices of public authorities, which are broad and complex and require comprehensive and comprehensive measures, possibly involving different national authorities. On the basis of this, the Committee agrees with the need for a comprehensive improvement in the order of enforcement in Ukraine. And the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Law on Forced Enforcement of Decisions (registration number 5660), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Bozík, Kostin, Tarasenk and others, as a result of the first reading, to accept as a basis. Ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce in plenary a bill on the need for a part of article 116 of the Rules on Proposals and Amendments, Corrections, Refinements, Errors and Contraventions in the Text of the Bill, Other Structural Parts or Other Legislative Acts, which were not considered in the first reading and corresponded to the subject of legal regulation of the bill. Dear colleagues, please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u224	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u225	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u226	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u227	Thank you so much for your word. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, I recall that almost two months ago, a representative of the committee stood on the rostrum, stood by the Ministry of Justice and told us how we should quickly adopt a short law to meet the demands of the macrophin and receive appropriate assistance from the European Union. Which was, I'm not going to renegotiate the entire law, but the Transitional Regulations have given such a serious oath that by 2024 there will be more than 1,000 private contractors in Ukraine and they'll be working in a completely different way. I then said that this law was doomed, it would never become law, but you would certainly see the need to make complex changes to legislation, and you would have to do so without delay. And thank God that this happened and the committee supported that position, and here indeed and the reporter Valeriy Ivanovich, his role as the heads of the appropriate working group is very great that we can now consider this bill as an attempt to update that system of private contractors, which unfortunately is not so old, because it was only launched in 2016. But over the past five years, much has changed for the part of the approach to private performers. Unfortunately, there are great problems with access to the profession. And this law does certain things that simplify access to this profession, initiates appropriate preparation immediately after the completion of the qualification exam, allows you to re-examine the qualification exam three months after a person has failed that exam. New ones are being introduced, let's say, elements of digitization that have been established in Ukraine over the last few years. And that's very good. A large proportion of these powers, which are now being reviewed by private artists, change instead. And our faction will certainly support this bill. But we are against adopting it today as a whole, we think it needs further elaboration and preparation of a comprehensive draft in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u228	Thank you. Please, Ustenko Alexei, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u229	Please pass the word to Tarasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u230	Tarasenko Taras, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u231	Hello, everyone! This is a very important bill for our nation. We initiated it almost eight months ago, and a really working group based on the legal committee worked hard. In close cooperation with our European partners, the Association of Private Executives and the Ministry of Justice. There have been a lot of discussions about strengthening the role of private performers in Ukraine, because they have shown that they are really effective. An appeal for enforcement of a court decision against a private executioner in 90 cases means his immediate actual execution. Because our people understand that the private contractor doesn't take bribes and his job is to make decisions. Unfortunately, the State Executive Service cannot show such efficiency, and we must improve it, which is also provided for in this comprehensive bill. So we will improve it between the first and the second readings clearly. But now I'm asking everyone to support it so that we have clear conditions for the execution of all court decisions and we've increased our ratings both in Europe and in the world. Since the execution of court decisions is equal to two percent of the total amount of money raised in Ukraine, this does not meet any European principles and is not at all equal to what our citizens deserve. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u232	The word is given to the people’s deputy, Jury Ivanovich. Nestor Ivanovich, right, do I understand? Yes, please, Yuri Ivanovich, pass the word to Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u233	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Suffrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u234	I'm very happy to do this. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, maybe the law is good, but it's the same thing as Habakkuk. Is it timely to implement it now? We're fine, people have such incomes that they've already begun to abuse the decisions of the judges. It's all right. That's 1854 miserable bracelets. That's enough to punish people right now. So let's find some more private, private ones. Let's get some dogs on the ground! What are you doing, good people? What's your name? I think it's "ministers of the people." No, you're not "ministers of the people" - you're persecutors of the people! You are now looking for ways to persecute, catch up with people. Well, how can you do that? Well, conscience must have! First, give people a just life, fair tariffs, decent income, and then punish them for abuse of authority! Punish what the authorities have done for people, and people have returned to power with their backs and abuse. What are you doing now? The government’s executive service is not enough, so the authority needs to be strengthened. You know who you are. It's actually already. What do they call them, who's out of debt? So today these collectors, who are actually racketeers, have to be stopped, not strengthened by this law. I'm begging you, stop! Work and think for people, not against people. And if people can’t pay anything anymore, think about why this is happening. Perhaps because life is too rich and pensions are scarce. You're done with poverty.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u236	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u237	Please pass the word to Lubinci Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u238	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u239	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will vote and support this bill. Unlike the previous speaker, we clearly understand that there are two sides to court: there is a prosecutor who is the same citizen of Ukraine, and his rights must also be protected. Of course, if we see that state institutions as government contractors do not create confidence, they have long-standing court decisions, it's absolutely logical to take the experience of European countries, it's a positive experience where private contractors have been introduced. That's why we don't see the problem, but we see a perfectly logical continuation of the reform when it's compared to the rights of both private and state contractors. So it's logical, everything's right. We're going to vote for it and we're going to call the House to vote for it. And I also point out that this bill is a very good novelty, given that we have digitization, that debtors of their own volition can pay, for example, through the "Dia" plugin of a small amount of debt, and this is also a movement forward and a development of our state. Therefore, honourable national MPs, this is a positive reform. We're going to vote in favour and we're going to urge the national MPs to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u240	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u241	Thank you, Mr. Head. But they say yes, vote yes. But know what you're voting for. First. You're voting for the fact that the benefits can be made from pensions and scholarships. So people who get a thousand 700 dollars out of this money you're going to make a withdrawal. Second thing. Private and public contractors now want to ban people from going abroad without a court order. This is recorded in this law. Without a court order. And the third thing that's written about right now. It's written that if you owe more than 61,000, you can take your last apartment and move you out. That's what this law is about. It's not really reform, it's total robbery. Anyone who wants to vote for this is useless. Fatherland won't vote for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-14-m0.u242	All those who wish to speak? Please invite the people's deputies, let's go to the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, the draft Law on Forced Enforcement of Decisions (Registration No. 5660). Please support and vote. [[13:51:50]] For 274 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've got eight minutes left, we're not going to be able to get through the question. There are some questions, if there is no discussion, that we should vote now. Is there no objection? First. It's 5740. Vote. It's our decision, right? I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Appointment Order in 2021 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Young Scientists — Doctors of Science (registration number 5740). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:53:26]] For 350. Decision taken. Question number 5753, this is the TSC, the TSC report. Right? Tsk about the children. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Resolution on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of cases and causes of violations of the rights of the child during the decentralization of child protection powers, the reform of the system of institutions of institutional care and upbringing, the realization of the right of the child to family education and adoption, the development (modernization) of social services (registration number 5753). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:54:35]] For 343 Decision taken. Next question of order. You don't get it. This is draft Law 2325: draft Act amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. I'm betting on the vote for acceptance. Bardini, give me your word. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's all right. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 73 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (Registration No. 2325). Please support and vote. [[13:55:48]] For 317 Decision taken. The next issue is the bill of registration number 3476, 3477. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, they insist on editing. Thank you. Are you insisting on the papers? All of it. Then I suggest we move on to ratifications, we have a few minutes. Ratification registration number 0110. Can we put it on? I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the area of housing for representatives of the Crimean Tatar people and the tax categories of Ukrainian citizens (registration No. 0110). Please support and vote. [[13:57:03]] For 333 109th with a discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, if you don't. No, then we'll put it off. The next question is the draft law. Everything? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Then do we vote? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Financial Agreement Ratification Act between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0109). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:57:55]] For 336 Decision taken. Next question. Colleagues, would you please tell Bill 2329, there are six rights, someone who will insist on law enforcement? It's a bill amending the law on the protection of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons. Can we set it up? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons on Liberation. What "stop"? You insist. You pay attention to each other, and you come back. I am voting for the release of internally displaced persons from the negative consequences of default. — Registration No. 2329. Please support and vote. [[13:59:17]] For 339 Decision taken. Ratification 0114. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Part Agreement establishing a Cooperation Group in the fight against drug abuse and illegal circulation (registration No. 0114). Please support and vote. [[13:59:51]] For 348 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, 2 p.m., the plenary session of Ukraine is closed. Please don't break up.
