ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Good morning, members of the media! I'm happy to welcome you all. Please prepare to register. I'm reminded that registration takes place with the sensor button and the green button, the first button on the left. Once again, the sensor button is pressed first, then the pro button, and it's important to keep track of the results. Prepare for registration, please. Are you ready to register? Ready? Please register. [[10:03:47]] There are 236 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleagues Roman Volodymyrovich Kaptielov and Andrija Andryovich Kločka. [[Applause]] I welcome you personally from my colleagues! I wish you success, strength, achievement, new victories and always move forward! Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to remind you that we're continuing the SOVID epidemic, the pandemic. Please, if you are not speaking, be in masks. During the performance, I understand that everyone takes off their masks, yes, but when you're in the hall. Because no one canceled the fines. Or let us somehow form a foundation and help some school, kindergarten, or kindergarten. Do you have a deal? I see you're ready to join this process. Grigory Mikolaiovich's mom is ready to give money to the children's fund. It's a deal. Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have 30 minutes to speak on Tuesday from the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, statements, and messages. Please sign up for the factions. Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna. Who, Kostenko? Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, yesterday we all watched another interview of our journalists about the failure of the special operation, the so-called special operation of the "vagnerians", which we were once again called the names of those who were temporary to this special operation. We are still waiting for all the exits to be investigated by foreign journalists who will tell us what happened in our country, in our services, in our office of president. What have we done? We're a faction of Voice, and I've directly registered Decree 4105 to create a temporary investigation commission to investigate this case. Because protecting our spies and national interests is what we should do on the committee, and right here in Parliament. What does the authorities now try to do? He's trying to create a temporary commission of inquiry, which will include the factions and MPs who didn't want to join the commission of inquiry before that, and figure out what happened at the President's Office, whether there was treason at a higher level or not. What do we have now? We think that this committee is now trying to really hide the truth that would be defined by this commission, this commission is just going to blur. Yes, I know that it is necessary to investigate the Medvedchuk gossip, and I need to investigate Ilovysk, and I need to investigate Crimea. But first of all, we need to investigate whether we have traitors in the higher leadership of the state, whether our services can work properly and think about what the country really protects them. Now we're really after the ex- gur and ex-head gur, and the co-workers who took a direct part in this special operation. I urge everyone, colleagues, we need to create a temporary commission of inquiry directly on the "vagants", vote on Decree 4105, and show the whole community whether there was a betrayal or not. And that's exactly what we have to do as a parliament here, not create something like this to close it down. Let's protect our spies, let's tell people the truth. Vote in 4105. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u3	Labazuk Sergey Petrovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, we have a very busy agenda this week. Today in the daytime again "earth and men," only to make it easier for people to do so. You know, our MP group is thinking about the future, about the future of our communities, about our people. And we also urge Parliament, first of all, as a higher legislature, not to focus on the past so as not to jump into the banal witch hunt, and in this way not to distract society from the painful problems that society is facing today. Because we are convinced that the poorer society today, the easier it is to manipulate it, the easier it is to exercise external authority. We've been reminding ourselves that today's critical housing defaults have reached over 70 billion dollars, and more than 30 billion of them are non-payments for gas, and we have to do something about it. Because when people get payments, they just obviously don't pay because there's nothing to pay for. And I think we need to go back to the economically sound tariffs on gas -- a topic that we can't completely deal with with with the government, and look at how to determine the wholesale price on it. To put in place effective revenue-removal mechanisms that are now in GTS and Naftogaz Ukraine, which actually led to this situation. And according to our estimate, experts estimate, this is the order of 20 billion dollars of revenue that can be eliminated and channelled as a subsidy to local authorities to pay off the debt before the Heatcommunerge and the TES, and thus facilitate preparation for the next heating season. We also encourage very actively to join in the way the government today is negotiating with the IMF, which no longer gives us money, because we are entering the debt hole again. And we want the Supreme Council of Ukraine here to be the subject of the Supreme Council's decision to oblige the government to adhere to certain socio-economic orientations in negotiations with the IMF and to establish on a legislative level the right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify any agreement with international financial organizations. Friends, the last question is the pandemic. It's not getting any easier now. We see a critical vaccination situation, actually it doesn't last, actually it hasn't unfolded. Moreover, against the backdrop of the vaccination, the very vaccine AstraZeneca, which is being rejected by the left side of Europe, of course, has no faith and trust in society and the Ministry of Health, which carries out this vaccine, and directly to this vaccine. We're waiting for answers to these questions from the government, we're waiting for answers to these questions from the Ministry. How long are we going to be inoculating the nation: 10 years, 20 years, 30 years? The vaccine will survive us all, it looks like it, but we have a major healthy society, a healthy nation, and we want to hear the answers from the government and from the government's "hour of government." We're going to insure people, we're going to build disease relief funds -- that's the first thing we need, as part of the vaccine we're waiting for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u5	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy of Bužan Maksim Arkadyovich, a faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Mariana Bezugla, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u6	Are there traitors in the superior leadership of the state? Is there corruption? Is there corruption in our intelligence? Is there corruption in the Ukrainian Security Service? I don't think anyone will deny that our country has these risks, and everyone has faced some kind of manifestation. But let's give my personal experience. From 2015 to 2019, I worked at the Ministry of Defense, and you know what my first project was -- this is a school of combat medicine. Do you know why? Because in 2013 a methodical and special school of health instructors was closed down. And when the war happened, we didn't have any health instructors. Military forces were shut down in a methodical and sequential manner. Then, methodically and consistently, we made decisions not to protect Crimea. Then, methodically and consistently, we had negotiations with those who were killing us. We're about to have the seventh year of war, sorry, seven years, eight years, war with the Russian Federation. And all these events leave spots in our country -- that's the lives of us, our military personnel, our volunteers, and the mobilized. Today we are given a historic chance, within what Parliament can do and how Parliament should act, and how Parliament should not remain silent, to find out the truth about those moments of screaming, about the overall picture and the sequence of decisions taken and coordination between the military officials, among the officials who have led us to what we have now. And we will not keep our mouths shut, nor will we give priority to any high - ranking man. We are methodically and consistently investigating a number of resonance events. And it is sad that the TSK is still perceived as a political instrument that impresses one or another faction, because the TSK is objective and active when the parliament unites. So I call on those factions that have not given their political ambitions to people to change their decisions and join in with parliamentary supervision and control.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u7	The alien Boris Viktorovich. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u8	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, I would like to raise an extremely important question: financing our united territorial communities, especially the newly created ones. On their shoulders now is a huge financial burden, which is primarily linked to the transfer of the functions of former RDAs to the united territorial communities. As long as the state loses huge amounts of money each year from customs corruption and VAT cuts, our communities are in fact underfunded. According to the National Council for Reforms, the damage to government corruption schemes is $37 billion a year, which is essentially another state budget for Ukraine. And not only do law enforcement work here, but I think the Supreme Council should work as a legislative body. We recently voted, and it's already entered into force -- a law that aims to combat VAT strikes in the agar sector. I'm sure this job has to go on in other ways in order to gradually get the economy out of the shadows, because it's primarily taxes and it's taxes on local budgets. The Trust MP is constantly receiving a huge number of appeals from the united territorial communities, from the heads of the OTG with funding problems. So we came out with an initiative and registered Bill 5244 and Bill 5245, which proposes to establish a fair distribution of taxes on the income of individuals between local budgets. Because the present system of things is imperfect. These bills were signed by almost all the MPs and groups. We think they're going to vote, and the communities are going to get a good signal for their work. And another very important issue that today concerns the united territorial communities is land management outside of populated areas. The bill that decides this, 2194 is now in order of the day. I want to say that the Supreme Council of the past convened, it just didn't have the political will to vote it out, and as a result, a lot of land was lost and torn apart during that period. And communities have been waiting for this bill to be passed for years. Well, an official from the district center can't handle haystacks, cities, pastures, even cemeteries. This should be done only by united territorial communities. So if we really want to complete the decentralization reform, if we want to create powerful united territorial communities, we have to give them authority, and we have to give them resources. So we vote for such bills that will really make our communities strong, powerful and self-sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u9	Murmich Anatoly Petrovich. Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Speaker! Dear National Deputies! We cannot pretend in this room that we do not see the breakup of the Armistice at Donbassa. We were all happy when the shooting stopped last July. There was a truce agreement and it was relatively quiet until the end of the year. But now we see that the truce is gone. Since the beginning of the year, there have been fatalities and injuries. We have a clear understanding that a truce can only be the basis for a further political solution to the conflict. Our political force, our faction, is ready to adopt laws that will enable us to finally resolve the conflict and stop the shooting. We urge today’s authorities to negotiate a truce as soon as possible, as a basis for further progress in the East War, because it is the desire of all the Ukrainian people. The second question I want to raise today is labour migration. I think this has become a real threat to our national security today. All leave: locksmiths, doctors, engineers, welders. Frankly, if it wasn't for the pandemic, for the closure of borders in Russia and Europe, we would have no one to work in businesses. And we don't see in today's government even hinting that there's a supply and job creation program. I'm moving on to the specifics. In our Parliament, the first reading of Law 3739 was six months ago, which is very simple. If something is bought at the state budget, it should have a domestic component: from 10 percent this year, to 50 percent in a few years. This is the real support of our domestic producer. According to the Ukrainian Employers' Federation, the adoption of this law will allow for the opening of 60,000 jobs and the preservation of 200,000 jobs. We need to adopt this law. And the government has to negotiate with all the factions who are not ready to support it in the hall, agree and adopt the law in this room. We're willing to vote for this, we're calling on the whole Parliament to do this because it's very important to our producers, to create jobs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u11	Chigoz Ahtem Zeitullajovich. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u12	Dear Ukrainians, on Sunday, Ukraine celebrated Volunteer Day. On behalf of the faction of European Solidarity, I would like to welcome and thank everyone who has not remained indifferent to the protection of the Ukrainian state from Russian aggression. Unfortunately, Zelensky's policies have solved the hands of the Anti-Maidan, who is trying to avenge all patriots. Dozens of veterans, volunteers, volunteers, remain behind bars and succumb to political persecution. For the second year in a row, the day of the volunteer meets veteran Andrew Antonenko behind bars. There are still no infamous cases against Sophia Fedina, Marousi the Beast, Tetjana the Blackwall, and many others. And there is a systematic emergence of new, questionable conduct. That's how Zelensky doesn't speak, but he actually understands justice. For a month now, "European Solidarity" has called for a review of Decree 5100 against the political persecution of citizens. The repression against the patriots must cease immediately, starting with the release of Reef, which the President, without trial and sufficient evidence, has found guilty of murder. I also want to remind you that just seven years ago, there was a pseudoferendum under the guns in Crimea. And it was the Fifth Column of the Kremlin, and among them, the heads of the raid, the heads of the townspeople, the heads of the village councils, helped the aggressor in his organization. Therefore, Bill 5135 on the involvement of the aggressor should be considered without delay. It is clear that simply sanctioning the RNA is not enough to completely neutralize the activities of the pro-Russian forces in Ukraine. That's why we're preparing a film investigation into the failure of a special operation to detain "vagners" because of the leak of classified information from the Greens office. Thus, the Law on Collaboration is even more important for punishing traitors. For six months, the majority refused to put people on our temporary commission of inquiry into Wagnergate. And all of a sudden, before the prime minister of Bellingcat's investigation, the "servants" and the "fifth column" of the Kremlin want to create their own TSC. Obviously, this is not to establish facts, but to cover up the treason of Zelensky’s team. How can we prevent the President’s Office from hiding behind a smoke curtain from the state just as they hide from escalating on the front of the armistice? Very simple: to support the joint initiative of the pro-Ukrainian opposition to create a commission in Decree 4105. Then society will finally learn the whole truth about Wagnergate, and honest Ukrainian intelligence and intelligence officers will be protected. Next. We're going to see a complete failure in the rate of vaccination. Journalists estimate that with the current pace, Ukraine will not be able to use nearly half of the Sowishield party. And throwing a vaccine into the midst of an epidemic is another sentence for Zelensky's professional qualities and his team. And finally about sanctions. The government seems to be imposing sanctions on Medvedchuk. And the "quart" that de facto belongs to Zelenski gets money from Medvedczuk and Colomaski through 1+1. But what's weird is if Greensky's quarter wasn't scratching cash stolen from Private Bank, and he's still making money in the aggressor country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u13	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u14	I would now like to address all Ukrainian citizens who are now listening to us or seeing us, not to Parliament. Not to Parliament because, unfortunately, all national interests have been sold and resold in Parliament. I listened to all the speeches from this rostrum, and I have not heard a single word about what is being prepared for Ukraine for today and this week. But when I read the agenda, I understood why a few weeks ago information space was so mad and so loud. Because they're really covering up, I'd say, this historic give-up of Ukraine's national interests. Because this week, it's not about fighting SOVID, it's not about creating national human protection funds, it's not about insurance medicine, it's not even about tariffs. This week, bills have been put in place that finally deprive the Ukrainian nation of Ukrainian agricultural land. I want to go to the Ukrainians right now, because in this room you're being elected, your children and all your future generations. The 2194 bill, which has thousands of rights now, is a continuation of essentially depriving the Ukrainian nation of agricultural land. In this bill, the understanding of the "particularly valuable land" of the black countries that can now be sold out is disappearing. This bill removes the position of the Earth’s Codex, which was banned from taking one foot [1 m] of the upper layer of the earth. This ban is lifted and the top layer of the earth can be removed. I want to remind you that fertile land is exactly 1 meter of soil. 40 centimeters is black earth. 1 percent of the gum, and we have 4.6, 100 years of molding. And what is now being adopted in this law is taking away Ukraine's control of land, influence, the right to profit, continues that history and strategy of selling land to foreigners through foreign banks. And this law places a dot on Ukrainian farming. Because from 90 to 95, farmers were given land, from 91 to 97 even, 50 acres free, and that's where our farming is kept. This law will take this land from farmers if they do not find a penny to pay for it. This law is anti - Ukrainian. This law, which destroys Ukrainian independence, Ukrainian sovereignty, and Ukrainian right to live. So pay attention to today’s day and fight, do not give up Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, a statement has now been made for a recess with a replacement for the performance. Kira Aleksandrovna Rudik. Then we go to the vote for the ruling. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u16	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The last two months of the Voice party's team travelled to Ukraine with a presentation of the National Voice Plan for 2021. We traveled 27 cities and over 6,000 miles [6,000 km] to hear personally about all the problems that plague Ukrainians. Let me be honest: From Lviv to Mariupol, people have the same problems. Of course, the pandemic is a major threat, but most of the economic problems and they have accumulated for decades. The good news is that we know about these problems and we've put together systemic solutions to solve them. This plan is called the Economic Plan of the National Voice 21st Year Plan. So we can constructively and professionally approach the problems of how to finance the real needs of citizens without increasing taxes. What exactly are we proposing in the economic context of the 2021 Voice? First of all, it's a moratorium on business checks. All over Ukraine, entrepreneurs complain that they are being tested while people are trying to survive quarantine. The moratorium, which was introduced in the 20th year by the Voice party, stopped over 6,000 checks and, at the same time, the moratorium brought an additional 50 billion dollars into the budget. This is a powerful testimony that the state will win when money stays in business, not in the pockets of inspectors. So we urge you to continue the moratorium on business checks. Step two is tax reform. We have to end wages in envelopes. We are convinced that only by lowering taxes on work will we allow a large part of wages to be removed from the shadows. At the same time, we offer at least 2 percent of the taxes paid on wages to send to personal retirement accounts. I mean, at the same time, we're in the process of finally implementing a cumulative pension reform. The step of the third economic plan of the Voice for the 21st year is to get the money back from the offshore. That's why we're offering to have an amnesty of capital. What does that mean? An offshore business can legalize these costs. And the Voice Party has already registered the corresponding Bill 5154-1. Where do we propose to send the money we received? To the Pension Fund to cover his deficit and to the environmental fund. Because ecology is not a Western fashion fan, it's the health of our citizens. Ukrainians spend more than 13 billion dollars a year on the treatment of environmental diseases, and we need to change it immediately. The Voice Party knows how.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here are some announcements, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. And then we're going to look at the issues. Please invite the national deputies to the hall again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 60 with the prime - badge The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the 9th Interfractional Union of the BezSave in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of this interfractional union elected the national deputies of Ukraine, Mezentsev Maria Sergiyevna and Vašilko Lesio Volodymyrna. Also in line with article 60 with the prim badge. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation of the interfractional "Chess for All" MPs. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Artemyovna, was elected head of this association. Next. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "Stop COVID!".. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Rabbinovich Vadim Zinovovich, was elected head of this association. And the last. In accordance with article 60 with the prime badge. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional FOP MPs. The headquarters of this union are the National Deputies of Ukraine, Kachuru Alexandra Anatoliyevich, Rudik Sergio Jaroslavovich, Light Julia Alexandrovna, Black Viktor Ivanovich, Bilozar Larissa Mikolayivna, Yvchenka Vadim Evgenovich. I welcome colleagues to create interfractional connections.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the Order whose project you've been given. This is a draft of the Order for Change in the Order of the Day of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (register No. 4690-5). From Heratchenko’s motives. Who else? Let's move on to the vote. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I would like to stress once again that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not just a monotony, it is an opposition. And for more than a year and a half, the opposition has no right here to conduct its drafts. TSC is an important mechanism of opposition, a control function over power. And we haven't been able to put the day-to-day Tsk on the Sheremet case, the TSC on the pandemic situation, the TSC on the Wagner case. An international investigation is already under way, and we are hiding like ostrich heads in the sand. Nor do we understand why President Greensky's draft legislation on declarations and the return of criminal responsibility is put into the agenda while blocked, for example, by our bills, which were previously filed and which have returned criminal responsibility for the declaration to be unreliable, including imprisonment. And we demand that this whole package be placed in the agenda on Wednesday, and so are the laws of collaboration.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u21	Thank you. He's got a motive for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u22	Honorary colleagues, for a month now 48 drafts are constantly being submitted to the Conciliation Council for the leadership of the Supreme Council, and this time a bill is included. And so these are bills that are still being approved, like, for example, with the COVID countermeasure, but they're being approved in some strange way. Our faction insists on dozens of bills that deal with regulation and the tax system, and socio-economic key parameters, and the energy system, the fight against COVID, they're somehow out of line. A number of bills relating to occupied territories to support citizens in these areas are not included in the agenda. We insist that these questions be included without reservation. That is why, unfortunately, we will not vote in favour of such order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u23	From Koltunović's motives, then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u24	Thank you. Mr. Golovo, with regard to the draft regulation proposed today, out of 39 draft legislative acts, only eight are draft laws from the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" and in this case a proportionate principle has been upheld. This list is also supported by the draft Decree, but in our view, the priority and priority of those bills that need to be included are still to address pressing socio-economic problems. Because, for example, the publication of tariff and municipal debt data is 81 billion dollars, it shows that there should be a slightly different priority. Once again, however, this draft regulation is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u25	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, let's be frank, 13 bills where your faction members are either authors or co-authors, 13. Please, I can show you. Thank you. Please proceed to the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 4690-5). Ready to vote? I remind you, voting takes place by pressing both the sensor button and the pro button, or "against," or "retained." It is essential that the results of the vote be maintained until the results are fixed. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:38:32]] For 267 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the bill (registration number 5133). The draft Law (Registration No. 5133) amending articles 85 and 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine (as regards the appointment and discharge of the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation) is being submitted to your consideration. A bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine was submitted by 237 Ukrainian national deputies. According to the requirements of part one of article 146 of the Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. One of the initiators of the report is Fedor Vladimirovich Venislavski, a national deputy of Ukraine. Rules up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u26	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! Today, in the Supreme Council, we have a very important bill to consider, which is to become the next step in the fight against corruption and crime in the higher echelons of the state's crime committed by senior officials. Why is it important for us today to adopt a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine? Because, first of all, the problem of corruption in Ukraine is very serious and is aware not only of the politicians of all the virtually political forces represented in Parliament, but of all the Ukrainian societies. I want to remind you that the fight against corruption was one of the key requirements of the Dignity Revolution in 2014. The Supreme Council of the Prior Council, with a view to achieving its anti-corruption goals, adopted the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act in 2014. This law provided for the establishment of a special state body, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, and provided for a special procedure for the appointment of the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. But is it because of the lack of supervision of the individual national deputies of the previous call of the Supreme Council, whether it was intentionally in the law that the President authorized the appointment of the Director of the NAB and the release of the Director of the NAB, which was not provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine. As a result, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine received constitutional submissions on the unconstitutionality of those provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act, which provided for such powers by the President. And we all know that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has recognized as part of the President's mandate to appoint the Director of the NAB by this law, which does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. That is why the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, after considering the constitutional submission of Ukrainian national deputies, admitted that it was not in accordance with the Ukrainian Constitution, Presidential Decree on the appointment of the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. In order for us to have an effective anti-corruption mechanism, we must adopt a bill under registration number 5133, which foresees that the Director of the NAB, as well as the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, will be appointed and dismissed from office as President. But first, by the results of the open competitive selection, which must be directly enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine; and b) by the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So the way we're going to do the selection is with you, and I think once the Constitutional Court makes the right positive, and we're going to adopt this bill, we're going to work together, we're going to work together, we're going to work together, we're going to work together, we're going to develop the most effective legal mechanism for a competition for the Director of the NAB and the Director of the DBD. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its consideration of the bill, which was initiated by the President of Ukraine in August 2019, pointed out, in a motivating part, that there should be a balance between the branches of power in the appointment procedure, the discharge of directors of this important anti-corruption body and the equally important law enforcement body involved in the fight against crime in the public authorities, the State Bureau of Investigation. I would like to remind all citizens of Ukraine and, above all, the Ukrainian National Deputies that the establishment and enforcement of constitutional rights and freedoms is the main task of the Ukrainian State, which is enshrined in article 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Ukrainian citizens demand that the authorities step up the fight against corruption directly in order to strengthen Ukraine’s position in the perception of corruption. I want to remind everyone that during the period since the Dignity Revolution, during the functioning of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, and its function has been in such half-stretched status all the time, because many of the national deputies and representatives of our Parliament have addressed the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and in public space have expressed doubts that the Director of the NABU has been appointed in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. That is why we propose to establish the procedure proposed in this bill (5133). This bill contains two key heads of state authorities with special status to be appointed President by the Supreme Council and may be dismissed from office by the Supreme Council. The first body, as I said before, is the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, which is the main body in the investigation of corruption crimes committed primarily by high-level owners. Undoubtedly, the greatest corruption risks are characterized by an executive sphere that has the capacity to manage budgetary resources. It is precisely where the use of the funds of Ukraine’s state budget is, as has been the case, that corruption is taking place. Because many nimble plots, where a catchy reflex is stronger than a patriotic position, try to provide wealth for themselves and their offspring. In order not to identify one body that aims to combat corruption in the executive structure, in which the most widespread corruption risks occur, it is proposed that this body director should be appointed President-in-Office as the guarantor of human and civil rights and freedoms, and by the agreement of the Supreme Council, which will no longer allow any political speculation that has so far occurred in the proceedings, or the accusations that are being made regarding the appointment of DBR directors, NAB. Secondly, I want to say that this is the status of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which aims to ensure the maximum independence of this body from any political power and the corresponding maximum impact of this public body. The State Bureau of Investigation, which is also an authority of the State to combat crimes in the public authorities and, above all, crimes committed by high officials, must also have the highest legal status. That is why the Director of the DBD is invited to appoint the President for the results of an open-ended transparent competition and with the agreement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The President and also the Supreme Council of Ukraine agree that the liberation takes place. All the political forces that are represented in our parliament, when they go to elections, have declared their intentions to fight corruption. All political forces have declared their intentions to fight crime in the highest levels of government. And I think that's exactly the right point where all political forces can demonstrate their loyalty to those words and slogans that they claimed during the pre-election program that they claim in public space. Therefore, I ask all colleagues represented in Parliament, regardless of political preferences, to support today's Supreme Council regulation and to forward this bill to be evaluated by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to comply with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Once again, today's vote aims only to refer this bill to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. That is why I ask all Parliamentary colleagues to support this bill. And, as the Head of the Supreme Council has said, this bill is already supported by the signatures of 237 Ukrainian national deputies. I invite all other representatives of Parliament to join in supporting this bill by voting. Thank you for your attention. Ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the interview. Rules up to 9 minutes. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u28	Please pass the word to Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u29	Again, I'm sorry. Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u30	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Feder Volodymyrovich, I would like to clarify for myself the questions I was trying to ask at the committee meeting. Sadly, he was not fully satisfied with the answers. Maybe this time you can argue more specifically. I have a very simple question. During his first day in Parliament, the President himself said that this bill to amend the Constitution was then number 1014, as far as my memory is concerned, it is a priority for him as one of the programming principles. I have a very simple question. Why won't the President turn him in now? What happened? What was the problem with the President, which made you, including yourself, initiate a signing assembly among the national deputies? And this congregation, it turns out, lasted almost a year. Why did we waste such a precious time if this was so urgently needed by the President at the time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u31	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich, for your questions. I want to remind you that the fight against corruption, the fight against crime, is not just a pre-election program by President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine, it is also one of the main elements of the political party's pre-election program "Serve of the People". The President of Ukraine, initiating a bill in 2019 to amend the Constitution, effectively implemented his constitutional law and gave Parliament a parliamentary review of the bill from which the Constitutional Court of Ukraine concluded negatively that it did not meet the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. That is why I, as one of Ukraine’s national deputies, proposed to my colleagues and collected signatures in Parliament. I think that the very fact that 237 people's deputies of Ukraine have been signed under this bill is eloquent enough and confirms that this bill is a priority for both the President and for the political power that is represented in Parliament and which supports the President's initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u32	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Ruslan Knyazevich. Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u34	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u35	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich, for your answer. I have another question that I also tried to ask during the committee meeting. The question of the next character. You said 237 people's deputies signed. There were at first more signatures, and then it turned out there were fewer. Well, that's a technical question. The question is, I was trying to ask him now. I managed to negotiate with a large number of co-authors of the bill. And I asked them one question: did they get acquainted with this bill when it was signed with the Constitutional Court's conclusion on Bill 1014, as well as with two decisions of the Constitutional Court, one concerning the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act, and the other concerning the appointment of a corresponding Presidential Decree on the appointment of the head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Director. And none of them have confirmed to me the fact that they are aware of these things. That's why I have this question. Were the signatories consciously faced with empty sheets to sign? Or did they make a conscious decision, realizing that they are signing the appellants unconstitutional in terms of the Constitutional Court??
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u36	Thank you for asking, Ruslan Petrovich. Talking about the unconstitutionality of the amendment bill to the Constitution is not entirely correct in terms of the general perception of what it is about. Secondly, I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has been bound by the legal framework that emerges from the current Constitution of Ukraine, which does not really foresee that the Director of the DBR and the Director of the NAB has the right to appoint the President of Ukraine. And it is in that bill, in that law, that I apologize, both for preventing corruption, and in that law on the State Bureau of Investigations, which adopted the Supreme Council of the previous convening, which also represented you, that the law clearly provides that the special order of appointment for the Director of the NAB and the Director of the DBR are guarantees of their independence. It was in order to ensure maximum independence that the bill was initiated. All the national MPs had the opportunity to read the text of the bill. And for all the national MPs who asked questions, I answered, including with regard to conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u37	Fedienko Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Maslov Denis Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u39	Unfeeling.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u40	Maslov. Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u41	Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u42	Good afternoon. Dear reporter, please tell us that it is quite clear that such anti-corruption bodies, as a guarantee of their effective activities, are independent, including independence, and the order in which they are appointed by those in charge of such authorities and bodies who are called upon to fight corruption. I want to ask you a question. In your opinion, would you please tell us whether the bill has implemented a system of restraints and contradictions so that neither the President nor the Supreme Council can have a decisive impact on the appointment of such officers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. Indeed, this bill, which is now proposed by the distinguished Ukrainian national deputy, provides for the maximum possible balance of powers between the President, who is the guarantor of respect for the rights of human and civil rights, and the Parliament, which is supposed to be the deterrence factor in the appointment of DBR and NABU directors. I mean, that. Mr. Vlasenko, I can't hear you, don't shout. I want to say that it is the appointment of the Director of the DBD and the NAB with the results of the open competition and with Parliament's consent that it should ensure and ensure the maximum independence of these anti-corruption bodies. And for the national MPs of the previous call, I would like to point out that you have had the opportunity to discuss laws against allowing the anti-constitutional things that you are currently yelling about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u44	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u45	Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u46	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u47	Mr. Fedor, congratulations on your collection of 237. I understand that most will now demonstrate that most of them actually exist and will be able to direct this decision to the Constitutional Court. I want to stress that today we are not voting on the substance of the law, and we are actually asking the Constitutional Court to evaluate it. I only have one question to ask you as a representative of the President of the Constitutional Court. Why was the three - month deadline set aside by the Constitutional Court for the preparation of an alternative? And we're not in December, how would we have it, but we're only now coming to this question if it's as important as you just said? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u48	Thank you, Mr. Jurczyn, for your question. I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, examining the constitutionality of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, noted that legislation should be brought into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. And these are exactly two parallel processes. Because the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, under the current Constitution, has made it clear that the President does not have constitutional powers to appoint the head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and this must be done in the system of executive authorities. The relevant bill, as you know, registered with the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the initiative of the government, but this bill has nothing to do with the bill that we are considering today. Once again, this is about a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine to ensure the maximum independence of anti-corruption officials and bodies that fight crime at the highest levels of office. And today's vote in parliament, including the way national MPs from other political powers are ready to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u49	Please don't shout, dear fellows. Thank you. Please sit down, Feder Volodymyrovich. The report invites the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, Andriy Evgenovich Kostin. The schedule is up to 10 minutes for the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u50	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council (since February 22, 2021), reviewed at its meeting the draft Law on Amendments to Articles 85 and 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for appointment and discharge of Director of NABU and DBR) (register No. 5133) (from February 22, 2021). The committee set up the following. The purpose of the amendments proposed by the bill is to establish a special order for appointment and release from office of the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the Director of the National Bureau of Investigation by the President of Ukraine, with the consent of the Supreme Council, which will ensure the maximum independence of the designated State law enforcement authorities, without prejudice to the balance between the constitutional powers of the Head of State and the Parliament of Ukraine. In order to achieve the stated goal, the authors are invited to complete part one of article 85 of the Constitution with new paragraphs 25-1 and 25-2, and part one of article 106 of the Constitution with new paragraphs 11-1 and 11-2 respectively. How about our powers with you, i.e. the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to add an agreement to the appointment of a post on the basis of competitive selection and discharge from office as President of Ukraine, Director of the NABU and Director of the DBD. And until the President of Ukraine has been appointed and relieved of his office under the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Director of the NAB and the Director of the DBD, with the election of candidates for the post on competitive grounds. In accordance with part two of article 145 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the committee concluded, among other things, on the basis of the subject of knowledge. According to article 154 of the Basic Law, the bill submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the appropriate subject of the legislative initiative — 237 national deputies of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill, submitted in accordance with article 154 of the Constitution, does not require the systematic unity of the Constitution to amend chapters I, III and XIII of the Constitution at the same time. The Committee believes that the bill meets the requirements of article 156 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the resubmission of a bill amending Chapters I, III, XIII of the Constitution from the same issue is possible only to the Supreme Council for the next appointment. A preliminary analysis of the bill makes it possible to believe that there are no or similar positions in it, which, in previous conclusions and decisions of the Constitutional Court, were recognized as nullifying or restricting human rights and freedoms, and a citizen or aimed at eliminating independence or violating Ukraine’s territorial integrity. The committee has reason to believe that the provisions of the bill meet the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill will strengthen the actual powers of appointment and discharge of the Director of NABU and the Director of DBR by the President of Ukraine, with the agreement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The members of the committee also took into account the legal positions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine regarding the appointment by the President of Ukraine of the Director of NABU, according to which the Constitution of Ukraine establishes a list of the powers of the Head of State in particular and the powers of appointment of officials of the bodies defined by the Constitution is exhaustive. The members of the committee note that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has already considered the question of the appointment and dismissal of the President of Ukraine, the Director of the NAB and the Director of the DBR. In its conclusion, the Court stated that the analysis of the bill provided grounds for an extension of the powers of the Head of State, which would result in the redistribution of powers between the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers, would therefore result in a balance between the existing constitutional system of deterrence and counter-aggression in the mechanism for the implementation of the Ukrainian government and the granting of functions and powers to the President, which could lead to a gradual and erratic change in the balance of power (this is the end of the quote). The members of the committee noted that it was in the bill under registration number 5133 that, unlike the previous bill, it was not the sole appointment and release of the Director of the NAB and DBR by the President of Ukraine, and that such an appointment and release took place under the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Taking into account article 146 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Legal Policy decided: to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine to the Venezuelan and other (a total of 237 national deputies), the Law on Amendments to Articles 85 and 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for the order of appointment and discharge of the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Office and Director of the National Bureau of Investigation) (registration number 5133) (from February 22, 2021), to include in the order of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Ninth Appeal and to refer to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to its conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Once again, I note that you and I are now making a very important decision to include this bill in the agenda and to refer it to the Constitutional Court. Further work on this bill will take into account the relevant conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u51	Thank you. Please sign up for the interview. It takes up to six minutes: a minute to ask, two minutes to answer. Puzichuk Andri Viktorovich. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u52	Mr. Andriy Evgenovich, in your speech, you have really formally marked the position of the committee, but I would like to point out that for this, you have only voted in an entirely unbiased, completely incorrect way, only part of the deputies who represent one political power, namely, the "Serve of the People" faction. More than that, no one on the legal committee voted. So I have a huge request for you: the next time you report, please really describe the situation on the committee. Tell me that there have been remarks to this bill, including the inadequacy of its article 157 of the Constitution, because there is already a finding by the Constitutional Court on similar issues that it was suggested to send this bill to the relevant legal conclusion of the constitutional law subcommittee, which was actually a discussion. And just because most of our committee is made up of servants of the people, it was just, sorry, stupidly "sold." And I don't have any questions for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u53	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u54	Dear Mr. Head, I have a question and it's similar. Conscious of the Constitutional Court’s decision, representatives of all factions and groups did not support the passing on of this bill to the Constitutional Court. Why, do you think, was a three-month deadline missed in due course when a similar decision could be rectified in the submission of such a bill, taking into account the decision of the Constitutional Court? There were three months, there were voices under it, why wasn't that offered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u55	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich, for your question. I think that this is a question that every national MP can address to himself: why is there just now a bill to make appropriate changes to the Constitution of Ukraine? But we remember that last year was also a year of trials not only for the Ukrainian people but also for the parliament, as was the year the epidemic began and the corresponding processes in Parliament were also redirected to combat the COVID epidemic. But we do not stop at the fulfillment of both President of Ukraine's pre-election promises and the political party's "Serve of the People" programmes, so not 150 Ukrainian national deputies, but 237 Ukrainian people's deputies have submitted an appropriate bill. And he must be supported and sent to the Constitutional Court to conclude that all questions about the constitutionality of this bill should be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, National Deputy of Ukraine Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u57	Please give me the word of Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u58	Prince Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u59	Dear Andriy Evgenovich, I have a question for you in essence, as for an expert, including in the field of constitutional law. Please tell me the reporter first said that this bill corrects the imbalance that the Constitutional Court considered to have been in the previous bill, and it consisted in the scope of the President's dragging the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers. How are these things being adjusted now? How are they being corrected? What authority is given by this bill by the President to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u60	Dear Ruslan Petrovich, this bill does not provide for the transfer of any powers to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and this is clearly defined in the bill itself. This bill is about establishing a balance between the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The same balance that was not sufficient when the Supreme Council adopted the last draft bill, which was appointed by the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. That is what the Constitutional Court had in mind in its decision. And in order to correct this error, there is a bill that is proposed to balance the balance as follows: the President of Ukraine appoints the head of the DBR and the Director of the NAB with the agreement of the Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the discharge of these posts takes place in the same order. In our view, this balance is completely justified, and by voting today in favour of sending this bill to the Constitutional Court, we will be able to draw an appropriate conclusion from the Constitutional Court, which will remove all questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u61	Thank you. Please Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u62	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u63	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u64	Dear Andrew Evgeniovich, in principle, I accept the answer you gave, because I understand the complexity of the situation. I would, frankly, be in that state myself, because in fact the bill is completely different from what the Constitutional Court has decided. But I have a question of the next character. According to the Law on the Rules, the Committee on Legal Policy is a quasi-institutional court, it has some quasi-authority, including a preventive nature, in order to prevent the Constitutional Court from continuing to treat these matters as unconstitutional. We already have actually three decisions of the Constitutional Court. And it is quite obvious that the committee should make such a decision. What do you think if this kind of mistake is allowed by our committee, including the possibility that there is still a point in leaving such authority to it? Since he is consciously depriving himself of these powers, he is abstracted from the situation and gives everything to the ransom of the Constitutional Court. Why, then, are such authorizations in the Rules? Thank you. What's your position?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u65	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich, for asking. First of all, I completely disagree with you that the committee makes mistakes. The issue of drafting this bill is described in more detail both in the Constitution and in the Rules of the Supreme Council. And understanding that the relevant procedure for considering this bill requires the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, I think that the committee, with all due respect for this procedure, has taken full account and made the right decision to include this bill in the agenda of the day session and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Parliament itself, to take the decision to refer this bill to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u66	Thank you, Andrey Evgenovich. Please have a seat. The representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to attend. [[B in m in s a l in]] So let's move on to the speeches from the MP factions and groups. Sign up for the presentation by MPs and groups. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Knazevitch? Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u67	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Head, you were not mistaken when you wanted to give the floor to the President's representative, because we all understand that this is a presidential bill, and there are no secrets. I think that even the President's representative in the Constitutional Court, at the same time, represents a group of MPs who signed the bill, reaffirms this fact. I asked why, in the opinion of the President, did the Head of State himself not dare to submit a bill? I'll tell you. Because he understands very well that such shameful unconstitutional things do not suit him. And he decided to kindly convey this mission to you, dear colleagues, so that you would deliberately take the mission to present unconstitutional things to the apiori. Why do I say that? That's not what I'm saying, as the representative said. This is confirmed by the Constitutional Court. And the essence of the Constitutional Court's conclusion and the two decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning the NABU and the Head of the NABU is very simple. NABU and the DBR by their legal nature are executive authorities, and their leaders are therefore to be appointed a higher body in the system of executive authorities. But it's not the President, my friends, it's the Cabinet of Ministers. We live in a parliamentary-presidential republic, not a presidential republic, as anyone would like. The President is very eager to appoint his "hand" heads of the D.B.I. and the N.A.U.U. He doesn't know how to do it, but somehow he has absolute mistrust in the Cabinet of Ministers. He's afraid that it might happen there, that they're not going to appoint anyone he wants. So he thinks that this right should be left behind, including by consenting to the majority, which the apriors themselves now support, without even considering the substance of the bill. Why hasn't he made up his mind yet? Because when we considered the bill in the final edition, this session hall did not support the proposal to continue working on the bill, because all the speakers from this rostrum, and I deliberately checked the transcript today, everyone unanimously said that this bill could not even be submitted further into the session hall as one that was openly contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. The president didn't give up on this idea anyway, so he decided, you know, they won't let me in the door, I'll go out the window. Friends, if even today there are enough votes, if even the Constitutional Court is forced to change its legal position, in which I personally do not believe, the prospects for its adoption are very vague. I urge you not to vote in favour of unconstitutional things, because then the time will come and, as the present reality shows, there may be a moment when it has to be held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u68	Ruslan Petrovich, can I talk to you for a second? Coward Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u69	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Today, anticorruption agencies are not fully functioning because they are both captives and hostages of underprivileged legislation, which makes it impossible for them to function fully as well as hostages of political interpersonal groups. And that's why anti-corruption agencies cannot effectively implement their dual mission -- the mission of fighting corruption, the corruption that's dragging our country back, the corruption that's becoming a major obstacle to our country's development. So today we need to show that we are ready to move to a new stage in our country's development. One of the indicators of this new phase should actually be the effective fight against corruption. And this is the bill called for the appointment and release of directors of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the State Bureau of Investigation to be clear and transparent, and above all with respect to the principle of restraint and counter-aggression. Because, according to the text of this bill, the President will appoint the directors of the NABU and the DBR after an independent competition, but he will also need Parliament's approval of the decision to appoint or release the directors of the NABU and the DBR. It is this proposal to amend article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine with regard to the granting of additional powers to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and this system of restraints and opponents can be ensured. Today, we agree with the decision of the profile committee. I would like to remind you once again that today we are not voting in favour of the law, but we are merely proposing to include it in the agenda and to refer it to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to obtain a conclusion on the compatibility of the bill in question with the Constitution of Ukraine. The Trust MP will vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u70	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Jurczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u72	Yurchin? Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'd like to correct the head of the profile committee, who said that the Supreme Council did not make its proposals in time. In fact, all the factions have registered their proposals as to how the matter can be corrected. At the same time, are we talking to you today about the substance of the bill that we are considering? No, we're talking about sending him to the Constitutional Court. That is, that the Constitutional Court, according to its constitutional powers, should make these proposals constitutionally or not. Because now that colleagues who have spoken before and after this will be evaluating, they will be evaluating as politicians. So they will speak constitutionally, unconstitutionally, not as the only body that can define it, the Constitutional Court. And here, of course, we can mention the inconsistencies of our colleagues from most of the people who talked about the constitutional crisis, who said that this Constitutional Court could not be trusted. And it seems they don't believe it, because this Constitutional Court has already once assessed the possibility of appointing the President of the Director of the NAB, which took place in a previous summons and was initiated by a previous call, and for some reason, when the colleagues who are now criticizing it have not been tense. But there are 237 national deputies. There is a majority who can, within their constitutional and legal powers, ask the Constitutional Court whether this bill is constitutional or not. And now to create a policy around it, and can they do it? Excuse me, they have their heads on their shoulders. I'd just like to recommend to the majority that I show that 237 is not on paper, but that I give a sufficient number of votes and that I finally get a second assessment of the Constitutional Court. We can predict that it will be denied, because this is really an extension of the President's powers. But if you ever need such a reminder again, once again you need to consult again, you can do so completely without politics, blaming someone for something. So let's, let's vote and just make sure that the Constitution, which was adopted in the year 96, did not foresee the presence of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the State Bureau of Investigation. And so it can actually be both a yes and a no. But this will be after the assessment of the Constitutional Court, which is why it was created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u74	Baby Roman Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u75	Please pass the word to the Monastery Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u76	The Monastery of Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, I agree with the previous speaker that here, first of all, we need to assess the essence of today's move: and today we are sending this bill to the Constitutional Court for actual consideration and, in fact, to determine its constitutionality. I mean, it's the first step, it's the truth. However, I would like to stress the importance of this bill, its essence, what we have, what is the problem with this bill. Not a secret, it is clear to all that the stability of any body is the stability of its legal status. If we don't have a clear legal status, we're going to have a year-to-year or maybe some political period of redefinition of the legal status of a body. Let's remember that this also happened with the State Bureau of Investigation, which is less talked about today in the context of this bill, but it's still one of the issues. About two years ago, the legal status of this body was changed from the central executive authority to an independent law enforcement body. In fact, after the decision of the Constitutional Court, which posed a problem for the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the decision also raised problems with the activities of the DBR. And today we've also heard a recent report from the Director of the DBR, and we've heard that the main issue is that it's impossible to choose the full Director of the State Bureau of Investigation right now, and the competition hasn't started yet. And the Director of the FBI is needed for the stability of the work of the body, and any of these redundancies and the duration of this process only harms the work of the law enforcement authority. This bill therefore deals with the stability of the legal status of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the State Bureau of Investigation, which makes them constitutional bodies with a clearly defined status. The second is, of course, an increase in the role of Parliament. Colleagues, in this case of agreement, Parliament's consent is always an increase in the level of appointment. And the third is competitive principles, which are directly laid down in the Constitution. It is also an important guarantee of the independence and independence of the governing bodies, and of independence, including decisions to remove them from office. Well, to conclude, I would like to point out that, in fact, this disgraceful situation with the competition for the position of Director of the DBD is a sign that it is necessary to adopt the bill without delay, to refer it to the Constitutional Court and, more precisely, to be supported by a joint vote. So, colleagues, please support him, this is an extremely important bill for the entire law enforcement system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u78	Thank you. Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u79	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! Murmich Anatoly Petrovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". What we have today is very bad, and I'd say there's no practical way to fight corruption in the higher echelons of power, that's what we all know. But the reason is not that legislation is perfect or not perfect. The main reason is that there is no political will is first. And the second reason is that the appointed leaders go to these positions by irresponsible and unprofessional people. That's why we're working so hard to fight corruption. The NAB and the DBR were the motive and purpose of their independence, primarily from the Presidential branch of power. Because they've been assigned and they've been thinking about fighting precisely in the power structures, in the highest echelons of power around the President. Next. I want to remind you, and it's not once that we've been told that we have a parliamentary-presidential republic, not the other way around. The President is responsible for the security sector, and the Cabinet of Ministers is responsible for the executive branch of power. Next. Today, this bill is being proposed. The same procedure is proposed as that of the Head of the Security Service. But to date, we know that the Security Service is in charge of combating corruption and organized crime. Tell me, who is preventing the President, the Head of the Security Service, from fighting corruption? Who's in the way? We also propose that this law be done. What, then, is the gain in the reform of the Security Service? On the contrary, we wanted to make this body to fight corruption independent. Then why do all of this, you have to turn everything around and just want to fight corruption. We believe that, of course, the NAB and DBD Act needs to be improved. Why? Because they really need to become independent, but not from the country of Ukraine, they need to become independent of the influence of the foreign. They need to be improved, they need to be accelerated, these competitive procedures that we need to conduct with you, and we need to assign the leaders to Kabmin, but not to the President in any way, because we are going to disrupt the balance of forces in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u80	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Dmitri Lubinci.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u82	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u83	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will vote for this decision today. But I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies to the fact that we are not voting for a bill that from the rostrum is being discussed so fiercely. We vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda and the referral to the Constitutional Court to obtain a conclusion (dot). We don't see any problems why we don't have to vote for that. I think that Parliament should vote and, by a majority, refer to the Constitutional Court. But with regard to the bill itself, I thank colleagues who signed such a large number under the legislative initiative that they have listened, including to the advice of the National Deputies of the "For the Future" Group. Because when the bill was already before Parliament, the changes to the Constitution were precisely about the appointment of the President of the Head of the NABU and the President of the appointment of the Head of the DBR, we stressed at that time that the Constitutional Court found this unconstitutional. Because under the terms of the parliamentary-presidential republic, we were just paying attention, take as an analogy the appointment of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service and the Attorney-General when the President proposes, but it is Parliament that agrees to appoint these candidates. So in the end, mind and experience won, the Constitutional Court concluded that the previous edition was unconstitutional and you finally passed the bill that we insisted on. Therefore, we thank the people’s deputies for listening to our counsel. We await the Constitutional Court's conclusion, if it is positive, we will re-examine and vote that the appointment procedure for the Head of the NAB and the appointment procedure for the Head of the DBD was prescribed as in the Constitution was legal. And I'll remind the national deputies that we've heard the head of the acting D.B.I. And we've been paying a lot of attention, and we want a year from now the full director of the D.B.I. to stand in front of us and report to us. So we do, change legislation and improve anti-corruption legislation and anti-corruption fighting in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u84	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! The bill in question has nothing to do with the fight against corruption -- it's the first and the key, and it doesn't have to be manipulated. It's not about that, it's a bill for control, it's for the D.B.I. to lead a hundred percent of "your boy" to lead the N.A.U.U.A. on a hundred percent "your girlfriend" or vice versa and so on. There's nothing else this bill's talking about. The colleagues here say, let's send him to the Constitutional Court, but that's just to send him to the Constitutional Court. In principle, the Constitutional Court has already assessed this bill. I have in my hands the decision of the Constitutional Court and the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. I quote the decision of the Constitutional Court. "The Constitutional Court notes that the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine as an organ of law is in fact an executive body." What are you talking about? It's an executive body that has nothing to do with the President. I have in my hands the findings of the Constitutional Court since December 16, 2019. I quote: "The Constitutional Court emphasises that the indirect subordination of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the National Bureau of Inquiry of the President of Ukraine, through the appointment and release of managers, will pose a threat to the independence of these organs, will lead to the concentration of executive power in the President, his competition with the executive authorities." This is what the Constitutional Court has already said. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court notes that such changes regarding the appointment of the Director of the DBR and the NAB by the President extend the President's competence by granting him ineligible powers. Please tell me, at what point did these powers suddenly become the President's? It is also contrary to the fundamental positions of the Constitution of Ukraine. Please tell me, at what point did these positions not conflict with the fundamental position of the Constitution? Once again, this bill has nothing to do with the fight against corruption. It's a law enforcement bill. This is a bill on the possibility of appointing and releasing the directors of the NAB and the DBR. We are reminded that it is a fine procedure for appointing the head of the Security Service. We have this procedure, and what? We have the Attorney General appointed and what? Once again, this is not about any balance, it's about trying to interfere with the power of the executive branch. What the Constitutional Court has repeatedly pointed out and then to send the bill back to the Constitutional Court is inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, back to the last question of the speeches. Sergei Volodymyrovich, including you. The representative of the President or the President in accordance with 146 articles of paragraph 2 shall have the right to speak at a meeting of the Supreme Council during the examination of the referral to the Constitutional Court of the bill. If there are none, we move on to the next stage of this bill. It's now scheduled for up to nine minutes for the national MPs. After that, the closing word is Venislavski and the closing word is Kostin, for 3 minutes. Please sign up for the presentations by the Ukrainian national deputies. Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich. Haircut?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u87	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u88	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u89	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the adoption of this bill very much reminds me of the adoption of the famous bill 1008, which is the bill on the judiciary and the status of judges. We were told here, too, that we have the rule of law, we see the world that way, we're different from you, we understand everything here without you. We then warned from this rostrum that, in fact, the Constitutional Court found that bill unconstitutional. That's what happened. Unfortunately, the situation is exactly the same. It is clear that the proposed changes to the Constitution have already been assessed by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has acknowledged that the President cannot assume the powers associated with the executive branch. This has nothing to do with the fight against corruption or the desire to build or build a parliamentary-presidential state. It's about someone wanting to "screw" Mr. President and bring him a plate of blue chaims, an additional mandate that the President is not entitled to. The President, look, the President, when he passed a similar bill, when the Constitutional Court reached a negative conclusion, the President did not transpose the bill, realizing that in this way it would be very much like wanting to assume powers that are incompetent to you. And then people were found, some of them even signed a bill twice to amend the Constitution. That's what they wanted, poor people, to kiss the President for the first time, and for the second time, they wanted to kiss again, but it didn't work. So once again, this bill has nothing to do with fighting corruption, absolutely. This law on the control of the law enforcement system. This bill on the ability of the President, in an unconstitutional, illegal, illegal way, to influence the appointment of directors of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the State Bureau of Investigation, which, according to the position of the Constitutional Court, are the executive authorities. We don't have to talk about balances here. You can't take off a piece of executive branch authority and then say, "We're doing balances here on someone else's authority." The balance is that the executive branch of power is in the executive branch, the legislative branch is in the legislative branch, and the court is in the judicial branch. The Ukrainian Security Service, which was listed here, by the way, and the Attorney General's Office, they don't refer to the executive branch of power. And that's why there is a balance in the presentation of the President and the appointment of the Supreme Council, and that's the same thing as liberation. But there is no need to resort to unconstitutional action. As the Council of National Security and Defence says: for this, for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u90	Thank you. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u91	Dear Mr. Head, please pass the word to Gregory Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u92	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, in order to vote, it is necessary to read laws and bills, and to express our thoughts correctly. This bill, first of all, has nothing to do with fighting corruption, fighting corruption. Indeed, it is the correction of those decisions of the Constitutional Court and, in fact, the renewal and legalization of the old mechanisms of transfer concerning the appointment of not one more, but two leaders, together with the Head of the NAB and the Head of the State Bureau of Investigation. I've heard calls from the rostrum that this law is regulating something. Well, the key question is "something" is normal. If there's no D.B.I., there's no manager, then I want to open maps that the commission isn't created because the internationals have not put their experts on the board. And without the commission, without the competition, the President's mandate will be to appoint or not, the leader will not be. On the issue of standardization, and making a reference, and making changes to the Constitution, and referring to the President's mandate. I want to point out that it is still necessary for the drafters of the bill to examine earlier decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which he clearly stated in his rulings, that, apart from having no mandate to appoint the director of the NABU, it is also not possible to allow this to happen because the balance is lost. Someone said from this rostrum that someone from the National Deputies said that the criteria of independence of the leader and of the law enforcement body itself, which has specific powers, are the appointment of the President, that will be independence. I want to disappoint you that aside from the NABU, more than a dozen law enforcement agencies, special status bodies are engaged in the fight against corruption. If you compare, for example, by analogy, the body that is part of the anti-corruption system or corruption system, the National Anti-Corruption Agency, somehow the director is assigned to the Cabinet of Ministers. So this is lost independence? At this point in Parliament, I want to draw attention to more than 10 bills for the harmonization of the Constitutional Court's ruling. It is necessary to look at them on committees, correct them, and not from what they should do, but from the decision of the Constitutional Court to balance them, to bring them in law, then it will be true. We will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u94	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u95	Good afternoon, fellow citizens of Ukraine! You can see today that real attempt aimed at the work of the Constitutional Court. Who doesn't know that in the 19th year of the same question, I repeat, from a similar point of view, the Constitutional Court took a decision and said, "Do not push" the Constitution, the periphery of the President's powers is defined solely by the Constitution of Article 106. What's not clear? On the same issues, of the same D.B., of the same N.B.I. and everything else. Why? But you know that today it's the actions of the Bank's, the actions of the power-held forces that have paralysed the work of the Constitutional Guard, which is the Constitutional Court. That is what the Commission, the European Commission of the Rule of Law, called the question of who the Constitutional Court is. That's the first one. And the second. The balance here was that 136 people's deputies were signed, which means they should be sent. You can send everything and you can get the votes. The question is the point, the point is the President's mandate. I'd like to understand. And the main thing is that it's about making changes to the Constitution. Why do we consider the Constitution to be the kind of clumps a dog can rip off at a favorite angle? Is that allowed? Look at the same. In two years, we have asked so many questions about making changes to the Constitution. And the third. I would also like to point out that the subject of this legislature is not the President, so to speak. The President has already walked with this question, and the Constitutional Court has replied to him that, Mr. Head of State, you will act in accordance with the Constitution, you will not be allowed to do so. But we see that there's an initiative here from the national MPs, that's their right. At the same time, I would not want the question of usurping power in our country, in one hand, in our country, which is a parliamentary republic, to be put on the altar. Parliamentary – once again I say – is not parliamentary-presidential. We are the Parliamentary Republic. Why, then, is it possible to abuse the will of parliamentarians who represent the interests of citizens? That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u96	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Talk to me. For the final word, one of the initiators of the proposals is the National Deputy of Ukraine Fedir Volodymyrovich Venislavski. It's gonna be 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u97	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! Today we have heard many speculations, manipulations from our fellow Members of Parliament, who are currently in opposition. I would like to remind the country’s distinguished national deputies that many of those who today were passionate about the unconstitutionality of those or other provisions of the Law amending the Constitution, which in itself is absurd, voted in 2014 and 2015 for the Law which. Mr. Vlasenko, you personally voted in favour of the State Bureau of Investigation Act. Read the transcript. I just looked. And there were clearly unconstitutional things. In this case, colleagues, I want to say that we are voting with you in favour of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine and we propose to refer it to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The constitutionality bill on amending the Constitution of Ukraine cannot be assessed by manipulating the Constitutional Court of Ukraine's conclusion on an entirely different bill, which provides for a completely different procedure for the appointment of DBR directors, NABU. That's the first one. The other one. There is no need to manipulate and call for a variety of insinuations on the bill to ensure maximum balance between the powers of the Supreme Council and the President in the procedure for the appointment of heads of bodies that ensure the fight against corruption and crime in the higher echelons of power. It is in order to highlight the parliamentary-presidential form of government, Mr. Nimchenko, rather than the parliamentary one, that this bill provides for Parliament's consent to be appointed President of the DBR and NABU Directors. To date, no one has doubted the independence of the Attorney General, the independence of the Ukrainian Security Service, who have a similar way of appointing the officers of these organs. In order to demonstrate the willingness of the Ukrainian people to fight corruption, we initiated this bill. And I'm convinced that today is the factor, the lacumus paper that will really demonstrate, whether in words or in action, the representatives of the political forces are ready to fight corruption. To conclude, this bill on the maximum independence of the directors of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the State Bureau of Investigation. I'm sure this bill will allow us to raise the status of the State Bureau of Investigation to the status of the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation, where there will be no questions about the effectiveness of this body, as well as the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u98	Kostin Andriy Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, this bill about our shared responsibility with you, the responsibility for fighting corruption, the responsibility of the leaders of these bodies, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the State Bureau of Investigation, to exercise the trust of society. It's because the bill foresees that these leaders will be chosen for the results of a transparent and open competition, and it's because we, as a parliament, play a key role both in the appointment and in the release of these checkers, and it's our responsibility. I'm asking everyone to join the drafters of this bill in the political party "The Servant of the People," which signed this bill, to join us as parliament in taking responsibility for the fight against corruption. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u100	Haircut, a lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u101	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, as many amendments as I made in voting for the NABA bill and for the DBR, I don't think the reporter has survived that many years. Therefore, just as we fought for this law to be in line with the Constitution, perhaps the honourable lord of the account did not fight in his teaching work at any time. That's the first one. But second, about manipulations. There's absolutely no need to manipulate it, this law has nothing to do with the fight against corruption. Once again, before the Supreme Council's position on the possibility of appointing the Head of DBR and NABU, yes, this could be the mandate of the Supreme Council. But the simple question is, what does the President want with the fight against corruption? We are actually distracted by the fact that corruption in the country is rising, and no one is fighting corruption. And now we're being asked in an unconstitutional way to change something again to say, look, now, two years after the presidency of Vladimir Zelensky, we're going to start fighting corruption. This has nothing to do with the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I remind you that when you mention your colleagues, they have the right to a replica, Fedir Volodymyrovich. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell the reporter that the question is, what is the Republic? --this is Ukrainian know-how, more loyal, Ukrainian scientists. There aren't a little pregnant or pregnant. Is there a question-- parliamentary or presidential? Read the theory, the world theory. That's the first one. And second of all, there's not going through, like, "not Stanislavsky, but Venezuelan," and I don't think it's going through here, there's no question of fighting corruption at all. And don't blink your eyes! Don't blink your eyes! You can see perfectly what's behind this. And I, Mr. Reporter, would like to say again and, by the way, I also want to say the verdicts, I need to see who such a reporter is, is there a conflict of interest, is there a conflict of interest in Mr. Venislavsky's actions? Because he's a national deputy and he represents the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Ready? In accordance with article 146 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, I am voting for the adoption of the entire draft Decree (registration number 5133-p) on the inclusion in the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth call of a bill amending article 85 and 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine (as regards the appointment and discharge of the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation) and its referral to the Constitutional Court. Ready to vote? I'm reminding you of the sensor button. Does Everyone Remember? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:56:52]] For 267 Decision taken. Thank you. Show the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 225, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "The Future Party" – 12, "The Voice" – 8, "The Trust" – 18, "the Non-Factional" – 4. Dear colleagues, two minutes to go. I don't think there's any point in asking right now. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. The sitting was authorized, it was started, it was a vote. There are 343 Ukrainian national deputies standing in the room right now, or they will come in. Dear colleagues, this is a small bill. Dear colleagues, please come to the office. Are you going to be in all your classes? Coltunovich. I see Julia Volodymyrna. I can't hear you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u106	Your Honour, Mr. Head! I have a proposal, really, that my colleagues would suggest that we go, start on the table, and I support this proposal from my colleagues from Fatherland that let's go over the table. Because, for example, our revisions start with the 32nd, and then my colleagues, and that's what they're going to do, so we can just keep going on the board.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u107	Would you please tell me how many licenses you're going to insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u108	Dear Mr. Head, look, I've made special preparations for your question: 896 amendments from colleagues, from factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u109	Not much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u110	Let's go. I'm 92 myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u111	Thank you for your constructive cooperation. I hope it was. Can I have representatives of the MP factions and groups in the rostrum for a moment? Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich, please come. All the factions and groups, management, please come here for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the bottom of this. You have been invited to consider a draft Law amending the Land Code and other legislative acts to improve the management and deregulation of land relations. — Registration No. 2194. The chairman of the Committee on Agricultural and Land Policy, Solski Mikola Tarasovic, is invited to the rostrum. Amendment number one. Puzichuk. Don't insist. Are you insisting? Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u112	I insist. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please, I have 1 and 2 amendments, two minutes for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u113	You're going to insist on everyone's rights, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u114	All of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u115	Well, then, in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u116	Okay. Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, this bill is from a package of so-called land reform that opens up the agricultural land market. I recall that the first law of a year ago was adopted in a totally disgraceful way -- at night during quarantine, to prevent Ukrainian agrarians from being allowed into Parliament who opposed and continue to oppose. After the adoption of this law, Fatherland initiated the submission to the Constitutional Court of recognition of it as unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court has discovered constitutional conduct at our disposal. And I think it will give this reform a proper assessment. The earth is an object of property rights of the Ukrainian people. This is the norm of the Constitution. It's a national wealth that can't be sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u117	I'm betting on the vote number one of the Puzichuk People's Deputies. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:24]] For-65
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u118	The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 2. People's MP Puziyczuk, do you insist? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u119	Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear citizens, what's going on now? The authorities are well aware that the matter is under consideration by the Constitutional Court, but cynically this ignores and pushes forward a project to sell the land. This project introduces mechanisms for alienating agricultural land. Environmental control is weakening. So the next threat is soil depletion and nudity. Dear colleagues, let's still remember who we are and who chose us. On one occasion you heard "The Fatherland" and took no sin and did not support the bill, sent for a second reading. It's the same thing in this bill. So I insist on my amendment and ask you not to support this shameful bill on the sale of Ukrainian land. Do not be a part of the crime or be ashamed of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u120	A vote is taken on amendment No. 2 of the Puzijczuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:00]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 12, national deputy Shkrum. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Next amendment 13, national deputy of Labunsk. Don't insist. Next amendment 14, Labunsk. She's gone. Next 15, Timoshenko Julia. Timishenko Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u121	Dear friends, I am now addressing everyone who hears and sees the broadcast of the Supreme Council. Now the Supreme Council has begun its second phase, which is dedicated to the mindless, mindless, anti - Ukrainian system of selling agricultural land. The first law, you remember, was voted in quarantine in the presence of the President at night. And the law that the sale of land was then voted on included the possession by foreign banks of our agricultural land. Now this bill is in the Constitutional Court. The second stage of the disgraceful exhibition is now being opened in the Supreme Council, when our land is virtually torn away from the Ukrainians. I've got 70 rights, I'm going to talk to some part of this bill for every revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u122	The 15th Amendment of National MP Timoshenko is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:44:53]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 16. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, you know, we're living in an era of change, and it's impossible to become a successful country if there's no strategic vision. This law, which is now proposed, is a continuation of the sale of Ukrainian land without strategic vision. This law does not have farmers because they do not have access to credit. No government funds are promised, especially to small farmers, so that they are competitive and able to buy land. Today, there is no support in this law for the purchase of land by family farmers. There isn't! Although that was promised. The promises were huge investments. Instead, I say that investment in agriculture has fallen by 40 percent because farmers have begun to put money on the market. That's why this law, colleagues. They stopped investing in livestock, started cutting cattle. They're preparing for the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u124	A vote is taken on amendment No. 16 of the national MP Ivchenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:46:23]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 17. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u125	Farmers have stopped, colleagues, investing in the development of their own production today. Colleagues, farmers today have stopped investing in livestock, and cattle are being cut out today. Milk comes from across the border. Fellow farmers have stopped investing in organic farming precisely in expanding their production capacity. Today, they keep funds to buy their pies and have the opportunity to save their business. Those farmers who now have the land in constant use and for centuries this land has been in their possession since the 91st year, today they're not allowed to own this land. And they're telling them to pay for it. Colleagues, this market, and the sale of Ukrainian land have nothing to do with the European experience of agricultural land. That's why Fatherland won't vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u126	A vote is taken on the amendment of the 17th National MP, Yvchenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:47:51]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 18. People's Deputy Kirilenko. Don't insist. Oh, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! Kirilenko, the Fatherland faction. The great tragedy and drama of the adoption of this law and others is that the chariot is in front of the horse. And that's why. The earth has a dual nature. First of all, it's a resource. And second of all, these are relationships. Of course, the primary is the resource, not the relationship, they're secondary. You persist in making better use of relationships, or business, and completely ignore the fate of the earth as a resource. And this resource screams for salvation. A few years ago, scientists estimated that 8 million acres [8 million ha] should be removed from active circulation, that is, from processing, from business. This is 1 in every 4 hectares of salt, acidification, erosion, degradation. This calls for a powerful government program to protect land in vast areas at the same time. The market you're offering is absolutely protecting this perspective. You live one day. That's why we're offering a fundamental approach: more land in state and municipal property, and even more so is renting. The community wins. The state wins.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u128	Amendment No. 18 of the People’s Deputies of Kirilenko is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:49:30.]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 20. National MP Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u129	Thank you, Mr. Head. I will insist on all my amendments, and then I ask you to give me your word. First, Fatherland speaks of one thing, Fatherland says that the Ukrainian farmer must be the absolute priority of land reform, not the banditry that is now taking place, but the real land reform. And our goal is to form a middle- and small-scale farmer who can provide Ukraine with the right agricultural products. In doing so, we are in favour of remaining the State's influence in the area of control of the situation, part of the monitoring capabilities of the land, not only of agricultural lands, but also of especially valuable lands. With the same bill, the Supreme Council throws out. All the controls of the Supreme Council on these processes are being cleaned up. It is about restoring control by the State that is particularly important, especially valuable.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u130	Amendment 20 of the Vlasenka People's Deputy shall be put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:50:55]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. The following amendment 24. National MP Kovalov. Don't insist. Next amendment. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Next amendment 26. National MP Grishenko. Kovalov insists, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u131	You know. Kovalov Alexei, National Deputy, 186th District, Hersonian. I'll tell you like a professional landowner, the envelope of the law is very interesting, correct, but the filling is wrong. In fact, the peasants are being secured because they can't, I repeat, they won't be able to sell their land. I voted in favour of land reform, but now this law changes quite a bit of land reform and I will abstain from voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u132	You insist on this amendment to vote, right? The 24th amendment of the Kovalova People’s Deputy is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:09]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 26. Grishenko. Don't insist. Next 27. People's deputy Schol. Don't insist. Next 30. The Chorodov People's Deputy. Don't insist. Next 31. Torchty. Don't insist. Next 33. A carpenter. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thirty-two counts, I'm sorry. 32nd count. We're putting confirmation in the end, my friends. 33. Stolar, please. Don't insist. The next amendment is 34. I'm sorry. Don't insist. Next 37. Lukashev. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Lukasheva's not in the hall, is she? Pauline, please be co-author, please 37th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u133	I would like to remind you that according to the Constitution, the earth is the basic national wealth under the special protection of the State. Regrettably, the bill proposes to abolish the requirement for the purpose of the use of agricultural land. Also cancel the ban on the transfer of such land to foreign property, exclude the notion of "specially valuable land". I also draw the attention of colleagues to the numerous observations by both the scientific and expert and the legal authorities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which speak of the need for substantive drafting of the bill. My amendments, as well as the amendments of my colleagues to the Opposition Platform for Life, are aimed at protecting the right of Ukrainian citizens to manage their land and not to allow it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u134	An amendment to the 27th National Deputies of Lukasheva, Pavlovka, is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:54:43]] For-69 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 38. National Deputy Volosin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u135	Colleagues, I remember a year ago from this rostrum, when I was going through this absolutely shameful Law on Land Reform, I was saying that most of you are all worried and afraid that you're going to vote for it in spite of the mood of society, and the IMF is not going to give all the credit. And that's exactly what happened: you've all been dumped. Where are the 10 billion that you were promised? After that, a number of conditions were added. The banking law was passed – it was abandoned again. There is now a need for judicial reform, not to touch the Tiny, anything else. So how long will you allow yourself to be green buttons not even Green, but IMF? Change your color to blue and stick an IMF flag to yourself, and then say, "We're an IMF service party," and that'll be fair. But what I'm going to think about is how you're going to look at your face in the mirror after that. This is the most disgraceful thing that is happening in the hall today. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u136	The vote is amended by 38 national deputies Volosin and Slavicsky. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:02]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 42, National Deputy Timoshenko. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, I remember very well how this room voted "harkov contracts," which was a hand fight, how our faction fought to ensure that no button was pressed for this national betrayal. Look how many years have passed, but responsibility will find its heroes. And for these "harkov contracts," it's likely that many will be responsible for the Criminal Code. Now there's a tragedy of the same magnitude, when the total mass in this room of the ignorant and the people for whom Ukraine is worthless is now giving up the Ukrainian land completely, without any warning, in the most marauder form that can only be invented. And that's not going to happen in the summer either. Sooner or later, anyone who pushes this button to sell agricultural land in the hall will have to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u138	There is 42 amendments to the vote of National MP Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:57:35]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 43. People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u139	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I insist on this amendment because it is precisely the definition of "strategically important land" for Ukraine and Ukrainians that we believe it should be in the Earth Code. And whoever doesn't understand this, I ask you to pay attention to the main security document, the National Security Strategy. We've confirmed it with you. And the leader of our faction, Yulia Timoshenko, points out that this is not done during the war, this is not done during the pandemic, this is not done when the main is not secured – the issue of settling strategically important land to protect the border, to solve security issues, to build infrastructure, to secure communication and so on and so forth. So I insist on this amendment, taking it into account. And the main thing is to stop the senseless, unthinkable waste of land.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u140	There is 43 amendments to the House of Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:59:01]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 48. National MP Nikolaynko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u141	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. I insist on this amendment because, as my speaking colleagues have already pointed out, we have to understand that part of the norms that. This law has become somewhat better, but it is very, very far away from the interests of the Ukrainian people. And so, out of the interests of both farmers and the interests of national security and defence, as my colleague, Mr. Lattweichenko, has just said, this bill cannot be adopted today. And I think we should hope that common sense will win and there will be no 226 people who will take responsibility for further dispossessing of Ukrainian lands. So I'm asking you to support the draft and not support the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u142	The vote is voted on by the 48th Amendment of the National MP of Nikolaynka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify yourself and vote. [[13:00:16]] For-74. The decision is not taken. The following amendment 51. National Deputy Bondarev. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, 55th and 56th go after 51, if you don't mind. These are the laws of mathematics. 51st. Bondarev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u143	Constantine Bondarev, "The Fatherland" faction. The first step in today’s power of surrender, the sale of the interests of the Ukrainian people is already under way, is a second step. We are now invited to adopt a law that makes it clear that especially valuable land can be dug up and disposed of by garbage dumps or sand from careers, or something else. Ukrainian land is a particularly valuable land. The Germans exported during World War II. This may happen again now, but it's not during the war anymore, it's for the money. Today's government, it plans not only to sell land, but then to the Ukrainian people. And one minister said that they needed to leave for Poland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u144	There are 51 amendments to the vote of the national MP, Bondarev. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify yourself and vote. [[13:01:56]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The following amendment 54. The Royal People's Deputies. None. Then, Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u145	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! "The opposition platform for life" consistently advocates the right of Ukrainians to own and manage their land. With regard to the bill, unfortunately, a large part of the legislation does not contain completed legal mechanisms, does not comply with valid legislation, and does not conflict with the Constitution. In particular, the bill provides for the possibility of transferring a foreign legal person to land use. The Referendum Act has already been passed. Where is the referendum on the right of Ukrainians to land? Where is the referendum for Ukrainians to express their view of the Ukrainian land? Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an amendment to the 54th National Deputies of the Royal and Pauline. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:27]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 55. Germano Vasil Ivanovich. You see, your amendment is here. Shufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u147	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, we are back in a long history. For what? To steal Ukrainian land. In this case, language is meant to deprive Ukrainians of the most expensive land they have, namely agrarian land. Find the opportunity to sell them by changing their actual usage. I have a question specific to the honourable chairman of the committee. Tell me, please, there is a motion today before the Constitutional Court, which you systematically, because of this submission, destroy as a power. But I have a professional question for you. What is wrong with the proper standard of the Code of Earth? Why are you pushing and pushing like you said??
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u148	The 55th Amendment of the German People’s Deputy is put to the vote. Committee position, please. I passed on the position of the committee to tell you clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u149	Nestor Ivanovich, with all due respect, I didn't understand what standard the committee didn't set. If you can specify, then I'll tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 55th Amendment of the German and Shufric People’s Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:20]] For-65 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 56. Germany again, Shufrich. Who's it gonna be? Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u151	Thank you. I'd like to address the honourable head of the committee. Appropriately, it is article 8 of the Codex earth. And if you reject the amendment, you need to know exactly why you reject it and what it refers to. That's why I don't understand what you're saying. With regard to our principled question, I would like to point out once again that there is little that you have lied to people about holding a referendum. Next. Now it's an appropriate statement of non-constitutional recognition of the law that was passed at night during the pandemic during quarantine. And instead of waiting for a decision by the Constitutional Court, you're continuing to pass a law that actually deprives Ukraine of its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u152	There is 56 amendments to the vote of the German and Shufric national deputies. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:54]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 57. Kovalov, please. You won't, will you? Don't you insist? You will, yes? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u153	I would like to point out that this bill, when it comes to professional discussion, is a norm, more specifically a law that prohibits the giving of land to third parties. I would like to point out that this is contrary to the Constitution and the Civil Code. So if perhaps it is for the head of the committee to explain exactly what the question is. And is the standard of the Constitution and the Civil Code in conflict? Because we limit the right of individuals to acquire land. For example, if there is a grandmother who has no relatives, what can she do with this land, she cannot give it to another person? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u154	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u155	The position of the committee is quite simple. If Grandma has no one to give, she sells this land. This is the first moment. One second. Giving not to relatives of the first, second, third queue, it's 99, but in 100 cases, I think, it's about circumvention of the tenant's dominant right and others who have the right to the land. Because all committees and all associations have been able to maintain this standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u156	Thank you. There is 57 amendments to the vote of the People’s Deputy Kovalova. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:08:41]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 58. Black lobsters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u157	Dear Chairman, thank you. Dear colleagues, we are looking at this bill in the second place. And I would like to point out that this is the only law and the legal way to transfer land to communities. There was a lot of talk in this room about people belonging to land, Ukrainian land to the Ukrainian people. This is the law that will pass the land to the Ukrainian communities and allow them to be brought into public property and to manage it on their own. And it also destroys the power of the geocadastra, which is also mentioned by the very many President and by the Authorized Roman Lechchenko. The cadastre will completely lose its ability to distribute land. The whole country will belong to the communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u158	Don't you insist on this amendment? And we're moving on. The next amendment is 59. Torchty. Don't insist. Next, the next amendment is 60. I'm going. Don't insist. Next amendment, Krulco, 61st. Don't insist. Spinov, 62nd. Don't insist. Pavlovsky, 63rd. Don't insist. Jacik, 64th. Don't insist. Kabachenko, 65th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u159	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, today we are considering with you the so-called second bill of so-called land reform. In fact, it's very difficult to call it land reform because the vast majority of Ukrainians, more than 70 percent, have expressed themselves against this reform. That is why its violent introduction is particularly damaging to the interests of the Ukrainians. When you and I were considering the first draft, he was looking at a violation of the Rules, he was looking at a direct and established conflict of interest. And the first thing we want to do is to go into this bill so that we don't at least violate the Rules and follow absolutely all the rules that are laid down in it. My license 65 is purely technical, it is absolutely logical, and it refers to a clear definition, a legal definition, and the actual powers of district councils. I'm asking her to support her, she's absolutely fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u160	I'm betting on a vote of 65 Kabachenko's amendment. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:38]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 66. Hairline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u161	We continue the topic of the International Monetary Fund. Anyone who is familiar with the history of negotiations understands that if one side constantly meets the requirements of the other side, the more the side that is potentially and objectively stronger, the strong side will always make additional demands. And this is what happens in negotiations with the International Monetary Fund and Ukraine. Since we are constantly given carrots, they realize that they do not want to give much, so they will increase the price of carrots each time. In these circumstances, it is not the law that should be extended to the queue, but it is simply essential for this powerless government to try to live at least a year without being credited by the International Monetary Fund. And this will automatically reduce the requirements of the International Monetary Fund for receiving the next loan, if necessary. And to do that, you just have to stop stealing. To that end, peace in the east needs to be restored. And to do that, we need to start lending negotiations with other countries, like China, and not argue with them through.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u162	Thank you. A vote is taken on amendment 66 of the People's Deputy of Volosin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:13:09]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 67. Fries. Don't insist. The next amendment is 68. Coltunovich Alexandre Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u163	Thank you. The presiding officer, first of all, I want to respond, one of the deputies seems to be from the Mikolai region, from "The Servant of the People," said that it was the land that would leave the citizens of Ukraine. I don't think so. Because there's a rule in the bill that has a specific formulation. I quote, "It is anticipated that foreign legal persons will acquire land for agricultural purposes." That is why this bill is being considered in a second reading today. That is why he did not have a second reading in his day. That's why the president's position in the 2178-10 vote on the elimination of the foreign rule on reducing the concentration of agricultural land in one hand, that's why this position is important. And a number of other derivatives: about the change of purpose, about the many other points that are in this bill that are unacceptable to us. But it's not even that important. Well, time's up. I'll make it up to you in the next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u164	Yes. Sure. Dear colleagues, there are 68 amendments to the vote of the national MP, Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:14:47]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 69. National MP Shufrich, Kiva. Who's Shufrich or Kiva? Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u165	Thank you. Honorable Chairman, Honourable Head of the Committee! You know, I understand that it's very difficult to stretch these laws. Not everyone may be watching Council meetings, but everyone is watching news and news channels at night. And especially cynically destroy freedom of speech so that what is now happening in the Supreme Council cannot be brought to people. What are you doing? Journalists, by actually closing their mouths, are deprived of their professional constitutional right to provide information and to provide information on what is happening, including in the Supreme Council, when you are actually trying to steal Ukrainian land right now. That is why we insist that any legislative initiatives to intervene in land relations should be halted before we are brought before the Constitutional Court. And as for the amendment, we insist that the revision remain in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u166	Thank you. I'm betting on the 69th Amendment of People's Deputy Shufrich, Kiwi. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:22]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 70. National Deputy Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to emphasize once again that neither the Agricultural Land Circus Act nor the bill currently under consideration is really a so-called land reform. This has nothing to do with land reform, it has to do with robbing Ukrainian citizens, and destroying remnants of Ukrainian farming. "Paternality" would support the State's view on this issue, which would ensure the existence and functioning of a small and medium-sized farmer in Ukraine. Regrettably, the bill also destroys the State’s influence on various things, including issues related to the use of especially valuable land, both state and municipal property. This amendment tells us that a number of issues related to the change of purpose must be resolved at the district level by district councils in order to provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u168	There is 70 amendments to the vote of the People’s Deputy Vlasenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:17:53]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 71, Yatzik. Don't insist. You won't insist on your own.? No, it's not. Thank you. Next amendment 73. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u169	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I would like to ask our television viewers who are watching us now, the voters of our citizens and of all Ukrainians, that this is a living example today, that's why President Zelensky is imposing sanctions against illegal, unconstitutional, independent information channels, in order for him and his government to steal Ukrainian agricultural lands. That's why sanctions are imposed against opposition deputies, so they don't insist on amendments, so that things like this don't happen, so that they don't come forward and say their own thing. And to my fellow MPs, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the body of the law, the rule is that the introduction of a possible lease into a land plot by a user without notice and agreement with the owner of the land. The bill also proposes to abolish the requirement for targeted use of agricultural land, including the prohibition of the transfer of such land to foreigners. And I can't help but notice what's meant to rule out the notion of "especially valuable land."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u170	The vote is amended by 73rd People's Deputy Koltunović and Zagradni. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:19:27]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next up is Katchura, 74th. Don't insist. Germany, 75th. Germany, Shufrich, who's it going to be? Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u171	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the complete disregard of the appeals of many Ukrainian national deputies from different factions to their position and the corresponding reaction of the head of the committee. If he's quiet, why don't you put him down? Next question. The position of head of the agrarian committee on the proposed changes to article 9 of the Codex earth would be of great interest. We believe that the current text of the Earth Code is relevant today and that there is no need to change it. Please state your case on the committee's part, with all due respect to the chairman, who's putting the matter to the vote right now. People's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u172	Nestor Ivanovich, since you mentioned me, I just want to remind you that according to such a book as the Rules, the rapporteur will report the exclusive position of the committee. And the position of the committee is to reject. But I'll give you my word if he has more. And he will make clear to you all these positions, reasoning, approach, logic, and hereditaryities. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u173	Nestor Ivanovich, articles 8 and 9, is the authority of district councils, Kiev and Sevastopol city councils. The principles of decentralization that are reflected in this law are the redistribution of powers for the benefit of local communities, namely OTG. That's why the committee's position is to reject these changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u174	I'm betting on a vote of 75 amendments to the German and Shufric People's Deputies. The committee proposes to reject, on the basis of reasons, so please identify and vote. [[13:21:53]] For-53 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 76, is identical to 75. You insist, Nestor Ivanovich? Give my word to Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u175	Thank you. It is the position of the profile committee, as stressed by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and our chairman today, that is of interest to the national deputies of Ukraine. Of course, we respect your personal views, both as chairman and personally as head of the committee, but we are interested in the position of the Agrarian Policy Committee, so I insist that there be appropriate comments. On the other hand, we are concerned today that, despite the fact that you are now forming power in the state, the State is losing control over the use of agrarian land and that by changing the use of agricultural land, we will reduce agricultural land, which can certainly threaten the food security of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u176	There is 76 amendments to the vote of the German and Shufric national deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:25]] For-60 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 77. Kovalov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u177	I want to point out that this bill 2194 has this notion of "removing the top layer of the land." What does that mean? I've got an illegal sand mining in my district, and now if this bill is passed, you can take off the top layer of fertile soil, not just fertile soil, but sand in general, and get it. So we can actually legitimize the illegal mining of useful fossils of local importance. And I think it's unfaithful, and it contradicts those ambushes that we promised people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u178	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u179	Not without permission, but according to a project that agrees in an orderly manner. That's the first one. The other one. There is no duplication, since in fact one authority does not agree with the land structure. And that's 100 percent of the total corruption story within the country, so it's been taken away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u180	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 77 amendments, People's Deputy Kovalova. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:24:57]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 79, Thorochtius. Don't insist. It's the '80s. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u181	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. Colleagues, I suggest you return to the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. In the first version of the bill, the rule reads as follows that local land authorities control land authorities, i.e. the body controls itself. Do you not see here the possibility of both conflict of interest and possible abuses of authority, and the absence of any control by other authorities that should control exactly such acts of corruption? And so my correction, it's very simple, and again it's very logical and balanced, it suggests the following. It enables city councils to coordinate the activities of local land authorities. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u182	There is 80 amendments to the vote of the Cabachenka People’s Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:26:28]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 81, Lukashev, Pavlovenko. Who's it gonna be? Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u183	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the number of our amendments is aimed at protecting the right of Ukrainian citizens to rule the land, to prevent the sale of land, and also to prevent violations of the Constitution, which are unfortunately numerous in the proposed bill. In particular, it raises concerns about the willingness of the drafters to eliminate self-governance, as one of the types of controls, and to give officials of the local self-governance authorities authority to exercise state control. Executive authorities of rural, rural, urban councils are invited to grant the right to exercise State control over land use and protection. At the same time, I note that this proposal is contrary to articles 6 and 7 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Please put my amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u184	The 81th Amendment of Luke, Pauline, is based on the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:57]] For-64 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 82. Crybaby, please. Don't insist. It doesn't, does it? Okay. 83rd, Lukashev, Pavlovenko. Please, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u185	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, I reiterate the inadmissibility of both the violation of the Constitution and the vote and the formation of the law, where there are rules that conflict with other laws, and thus the complexity of their implementation. Furthermore, it is very important to understand the implementation of this law in this so-called administrative reform, the reform of decentralization, when the local authorities do not really understand their authority to the end, and this land reform will come to them very soon, which will bring a lot of disagreements, problems, conflicts on the ground. That's why I'm asking you to put my amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u186	There is an 83 - page vote of the national deputies of Lukasheva, Pavlovka. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:26]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 84th. Volosin, Slavicka. Who's it gonna be? Hairline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, let's continue a little bit of anti-anxiety. Today, when the so-called $1.9 trillion security stimulus is adopted in the United States, everyone who is a little bit interested in the world economy knows that we are facing a huge inflation of the dollar. Because the excess dollar mass creates pressure on that currency. And now investors are looking for where they can put free money. By the way, who has a particularly large deposit in dollars, I advise them not to keep it in dollars. Thus, including the task of mass buying up agrarian lands. It's not just Ukraine, it's all over the world. A wise host in these conditions, statesman, would hold these lands to the price increase, not to sell them in conditions of total poverty, in conditions of continuation of war, when, in fact, hedge funds are willing to invest big money, but in fact at a much lower price than this could be in a few years. That's why this reform is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u188	There is 84 amendments to the vote of Volosin, Slavicsky. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:30:57]] For-60 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 85. Coltunovich, Zagradni. Who's it gonna be? Coltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u189	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I would like to point out that, indeed, when we are considering today the second such complex land law that is actually conducting the process of dealination, I would like to draw attention to the subtlety, double standards and hypocrisy of such legislative initiatives. Because many of the authors said that we are realizing the bright right of Ukrainian citizens to own land, to buy land and to sell land. But let's take a look at it and figure it out, I figured out who could buy these land plots? And they can be bought exclusively by oligarchs. Because if we even take 100 hectares of land, 2,000 dollars, at a minimum wage of 6,000, the payment per hand is 4 thousand 830. That means that, well, I figured, 1 thousand 142 months would have to put aside my salary to buy a land plot, 95 years. Why do you deceive people into giving them the right to buy land? Disgusting law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u190	Thank you. The vote is amended by 85, Coltunovich, Zagradni. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:30.]] For-61 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 86. Shufrich, Kiva. Who's it gonna be? Nobody's here. Is there? Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear Head, I have just been approached by even our Cologne voters. They are very concerned about the question that is being considered in this room today. So people are afraid that there's actually a substitution of concepts and instead of protecting people's constitutional rights and getting fair value, they're going to try to cut down and change the destination of land, so that real agrarian lands are sold as wasteland, like garbage dumps. That's why we took the principle position to protect the interests of all our citizens, no matter where they live or who they voted for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u192	I'm betting on the 86th amendment of Nestor Ivanovich and Kiwi. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:12]] For-60 Unfortunately, the decision is not taken, Nestor Ivanovich. It wasn't the wheelie that helped. Next 87th. Sphinx. Don't insist. 88th. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u193	Dear colleagues! Sobolje, Fatherland. This is a very important amendment that, in effect, sets out in this article and the following how to manage the local lands, including those further united communities. The schemes that were invented in the transfer of 2 million acres [2 million ha] of land, according to the President’s decree, to the united communities, when these lands, which have already been leased for 49 years, are unfortunately not being annulled by this article. For example, the Jaremcan community, which had discovered 42 acres [42 ha] of captives who had been handed over to unknown people in Kiev. The same situation in Zaporozhye, where a hairdresser somehow owned thousands of acres of land that were directly related to gardening. I think we should leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u194	There is 88 amendments to the vote, the national MP Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:51]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 89. You're an outcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u195	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. I insist on this amendment. And, colleagues, I'd like to pay attention and a reporter, and I'll have a question for you. To the main question. Did they put order on the ground? Does the Kiev City Council know and own information about the area numbers? When and how will the top corrupters return everything they stole and supposedly privatized or on their own, or on their own? Let's move on. When will the Audit be held? Let's move on. Were they listening (this is already a question from us, from the "Fatherland" faction) at the committee meeting, or were they listening to the Kyiv City Council and perhaps others? Why has the city’s master plan for this year not been approved so far? Why, until now, do not the unified communities have information about the real state of things and about the real owners of the land that really belongs to whom — and the people who live in Kiev and other cities. Please tell me why you didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u196	You will? The committee's position is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u197	My dear colleague, including the city councils, we worked on this law. And everything related to the master plan, we have the law coming into force on 24.07 this year, 2280, after the publication of number 711, where this entire documentation replaces the spatial development plan. And the landowners know how to confirm it. In the city of Kiev, this included the development of your faction’s deputies, and many rights were taken into account. Just in Kiev, this is likely to take more time than in other cities. It replaces not only the generals, but the DPT and many other project issues with land at certain times, not all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u198	The 89th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of the People’s Republic of Lithuania is based on the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:38:17]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, yes, 90, Catchura. Don't insist. 91st. Lukashev. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u199	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, is deeply concerned about the wish of the authors of the bill to abolish the mechanism for placing land on particularly valuable and specific features of the change in the target destination of particularly valuable lands. In our view, such a desire by the authors of the bill is nothing more than a step toward the loss of the values and values of the lands in question. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture’s reorganisation of the agro-industry policy, which has been eliminated for many months, has been re-created, one can only imagine with horror what will be at the scene when the bill begins to be implemented. So let's stop, let's get caught up, and let's not create any problems for Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u200	Puts to the vote 91 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:52]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 92. This crying. Don't insist. Next. Tymoshenko, 93rd. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u201	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Have you heard the President of Ukraine's statement to fight the oligarchy? I think everyone heard. But now the law that is being passed on the sale of agricultural land is being passed for the benefit of the global agrarian oligarchy and the local agrarian oligarchy, the younger brothers. On the stand stands the head of the committee, one of the oligarchs who works in the agrarian sphere and who has a conflict of interest. What specific issues are dealt with by this law? First. Sell agricultural land to foreigners. The other one. The decommissioning of state control entirely by the use of agricultural land. A collection of 50 acres [50 ha] of farmland, free of charge, is held by Ukrainian farmers. A metre of farmland can now be taken off. Plus, it's an opportunity to destroy agrarian production.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u202	There is 93 amendments to the vote of National MP Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:34]] For-65 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 94. You're an outcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u203	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, once and for all, we call your attention to the fact that this amendment that I insist on, as do others prepared by the Fatherland faction, raises the main question. But who owns it, and who stole from the Ukrainians now those areas that are self-absorbed, which with all kinds of schematics have moved away from municipal property, from state enterprises? First, state the order of the earth. One. The other one. Report to the people. Two. And the third. After that, Ukrainians first have to receive land acts and then all the other questions. Therefore, we urge your committee, Sir Solski, to hold committee hearings at least in Kiev and for the Chinese. Can you analyze and tell people when you will return illegally occupied areas from Darnica to Obolona? You want to go downtown? So is the center. Give justice to the earth in one place.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u204	There is 94 amendments to the House of Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:43:05]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 95. National Deputy Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to point out once again that the bill that we are considering today has nothing to do with land reform. This is not a reform in the normal, broad sense of the word. It is an attempt to eliminate Ukrainian farmers on an on-line basis from the opportunity of competing principles to actually get control, to get ownership of an agricultural assignment. This law also solves a number of other problems. The chairman of the committee said that decentralization is the transfer of all powers to a united community. That's not so, sir, the committee head. This includes the restructuring of powers, which are at the level of the state in general on land control, as well as at the level of the area, to the district councils. I also want to point out that those formulations that are in the law should be absolutely clear and clear, and not have a double interpretation, nor should they diminish the rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u206	Thank you. There is a vote of 95 amendments to the People's Deputy Vlasenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:36]] For-69 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 98. Hairline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u207	We continue our education campaign for the Cologne voters and everyone else. For the last time since the vote on the Law on Earth, there have been many criticisms from some of our colleagues, who have repeatedly mentioned what this critical rhetoric refers to, particularly, the esteemed patronage, Mr. Soros. And the question is that Grandpa Soros, as they like to talk about him, is not really a mere metzenata, but a very experienced and very skilled investor who plays in speculative world markets. And what's the ground for? One simple example. There's this holding company, DEKO AGRO, registered in Luxembourg. By the way, it's also about the fact that in the West, everyone's honest and not looking for cheap jurisdiction to avoid paying taxes. So this company owns 2.5 million hectares of agricultural land in Latin America. 25 percent of this company belongs to Mr. Soros. And accordingly, this company today has great interest in opening up the market for land and through.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u208	An amendment is made to the vote number 98 of the national deputies of Volosin, Slavicsky. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:46:09]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next 90th Amendment. Volosin, Slavicka. Hairline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u209	Thank you. Then we need to understand clearly. And by the way, the interesting thing is that I've been communicating with some of the representatives of the "Serial of the People" factions, and including the heads of committees of certain, very intelligent people, who honestly and frankly say that in communicating with representatives of Western companies, there is a clear and clear idea that if the market for land is not available to foreigners, and above all to legal persons, the market for land is basically not needed by anyone. So they will feel that Ukraine has failed to fulfill its promises and has not done what they want it to do. Because when they talk about Ukraine’s need for a market for land, they mean the market for land to open to itself, not so that one farmer can sell land to another. And I've heard it from people who, if they have a conscience, they won't vote in favour of this bill because they know it's true. And because that's the basic logic: nobody's interested in reform reforms in Ukraine, it's only interesting what can benefit them because they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u210	The 99th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Volosin is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:41]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to the 100th. National MP Coltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u211	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In fact, the 100th amendment of 3,000 128, which means that another 3,000 28 amendments and we're going at a good pace is the first. The other one. President Zelenski is so afraid of criticism that he imposes sanctions on opposition deputies, illegal sanctions, contrary to current legislation, unconstitutional sanctions. What is he afraid of? And he's afraid of the truth, he's afraid that in agriculture, for example, when he came to power, the fall in agricultural production took place by 11.5 percent. These aren't my words, and these are official data from the Ukrainian State Statistics Service, which identifies the failure of all macroeconomic indicators. And in January, agriculture fell again to minus 5.7 percent, and it's happening again in today's government, under today's government, and most importantly, to the President, who's completely unreceptive to criticism. He believes that it is the opposition MPs who are taking steps that are declining agricultural production.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u212	A hundred amendments are put to the vote, and the committee proposes to reject them. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:08]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 101. People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u213	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. I insist on this amendment. And most importantly, what I want to bring to the attention of all citizens of Ukraine is that we demand that every part of the land, your land pie belong to you, and only with your voluntary consent could it be either alienated or a contract of sale or mines and so on and so forth. Simply put, the Fatherland faction clearly says to the whole world: well, it's not ready now for a fraction of the monopoly on land reform; it's not a land reform. The third question that we're focusing on. First, a referendum is needed, and we need to hear and learn the true opinion of all the united territorial communities. As respectable Ukrainians, you have already chosen new authorities in united territorial communities. You must decide what will happen to your land that you have lived on for centuries, let God continue to live. That's why it's before the referendum. We demand to stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u214	There shall be 101 amendments to the People's Deputies of Nadjajchenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:36]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 102. You're an outcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u215	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. 102 amendment, I insist, and I would like to pay attention to what hasn't yet been said in this room. The anticorruption agency, the Anticorruption Agency, has even published 30 tops of widespread corruption schemes in the field of land relations. That is why the removal of corruption in land relations, deregulation and simplification are false. We demand that the top corrupters essentially be removed from this process by huge landowners. Lands that were in an illegal, untransparent way taken away, alienated, or stolen from people and in united communities are returned to the people. Draw order in the Earth cadastre. And only after that do we talk about any other questions. Simply put, stop the consideration of these issues now and move on to order and, above all, to order.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u216	The vote is based on 102 amendments made by the People's Deputy of the Territory. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:03]] For-68 The decision is not taken. 103rd. National Deputy Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This bill consists of two parts. My first point is that this bill has nothing to do with land reform. On the one hand, the bill reduces the ability of Ukrainian farmers to actually use agricultural land. But the second part of the bill is being completely destroyed by the State’s control over the implementation and use of land, including agriculture, and the enforcement of environmental and land legislation. Once again, decentralization is not just a transfer of all powers to one body. Decentralisation is a thin system where really the most important, fundamental, key powers are passed on to local communities, but remain mechanisms for State control over the implementation of Ukrainian legislation, including legislation. Unfortunately, this law can't handle such proportions, but my law does, even though consumers fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u218	I'm betting on a vote of 103 amendments, National Deputy Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:32]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 104 revisions. Royal Natalia Yuriovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u219	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! As everyone understands, the position of "The Opposition Platform for Life" was very clearly expressed a year ago when there was a disgraceful sale of Ukrainian land in this room. And now our position is unalterable: we believe that we must first burn the earth to get not only seven million pies but that the earth, its own land, can be obtained by every Ukrainian. And the second thing we insist on is to hold an all-U.S. referendum and ask people what people will give you, what answer they will give. Why did you pass the Referendum Act here? They were so proud, they talked about it on each side. And the most important question is about the land market, are you still hiding and afraid to go to a referendum? That's why we insist on holding an all-U.S. referendum and only after the definition.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u220	The vote shall be amended by 104. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:55.]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 105. Voloshin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u221	Please give the word to another author, Antonini Slavicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u222	Now, please, Antonina Slavicka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u223	Yes, good afternoon, dear colleagues! This amendment refers to what is proposed to leave a valid revision of article 9, paragraph "and" of the Land Code, concerning the powers of the Kyiv, Sevastopol City Councils in the field of land relations with regard to the control of the use of protected land of municipal property. We did not understand the logic of the legislators ’ initiative, why the committee ruled it out. I would also like to say that today we have referred our decision to the Constitutional Court to reach a conclusion on the Bill on Presidential Powers to appoint the Director of the DBR and the NABU. In doing so today, the bill deals in fact with the second stage of judicial reform without the conclusions of the Constitutional Court and the decisions concerning the interpretation of the Constitution on the right of the Ukrainian people to dispose of their land and without the decision of the Constitutional Court on the previously approved law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u224	There is 105 amendments to the vote of the national deputies of Volosin, Slavicsky. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:40]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 106 revisions. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I see some of the attitudes of individual colleagues in the hall. But I would recommend that you pick up the documents, raise the table, raise the basic bill, and look at the content that's proposed here in this bill. Because that proposed content tells us that an anti-constitutional mechanism is being created when the owner of a land area of private property can, without consent, with the authorized authority of the executive branch, change any target area on its own. Or one more. That the proposed position of the project allows for the exclusion of the land use of the agricultural assignment of state and municipal property without notice and agreement with the renter. The next moment. Article 130 of the Code of Land proposes to give priority to the purchase of agricultural land, which will be granted to a person with a special permit to extract beneficial fossils. And so on and so on and so forth. That's why I have an offer. We'll be in this bill for a long time. You take a read, you'll change.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u226	There is 106 amendments to the vote of the People's Deputy, Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:58:05]] For-64 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 107. Cool. Don't insist. The next amendment is 108. Nicolanca.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u227	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. It has already been said in previous speakers that by adopting a number of rules of this law, we are balancing the situation of control over land protection issues, in particular municipal ownership. Therefore, my amendment concerns precisely what needs to be done (rule 108) to regain control over land ownership and the ability to apply environmental and land legislation accordingly. Because if we leave in the option that you're going to accept, then there's no place to apply these environmental standards, because control is going to be completely lost. So I think we need to support this. And in general, I will continue in the following direction with regard to part two of article 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u228	There is 108 amendments to the vote of the National MP, Nikolaynko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:26]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 109 revisions. Nicolanca, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u229	Nicolanca, Fatherland. As I've already pointed out, 108 degrees the same thing, there's a sequel. Unfortunately, you didn't support the first one, but this is essentially a continuation of this amendment. This is the second part of article 9 of the Codex earth to be excluded from the changes to this part. Because all authorizations are clearly defined in the current codex. And if we make such changes, apart from confusion, I don't think that's going to make any effective decisions. The correct revision needs to be supported. But in general, when I look at what's going on, I realize that most of my colleagues are just doing a number, understanding, not even wanting to, not having the slightest desire to get in and read the bill. This is a very important project. And, colleagues, it's going to have a great resonance meaning, no less than the Harkow Agreements, which took place many years ago. After all, read a big bill, a lot of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u230	There is 109 amendments to the vote of the National MP, Nikolaynka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:00:55]] For-65 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 110. Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u231	The high-ranking chairman, the distinguished national MPs, the distinguished voters, are present! I would like to point out that the very concept of the two proposed legislative initiatives on the purchase of agricultural land is contrary to the economic realities that exist today. Well, for example, I said I'd fail at all macroeconomic indicators for 18 months. You see, the debt on the salary is almost 3 billion dollars, the utility is 81 billion dollars. An absolute record in the history of Ukraine. People have nothing to pay for utilities. There's an absolute low level of purchasing capacity in the population. Under these conditions, it seems that they are offered land for such large sums of land. It is obvious that this question is exclusively an oligarhat, a monopoly that is now in Ukraine and has been formed throughout all these 30 years of independence. Thus, it is not the ultimate citizen of Ukraine that is the beneficiary, but primarily the oligarchs. That's who this bill is for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u232	110 amendments shall be put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:02:20]] For-57 The decision is not taken. 112. It's a royal one. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, I want to support my colleague, Alexander Koltunovich, who said very well. Well, people today have nothing to pay for the heat. There's no money to pay for tariffs today. You're welcome. And at this time, you're making an offer for the sale of Ukrainian land. Well, it's very clear to everyone that people don't have money. Well, before that, you turn off the channels, so that people don't see this land being looted, how these lands will pass to foreigners, and how this will all happen. Therefore, honourable colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life" appealed to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to declare the law unconstitutional. And we believe that the Constitutional Court will decide sooner or later, but it will.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u234	The vote shall be amended by 112. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:03:45]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next 113. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u235	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. How is what is happening to the earth and what the authorities are doing to the earth? A law is adopted that essentially eliminates or puts the Ukrainian farmer in totally uncompetitive conditions over the earth. This allows large corporations to control the vast arrays of Ukrainian agricultural land. Then the restriction is lifted on what such owner can do with this land. And then the restrictions on environmental and land legislation are removed. So this is about the ideology of so-called reforms. I want to remind you that, in fact, recently, the PNB has decided that if they vote and this becomes a national betrayal, they should be held accountable. The sale of Ukrainian agricultural land is evidently a national one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u236	There is a vote of 113 amendments to the People's Deputy Vlasenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:05:15]] For-56 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 114. Royal Natalia Yuriovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life", we are not against land reform, but we are in favour of reform for the benefit of citizens, a reform that will not today give Ukraine land to foreign speculators and such local raiders. And for an honest burial of land to be carried out today. For example, when the land was destroyed, more than 30 million Ukrainian citizens did not receive their land. More than 10 million hectares [10 million ha] of land are owned by the state, and it needs to be broken up fairly today. The first priority right to obtain land should be given to the most socially vulnerable underprivileged citizens, pensioners, war veterans and workers, and many children’s families, as well as others. So, ladies and gentlemen, first you have to give up the land and then you have to sell it. We're definitely against the sale.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u238	There is 114 amendments to the Royal People's Deputy. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[14:06:50]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 115. Germany, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u239	Germany, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, I would just like to remind the reporter that on December 1st we're going to be 30 years old. In the referendum, the people supported the declaration in which they said (in a referendum, once again) that the earth is the property of the people and the foundation of material sovereignty. What I don't understand is what I'm talking about!? That the sale of land for export or for use is article 11 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. It is a betrayal of the Father’s interests and is done to the detriment of sovereignty. That's the first one. And the second. I'd like to remind you that this is my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u240	Amendment 115 shall be put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:08:22]] For-53 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 116. Please, Vasil Ivanovich, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u241	And the sequel. Dear colleagues, but the Supreme Council, the legislative body in the parliamentary republic, cannot serve the IMF. Do you not remember how you sold this land? You sold it, the distinguished representatives of the People's Servants who supported it. That's what the story will tell. I would just like to say, dear colleagues, dear friends, honourable citizens of Ukraine, we are now eyewitnesses selling out the honor, conscience and independence of our country because its sovereignty is being sold. These are the rules that are made. And for those of you who run around, who run around the IMF and perform their demands, I'd like to say, "Cerkish slang, folk slang, don't get attached to the IMF, or you'll fuck up the boats." That's what this is about. Don't do this. And study etymology, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u242	There is 116 amendments to the vote of the German national deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:09:52]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 117th. Torchty. Don't insist. 118th. Kovalov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u243	Colleagues, I'd like to point out that it's Bill 2194. We have a complex: we have initially reduced the value added tax of 14 percent, so we actually have saved 30 percent of the value added tax. What does that mean? This means that large farmers have more money for the purchase of agricultural land, since it is out of these savings that they will be purchasing the land of the agricultural assignment itself. So I think that Bill 2194 is very premature and doesn't have to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u244	You insist on putting on.? Let's not put it in. Okay. Thank you. Next. Next, 119th. Cool. Do Not Urge 120th. Timishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u245	Dear citizens of Ukraine, there is now a real Sabbath in this room from the sale of agricultural land, the Sabbath against the interests of the Ukrainian nation. The Ukrainian nation is deprived of Ukrainian agricultural land. The command was given by the president of Ukraine, Vladimir Zelensky, and he is following this line. When he was running for president, he promised that every significant issue would be held through a referendum and then to vote in the hall. The land is sold out to foreigners, oligarchs, both native and global, without any referendum, and he knows that more than 70 percent of the people are against it. Moreover, the bill voted in parliament on the referendum is not signed for 1.5 months. It's a conscious action.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u246	There is 120 amendments to the vote of National Deputy Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:12:15]] For-60 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 121. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u247	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I'm going to read you a valid rule of article 10 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. So among the powers of district councils in the area of land relations, point e is the solution of land disputes. In a bill prepared for the first reading, it is this mandate that is proposed to be deleted, i.e. to remove the authority of the district council to resolve land disputes. And now I want to ask, very specific and again logical questions to the head of the land committee. If you are taking over this authority, the first question is: Who will settle land disputes in the interests of district councils? And the second question. Will the district councils be able to appeal to a court, that is, to be prosecutors in land disputes? And now we're talking about land of communal property that belongs to the district councils. I thank you very much for your answer. And I'd like to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u248	Thank you. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u249	A respected colleague, all participants in land relations, including government authorities, who at certain stages have the right to seek the protection of their rights or to challenge other rights. These rights exist, and they are nowhere to be shared in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u250	The vote is based on 121 amendments made by the national deputy Kabachenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:14:09]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next amendment is 122. Lukashev, Pavlovenko. Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u251	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, my amendment refers to article 10, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Code of Land, where after the words "in the field of land relations" I propose to add the words "in the areas of the region". Actually, with this right, I want to draw attention to the situation that has arisen with the new so-called circuitry of the country. We've already talked about chaos that was created in connection with liquidation, then with the creation of the Ministry of Agropolitics, which is chaos at the central level. For more than six months now, we do not know what we are doing, what the authority is, what the responsibility of 139 new districts is. That is why, in these conditions, the chaos of governance, both at the central and local levels, is dangerous for the country to start and carry out land reform. Therefore, I ask you to withdraw the bill at all, and to put my amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u252	Let's start with the repair. There is 122 amendments to the national deputies Lukshev and Pavlovka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:15:38]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 123rd. Hairline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u253	I'm, you know, I'm sure that the vast majority of the colleagues in this room are now sitting and quietly hating the members of the regulatory committee who, when they approved a specific 70 percent vote for the MPs, did not exclude the rights. Otherwise, they all went home a long time ago, would have done their job, would have stayed Mr. Stefanchuk, Mr. Solsky, and we are the right-wing authors who are here. But it happened as it is, so I'm going to have to sit here for a long time, I assure you, and listen to us, or don't pull idiotic, state-damaged bills. And so it will be, by the way, with every bill, and a lot of them that you want to put into the IMF and certain lobbyist groups inside Ukraine right now. So either change the 70 percent vote, or sit down and listen, and I welcome you all. So please put my order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u254	Thank you. I will, but I will take advantage of the small right to reply. Parliamentarianism is such a thing that we sometimes have to work. Thank you. I'm betting on the 123rd amendment of the People's Deputies of Volosin and Slavicsky. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:17:06]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next 124. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u255	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, three thousand and four amendments remain. I have the opportunity to draw attention to why Zelensky is even asking about the sale of Ukrainian land. Because by taking on debts over the past and a half years, there are certainly questions that need to be addressed to international creditors. No one has reversed the issue of external administration, which in fact continues in Ukraine during these last seven years. And what does it look like? For example, when you came to power, President Green and the new government, the holding was $82 billion, now 91. Everybody's saying that we keep paying off our debt, and the government, guaranteed by the state, has increased our debt by 9 billion. For every Ukrainian, it's $2,000 to $200, that's how we pay off our debt. Another good figure: 64 percent of the budget's income or 700 billion is an extra loan. That is why the Ukrainian land is being sold out today. That is why Ukraine thus accepts debt and takes part in this external administration. Thank you for your attention. Please don't support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u256	What about the repairs? You have the amendment that in article 10, a paragraph after the words "earth relations" should be added to "in the territory of the region." Put it to a vote, right? I bet you do. It's just that I have a request for all the great right-wing authors, and I would be very grateful if you could find this opportunity to comply with the requirements of the Rules and to discuss your amendment, not in general, with respect to the law. I think it would be kind, it would be right, it would be in full compliance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations and respect for the colleagues sitting here. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the 124th amendment of National MP Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:19:15.]] For-54 Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. Next 125th. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Kiwa Ilha Who's Kiwa or Shufrich? You don't insist, do you? I can't see, dear colleagues. Nestor Ivanovich, please. I don't see any reporters, colleagues. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u257	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, for your attention. Dear colleagues, we do remember: the peoples of the land, the peoples of the land, and once again the peoples of the land. Then it turns out that it's impossible for the people to do it because there is no Law on Referendum, and the fact that there are rules in the Constitution, and what has already been referendums in Ukraine, even without law, is already a secondary issue. But still, why do we not approach the people of Ukraine at the time of the adoption of such laws, sorry, do you not address the people of Ukraine? And the second question is the position of the Constitutional Court on the desire to consider the legality of the sale process itself of Ukrainian land as regards the constitutionality of the process. The Constitutional Court accepted the relevant conduct. Why are you in a hurry? Who do you want to sell?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u258	A vote of 125 amendments by Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. The committee suggests rejecting it, unfortunately. Please identify and vote. [[14:20:57]] For-57 The decision is not taken. The following amendment of the 126th People’s Deputies of Plačkovy. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u259	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u260	Don't insist. Thank you. 127. Sphinx. Don't insist. 128th. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u261	Dear colleagues, look what you've done with the areas and see what authority you've given to the district councils is laughter and sin. Well, either call it off and don't make fun of me. Areas have neither ownership nor their own authority nor their own income. And after these votes, you're going to take away all the other powers. How can you, for example, take away the authority to coordinate work within the area? If, for example, objects are created that are objects that serve all the united communities in the territory of the region, how can they be areas within which the district centers are located? In my opinion, this law is worthless. Or you may admit that district councils are not needed, but you are afraid to say so because you lied to people. You promised the executive organs and you didn't want to enter them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u262	A vote of 128 people's deputies, Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:22:46]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 129th. National Deputy Volosin Oleg Anatoliyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u263	Dear Chairman, you have, by the way, raised a very good question in your comment on how to correctly read the papers. We've been in this room for two years, and we've been looking at this room as extremely meaningful revisions from any factions from the right to the left, and they're more argumentative if there's no mask and there's no "please support and vote." Oh, no, if another phrase is "the right is rejected, but the logic of your words is." These are two formulas that allow any edit to be approved. In everything else, just the majority constantly show disrespect for the opposition. That is why we show disrespect for the majority. We don't explain what we're doing, because everything matters equally to everyone, but we're talking about some interesting things that people might be interested in. That's it. It's all very simple in this Supreme Council under your headship.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u264	Thank you. As you did in argument 129 of the amendment that belongs to you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote 129th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Volosin and Slavicsky. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote. [[14:24:11]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 130th. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please. There are 2,000 386 amendments left.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u265	Thank you for counting. You probably have Excel tables open there, you're doing a very good calculation of each. 1:1. It's accepted, yes. But I would like to pay attention to the concept of land reform. Of course, these draft laws have nothing to do with land reform and what Witte, Stolipin, was once offered in due time. Even in Ukraine’s modern history, Ukraine’s new history, when the Earth Code was adopted in 2001, where this true right of citizens to own the land was realized. Today all these legislative initiatives, they are meant to force Ukrainian citizens to give up their land rations in principle. Look, for example, at least in another sub-law or bill, changes to tax legislation, which raises the value of rent. Not rent, but land pie taxes are raised. In order for the citizens of Ukraine where they are staying, they have to be handed over to agroholdings. That's the first one. The second, of course, is by legal persons. This article and this norm are totally not in line with the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u266	Thank you. There is 130 amendments to the vote of the national MPs Coltunović and Zagradni. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:25:46]] For-61 Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. But when they reasoned, I even gave you my voice. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next amendment is 131. National MP Nikolaynko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u267	Thank you for the chairman's support of my colleague. I hope he will also express his support for my amendment. Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. And he's going to say the magic phrase, "please support and vote," maybe there'll be more votes. So, as has already been pointed out, it should be understood that if administrative-territorial reform has not been sufficiently advanced, a significant number of areas have been reduced (and this causes concern and frequent disturbances in places) then some of the possibilities provided by today's Code of Conduct should be left to regulate land activities. As far as this amendment is concerned. I'd like to leave the treatment as it is today. Because if we start to invent in this law and in one territorial community, like, one, give these rights and not give them to others, then there will be chaos and things that people don't like very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u268	Thank you. The vote is based on 131 amendments made by the national MP, Nikolainka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:27:22]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 132. A duck. Don't insist. 133rd, Fris. Don't insist. 134th. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u269	Yvchenko, Fatherland. You promised Ukrainian farmers and Ukrainians much when you were carrying out the Law on the Market of the Earth at night. You promised to find cheap money. It's not done. You promised government funds to small farmers so they could buy land. It's not done. You promised to invent the land. Colleagues, you didn't do it either. We have land today that is uninventory. You claim them to be insolent under this law. Do you not understand that? These landless lands will be handed over to local officials for dissipation. Think about what you're doing, colleagues, before you press the buttons. I advise, first of all, that we take stock of all the arrays, and leave the forests and parks directly in the State Land Cadastre. And this is going to be, believe me, about the lands, especially the Carpathian lands, when they see a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u270	The vote is amended by 134 national deputies Ivchenka and Meidich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:28:58]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 135. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u271	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, before opening up the earth’s market to the first condition in the whole world, this is land inventory. And the second. What do you call "land transfer to the territorial communities"? 55 percent of the land today is leased for 10 years. Another 25 are leased for 15 years. What are you telling them? You're handing over the leased land. And you take the economy from these lands to the center. These are double standards of decentralization. These communities will not be able to now: (a) raise the rent rate, which is minimally recorded 10 years ago. They will not be able to influence the land tax, and these are their own costs. Here are the double standards of decentralization. You're already passing what's 10 years old, 35 years old, 49 years old, is leased. These are the double standards of decentralization that you're proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u272	There is 135 amendments to the vote of the national deputy Yvchenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:30:24]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 136. Black lobsters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u273	Dear colleagues, look, I come back to you all in the face, I want to see the eyes of every national MP. Please pay particular attention to the majors, all of us giving the word to the people to be the voice of the people. This law first conveys the land to the communities. I represent 131 districts, that's 13 communities that are now waiting for land to be fully legal. Second, this law eliminates the authorization of the geocadastra to rule the earth. So let's stop populism and not delay time, and finally give the land to the communities that have been waiting for it for so long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u274	Thank you. You don't insist, do you? 137th. I'm going. Hades doesn't insist. 138th. Scum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u275	I asked. 137th, Hayden. [[The voice from the hall.]] That's how everyone insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u276	All right, guys. Vadim Evgenovich, you can only answer for yourself. When I did. How can you not hear? I'm talking in the microphone. All right, let's do 137, Hayade. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u277	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u278	You don't insist, do you? Scum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u279	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Mr. Chairman, we insist on every amendment we make. So if we have not heard anything wrong, still feel that we are insisting on them and give us our word. I'd like to say a little bit about the philosophy of this bill. My colleagues seem to see that we have time with you, and I would like to advise you to take advantage of this time. In fact, open this bill today and spend these half-hours that are now, and the next hours that will be under these amendments to read the final text of this bill. And see if the final edition fits those strategic ambushes that you've drawn for yourself. Because even when we're talking about the free market for agricultural land, we have to talk about a market that stimulates small and medium-sized agriculture. That's what Mr. Zelensky promised, that's what each of you promised, that's what people require of you, I'm sure when you're driving around the region. Today, logic is completely different in this bill. We don't see enough support for small and medium.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u280	A vote is taken on amendment 138 by the national deputy Shkrum. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:33:18]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next 139th. Vlasenko. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're a little grumpy, you don't always get to be here. It's such a trailer just to make you understand what this reaction is. It's on the one side. On the other hand, you urge us to follow the Rules. I also ask you to follow the Rules. You are expressly forbidden by the Rules to comment on the speeches of the national MPs. This is the first time. Secondly, going back to the previous speech of the People's Deputy, who urged us not to engage in populism. You don't have to do this, but you have to work properly and professionally on the bill. This bill is not just about handing over land to communities that Fatherland supports, this bill to deprive essentially Ukrainian farmers of the possibility of freely acquiring land on equal terms. And this bill on the destruction of essentially state control over land relations. This is unacceptable, totally unacceptable! So don't read.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u282	Thank you. The vote is amended by 138 national deputies Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] 139th, yeah. [[14:34:54]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Before I go to the next amendment, just without commenting in any way, I'll let you know that I'm using the same right to a replica when my last name sounds. In other cases, I do not comment in any way. Thank you. Next, 140th. National Deputy Volosin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u283	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to support the previous speaker. You know, the slogan "Earth to Farmers, Factory to Workers" on one sixth of the land has already been heard, and everyone knows how it ended. So that's what these "land of communities" screams, that's what populism is. And now, the honourable chairman, in the same logic alone, in which I explained my attitude toward the declaration of amendments, I will tell the anecdote, which is closely related, in fact, to land relations and to the IMF. Two decis meet. One of them says: Abram, lend me $100. He says there's no $100, there's 80. He says, well, give me 80, 20 you'll owe me. That's what the IMF wants. No matter how much they give us, they always give us less, and we're all just as guilty. And so no matter how much you attract lobbyist bills to their favor, we will all be guilty with you, our children and grandchildren. Think about it when you vote for this and other similar bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u284	There is 140 amendments to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:36:34]] For-51 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 141. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u285	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. 141 revisions. But respectable citizens of Ukraine, do you think, how many times can and should have signed the Referendum Act? At least 141 times. What does the Law on the Referendum require? But because we, the Fatherland faction and others, insist that you, the people of Ukraine in the referendum, decide the main question: do you agree with the fact that the Ukrainian land will now be sold out? I insist on my amendment because I urge the court to consider any dispute between the District Council and the other sides of the land relationship. But first and foremost, what I insist on is respect for the Ukrainian people. Because a referendum means a very simple solution to people's questions. Can he do that? I'm sure that's what we should do: sign the law and.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u286	141 amendment, People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:38:01]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 142. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u287	Dear colleagues, of course, we would be better off in the hall if there was a decision by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the constitutionality of the accepted market for land. Unfortunately, there is no such decision. We have no effect or pressure, nor do we want to press the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. It's a good thing we're going in an articleistic way, and for society, we're having a discussion for the country. Different factions and groups, different spheres of thought regarding the pros and cons of this bill. I clearly say that the bill has both benefits and disadvantages. Plus, it's about land outside the population points that are passed on to the united territorial communities. And that my amendment on the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the field of land relations, which should be agreed with the Supreme Council on the change of purpose, is also taken into account. But a number of amendments are out of the question. And I'm going to ask, in particular, for confirmation, not confirmation, for Amendment 142. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u288	Thank you. There is 142 amendments to the vote of the People’s Deputy Batenka and Konstankevitch. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify yourself and vote. [[14:39:24]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 143. Nicolanca, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u289	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. You know, I'm using the time that we have here a lot, even to get a confession. Many of the fellow "Serves of the Nation" came up and asked what book am I reading? This book, I'll show it. To the cell, I guess. It's called the Asian Management Model. And here's an analysis of the experience of countries that are often cited as both President Zelensky, and many of you on air, that's Japan, Korea, China and Taiwan, about success and how they were able to become the "thickeners." So, I'm going to be in the following papers, commenting on them, and then I'll talk more about it. But there are three main reasons for success. And the first reason for success, even before industrial policy, is the right land reform and the focus on small farmers. And then I'm even going to quote, and I'm going to comment on another amendment, why the pursuit of large holdings and large agrarian enterprises has failed and has failed in other countries, both Asia and the whole world.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u290	There is 143 amendments to the vote of the National MP, Nikolaynka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:40:53]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 144, Halimon. Don't insist. 145th. Germano Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u291	Dear colleagues, the question is of Article 12. And you look at the question of how to make a regulator about land management in places and what we see here. First of all, look, we don't have an understanding of a united territorial community, it's not in the Constitution. But it is a law that has already created the organs of local self - government. So, please tell me, what changes are being made, what is being made? One is aimed at bringing chaos into the area, taking state control, and taking away the control of the local united communities of less than ten thousand or more. That's what this is about. And that's why I'd like to support our additions and our changes, and I want to come out of the basics of being human. And you don't have any mention of it here, you don't have any cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u292	There is 145 amendments to the vote of the German People’s Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:42:30.]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 146 revisions. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u293	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say. It has already been said that, in fact, we have no organs of self - government in place today. These paradises, which were created, are as poor as church mice. You know, they, the hospitals that were on the balance sheet in the area, they put them up to pay for businesses, because there's nothing to keep them, hospitals for people, clinics for people. And we can see here how the question is solved. Why do we solve the issues of the earth without the knowledge of the people, without their right to implement the administration of state affairs through a referendum? And last of all, I mean. No one canceled the December 1st referendum, no one. And until there's a referendum, it's not possible to talk about it at all. And the third.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u294	There is 146 amendments to the vote of the German and Shufrich national deputies, and the committee suggests that they be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:59]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 147. Kovalov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u295	I'd like to raise a question about the predominant right to acquire land by a legal person. I want a colleague to listen and read the amendment. It refers to the fact that a legal person has the predominant right to purchase agricultural land now and can pass that right on to a third party. How can we transfer this right now if a legal person is not actually able to buy this land for 3 years? What does that mean in the market, exactly, the legal relationship as it consists? That a legal person would simply trade this right to sell the right to a natural person. And that's why I think this norm is destructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u296	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u297	I want to remind you that the rule on the possibility of selling the dominant right was adopted in 2178-10 and entered into force. Secondly, I want to remind you that as a result of the compromise in this room, 2178-10 is only going to work for legal persons. So the possibility of concession is completely logical and supported by all associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u298	There is 147 amendments to the vote of the People’s Deputy Kovalova. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:45:32]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. 148th. Torchty. Don't insist. 149th. Shufrich, Kiva. Who's it gonna be? Kiwa, or Shufrich? Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u299	Thank you. The President-in-chief, in support of the appeal not only of the voters from Cologne but also of the voters from Lugansk, you see the position against this law united Ukraine – this is probably the only positive message of this law that they are already taking against it from Ivano-Frankivsk to Lugansk. So the question is, why is it today that the Codex of the Earth is in force if it protects the rights of our citizens enough? I insist once again: either the head of a profile committee representing the position of a profile committee in accordance with the Rules will provide appropriate explanations as to the position of a profile committee or put it on board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u300	Committee position, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u301	Nestor Ivanovich, the position of the committee is rejected. I take it you want to rule out again and return the city councils, including Sevastopol. I've got a question to ask you then, because that's a question you're so worried about. What call do you want to return to the Sebastopol Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u302	149 revisions. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:47:27]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 150, Krulko. Don't insist. The 151st. Tymoshenko. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u303	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Now in this room are the voting rights that are rejected by the committee, which will essentially make it impossible for the Ukrainian nation to dispose of its agricultural land. The Fatherland faction strongly opposes the sale of agricultural land to Ukraine because it deprives us of the possibility of real food security. This deprives us of the opportunity to have millions of jobs if agricultural land is sold. This deprives Ukraine of the opportunity to obtain organic products and hundreds of billions of euros in income. Our country is now being chosen, and this is being done in this sold Supreme Council under President Zelensky's orders. We are voting against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u304	There is 151 amendments to the vote by National Deputy Timoshenko and Tsimbaluka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[2:49:02]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 152. National Deputy Kabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u305	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. Colleagues, in chronological order, what you've done. First. You have removed the authority of the local councils to coordinate the work of the local authorities. The other one. You've cleared district councils in part of the land dispute. By this regulation, you are trying to remove the authority, more specifically, to reduce the authority of rural, rural and urban councils to control the use and protection of municipal property. And so my first question to the head of the profile committee is, are we really talking about decentralization in this room? And what is it exactly if we reduce the functions of local self - government every time? And the second question is even more interesting. It is suggested that the functions of conducting the Circadastre should be delegated to local authorities. And so the question is, which of the local governments will do this?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u306	Please take the position of the 152-way committee of the Cabachenka People's Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u307	Dear colleague! First. Indeed, redistribution functions are in favour of OTG. The other one. In the area of land protection, OTG is given two functions: control of self-absorbing and purposeless use. Since they are in charge, it makes sense that they can control it in this part. Question three. I'm, to be honest, already. So many questions that I no longer remember. If you can do it again, please do it again next time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u308	Please put to the vote 152 amendments of the national deputy Kabachenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:51:06]] For-58 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 153. Lukashev, Pavlovenko. Please, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u309	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to what this bill is called: improving the management and deregulation system in the field of land relations. At the same time, when reviewing the bill, as well as the amendments that have been supported, which have slightly changed the concept adopted in the first reading, which is already a violation, there is actually a situation where the bill makes the situation worse, less transparent, less controlled, and allows us to abuse in the implementation of the norms provided for in the bill. So it will enable those who have the money to deceive any peasant and take away a real Ukrainian citizen to own the land. This law violates both the Constitution and a series of laws, including local self - government.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u310	There is 153 amendments to the national deputies Lukshev and Pavlovka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:52:37]] For-55 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 154. Lukashev, Pavlovka. Please, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u311	All right, let's keep going. This law, yes, contravenes both the Constitution, the whole range of rules and articles of the Constitution, and it conflicts with a whole range of other laws, such as local self - government. It creates and can create very serious chaos and enormous problems in many Ukrainian citizens, in many local authorities, when these standards begin, do not let God apply. So I'm still paying attention to the authors, so let's postpone this law again, send it back to second reading. Maybe by now we're going to have a referendum and we're going to figure out what's the real point of view of Ukrainian citizens. We will really hear the organs of local self - government, the OTG, the district’s newly created councils, all those people who are now involved in land relations, in agriculture. And we're not going to take it under dictatorship.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u312	There is a 154 amendment to the vote of the People’s Deputy Lukasheva and Pauline. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:54:08]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 155 revisions. National Deputy Volosin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u313	Colleagues, well, about some of the images of someone from the opposition dragging something artificially forward. In fact, I think that here all people are experienced and intelligent in most, they know that the procedure of a certain delay in the adoption of drafts and speeches, borrowed directly from American parliamentary practice and introduced in the Senate was the very legendary George Washington, who in this way thought it was a means to satisfy passion. I want to remind you that in 1957. By the way, there's no less, we've got even more civil, there's still no time for speeches. In 1957, one of the senators spoke for 24 hours for 57 minutes and everyone was sitting there listening to him, and no decision was taken at that time. So I think you have to stop taking offense at us, just stop passing bills that you're artificially sifting without agreeing and finding compromises with the opposition. Then there will be no filibastering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u314	Thank you. There's a need to put this amendment to the vote, isn't there? Then I put to the vote 155 the amendment of the national deputy of Volosin and Slavicsky. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:55:38]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 156. Coltunovich, Zagradni. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u315	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Well, first of all, it's about popularizing the land of the people and the united territorial communities. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when we were looking at 2178-10 on the circulation of agricultural land, 450 local councils came to us, and we made appropriate decisions and appeals about the non-admission of the law. They represent 14 million voters. You have to pay attention to that. That's the first one. The other one. You also have to respond to sociological research by the Kyiv International Institute of Sociology, the Sociology Group "Raising", the Razumkova Centre, other sociological services that gave data to sociology that between 70 and 80 percent of Ukrainian citizens were opposed to the introduction of land circulation. I mean, when you want to have a discussion about the results of the work, anything else, I'm ready, I'm in the material, and we can discuss with you the results of your work in this room over a year and a half. And I'm talking to the chairman. Please continue the session for 15 minutes so that I can sound amendments 161 and 162. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u316	Thank you. Regrettably, this is the right, not the duty of a presiding officer, so I will do it as stipulated in the rules. 156 amendments to Coltunovich shall be put to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:57:20]] For-48 The decision is not taken. But your opinion is interesting. I think we're still facing more than one night session on this issue. That's why I'm asking for the next 157. People's representative of Crybaby, please. None. Next 158. Sphinx. None. 159th. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u317	Dear colleagues, this is a very important amendment. What's she talking about? Open the Constitution in an appropriate article – rural, rural city councils. Open the Elections Act, a united territorial community. Open the code - territorial communities: rural, rural, urban. A full variety of concepts and terms. Now look what you've done, Mr. Head. You cleaned up an article that had state control over land relations. I'm sure you did it on purpose. Because now the State Department, eventually restored, has the opportunity to stop equipment very quickly, one that goes all over Ukraine. I gave an example of Zaporozhye. Same in other areas. And now it's like they're going to get the land, and it's not there.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u318	It's on. Need a committee position? Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u319	Sergei Vladislavovich, I don't think these organs that you've mentioned stop as much as they participate in these devices themselves. So the logic of the law is absolutely right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u320	There is 159 amendments to the vote of the People’s Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:59:30.]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 160. Voloshin. [[B in m in s a l in]] One more minute. Guys, no. Hair, and we'll end up with that. Listen to Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u321	Dear Chairman, I also call you to humanism, I do not insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-16-m0.u322	Thank you. Then, dear colleagues, at this plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
