ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear colleagues, please prepare for electronic registration. I remind you that once the registration is started, it is necessary to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and hold it until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? Are you ready to register? Excuse me. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:02:18]] There are 215 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague of the National Deputy of Ukraine Mikolia Romanović Velichovich, "European Solidarity". Let's welcome him! [[Applause]] We wish you good health and continued progress in your work for the benefit of Ukraine! Dear colleagues, today is the day of the Sergeant of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. On the occasion of the festival, allow me to express my gratitude to all the sergeants for their devoted, responsible and professional service to the Ukrainian people! For courage and heroism in the struggle for Ukraine’s independence and territorial integrity! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, before we move on to the agenda, a statement came from two factions with a break and a replacement for the performance. I invite Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u3	Dear Ukrainians, an international group of Bellingcat journalists was investigated yesterday, confirming that every Ukrainian knows and corrects only the Office of the President. First. Ukraine has unique intelligence services that can plan and perform operations at the same level as the best Mossad special forces in the world, MI6, the FBI. The other one. Zelensky's government is built on a lie. 15 months ago, the President's Office, Zelensky and his Jermak personally lied to society that there was no "vagant" operation, that it wasn't a Ukrainian operation, betraying Ukrainian intelligence. The materials of the international investigation show that there are two things today: first, the downpour of the operation took place on Bank, and second, it's a national betrayal. And there are still many other issues in society that have been raised in this investigation. Tell me, please, how can it be that the scouts at the final stage of the operation come to report to the High Commander, and his secretary says the President doesn't have time? What did the president do then, drying or drinking beer in a restaurant? Please tell me, what right should Jeremiah give to the Ukrainian spies, what should they do? What right does he have to run Ukrainian intelligence? And it was in order to hide the lie that the TCN was created in this room -- the "ministers of the people" party, where only "ministers of the people" entered. And Mrs. Mariana worked here as a bleacher of the Bank to help bleach the lie. And you didn't give us the right to oppose the protection of our scouts and create a TCN. You've taken security to the scouts. You, half the servants, today you're with the guards and you're taking them to Burba, who's the bearer of sensitive information, the security guard, by failing even a vote at the request of Zelensky to give our scouts protection. What Does Opposition Require? First. We appeal to the law enforcement authorities to immediately initiate criminal investigations, as a minimum, according to the fact that the office manager of the President’s office, who works as vice president, has not been chosen, but he gives instructions to the Ukrainian special forces. The other one. To start an investigation, and on the second day after the collapse of the operation, the Ukrainian security forces released the "vagants". Who was behind this? Who is this mole that destroys Ukrainian intelligence? Third. Start investigating the fact of betrayal. Four. Immediately create a TSC based on the fact of the Wagnerians and interrogate all those present at the meeting where the special operations went down. And this TSK should create all factions, not just eight "ministers of the people." We thank the two trust groups and the future groups that have deviated from this TSN because they definitely don't want to after the end of the cadence.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, another statement has been made for a break with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Maxim Arkadyovich Bujanski. Please, Maxim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I am pleased to see that at least part of the faction of the opposition is in the hall and went to the rostrum. But I heard Mrs. Irina say, "What did the President do?".. That's a very interesting question. For example, what did the past president do during Ilowaysk? "Maybe he was at the gym," says Mrs. Irina. No! No! During the Ilovay tragedy, he had no time to go to the gym because he was buying coal in Panama, offshore, and he had no time for it. Dear colleagues, at last, when the report called Bellingcat came out yesterday, it finally became clear to everyone that it was a failed attempt to blackmail the Ukrainian authorities. And I don't understand those, even if they're in opposition to some outside attempt to blackmail the Ukrainian authorities. We're all Ukrainian citizens, we're all Ukrainians. And I think that Ukraine's interests here should be first of all, whoever it is, whether it's a representative of power or a representative of the opposition. Unfortunately, I'm forced to teach the patriotism of our colleagues, but that's true. Once again, our citizens are concerned about very different issues: coronaryism, war, the energy crisis. That's really what we should be doing. Enough political statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda. The list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today is given to you. Let's move on to their consideration. The first question is the second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian State Border Service Act on Improving the Order of Use and Application of Force, Military Engineering and Armament of the State Border Service (project registration number 5232). I invite you to the rostrum of a member of the National Security Committee and of Yuri Viktorovich Zdebski. Please, Yuri Viktorovich. Dear colleagues, would anyone insist on repairs? One for confirmation. No one will insist on their amendments? It will be. Please call the amendment number and then your report.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u7	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. I have an amendment at number eight. I'd like a representative of the committee to report the reason for her rejection. We suggest that article 48 be made available in the next edition. That within the limits of the authority, preventive measures, the examination of a person’s documents, the examination of a person, the surface check, the inspection, the halting of vehicles, and so forth. First of all, I would like to say that the "Paternity" team supports this bill, because in the context of the challenges facing Ukraine today, it is necessary to support the State Border Service and the border guards to give the powers they will exercise within the framework of the competence for the decent protection of the border of Ukraine. And I'm going to ask you to do the paperwork for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u8	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u9	Taking into account the comments made by the Chief Legal Authority, the committee processed the amendment in its editorial form and presented it as if. So your amendment is, in principle, to some extent. We rejected her in a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u10	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you, Mikhail Mikhailovich? Don't insist. Thank you. Dear colleagues, is anyone else going to demand an amendment? Grigory Mikolaiovich's mom, two minutes instead of your rights? Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, we should essentially work and, first of all, make quality legislation. And the second is so that we have the organs that are responsible for it to work effectively. Now, when we look at this law, we won't be supporting the Opposition Platform for Life. Why? Because I'm running an analogy with a weapon: there's no arms law, we're trying to do something. The law on border guards exists, but apart from the law, they still act by regulations, regulations, and everything else. It's from the statutes "pretty early" that everything is legal, but not to the end. Why not the end? There's no other organ, it can't be similar. For example, border guards in police stations where there is a Police Act. Why? Because the special forces in the police force that are being used give them responsibilities and legal reasons for their application. For example, this law allows border guards to use shockers in committing crimes. Can I ask you a question? We have, if the police have legal education there, everything else, border guards also have partly legal education. Who will appreciate these points when applying them? If there is an article 14 of the Police Act, there are 15, 15, and there is just permission. And once again, if this law is complemented by normative bases, do we make the law, and our positions disappear? No, they're not. Wouldn't it be easier to introduce and regulate the law, give them legal power, so there wouldn't be nonsense in court, the grounds for application, and accept changes, but normal changes, so there wasn't, or a position, or a law? Then we'd do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u12	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u13	So I don't understand what you're doing for confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u14	He doesn't make any adjustments, he just expressed his point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u15	It's very simple, honourable of our national deputies, a distinguished speaker. According to article 17 of the Constitution, the sequence of military formations that protect the state’s borders should be determined by law. This law conforms to the requirements of article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u16	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Grigory Mikolaiovich, one more minute, please. We agreed it was the last two minutes. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u17	Honorable Reporter of the Bill! The first is that if you ask for an amendment and you don't hear what I'm talking about from the beginning, you have to remember. I took two minutes instead of doing all the editing, once. If you say "determined by law," I refer to the citizens of Ukraine, let them take the positions that are currently in force, act, and make and compare with this bill that you are introducing. You're not changing or adding anything, but you're giving the authority to use one or the other means that will then create chaos: (a) in their application, and (b) in their acquisition, you know, in order to buy these shockers. If you're saying that you only want to regulate the law, say here from the rostrum that there will be no position. And so for the time being there is a position, there is a law. You're passing it on to the law, and you're still in position. Just like you do in reform. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, who else will report? Anyone else will insist on their amendments? Nobody. There's another amendment they want to make for confirmation. The word is given to the national deputy Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I urge you all to support this bill. He will really help the State’s Foreign Service, the military during the course of his ministry. But I am addressing the National Security and Defence Committee. Dear colleagues, please stop copying standards that do not fall within the scope of your committee, for which you are not responsible. You've been rewriting everything, trying to re-arrange the National Guard, now the State Border Service. There's a professional committee on law enforcement, and we have to do it, study it, and give it normal professional standards. That's why I'm calling attention to this, and I'm calling on my esteemed colleagues to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u20	So you don't insist that we vote for the 85th amendment? Alexander Sergiyovich, you do not insist that.? Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed, we move on to a decision. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal of the committee to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Border Service of Ukraine on improving the order of use and application of measures of coercion, military engineering and the special composition of the Ukrainian State Border Service (project number 5232). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:18:09]] For 271 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. The next question that we're going to. This is the first reading of Bill 4197, 4197-1, 4197-d is a draft of the Wood Market Act. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Then I'm going to make an offer to consider this issue with a reduced procedure, and we need to get 150 votes. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:18:59]] For 216 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Borisovich Matusevich. Please, Alexander Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u21	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished fellow MPs, respected woodworking men of Ukraine! Today the Supreme Council is finally hearing the Wood Market Act. A number of working groups were held, numerous commissions on which the bill was drafted. What does this bill offer? The bill will put a stop to the discussions on the wood market in Ukraine. This bill will allow local producers to have long-term contracts on which they will work, allowing local businesses to invest in money and to have confidence that they will work. The bill is designed to create a system model for regulating the wood market by establishing at the legislative level the only approaches for all market participants, by using information and telecommunications systems to facilitate access to the wood market, by dividing and empowering executive authorities to regulate the wood market. The bill's entry into force will have a positive impact on Ukraine's economy, activate the wood market, organize it, create conditions for stable raw materials for wood-processing enterprises and good-faith competition, reduce corruption in the field, contribute to the efficient use of forest resources, increase production and export of high-cost goods. Dear colleagues, ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u22	Thank you, Alexander Borisovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Roxolani Andriyovni Podlasi. Please, Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! You can talk about the advantages of an alternative bill for a long time, but today, as a committee, we're going to propose to vote on a finalized 4197-d wood market project. And as the author of the alternative project, I fully support the text that the Committee on Economic Development adopted yesterday. Bill 4197-d proposes a transparent and accountable system for tracking certification and selling wood. In doing so, the committee invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to exclude the rule of cancelling the moratorium on exports of Ukrainian wood. We are in this room and in this committee completely alone in seeing that the export of forests from Ukraine today is unacceptable. And even though our international partners insist on abolishing the moratorium and implementing the decision of arbitration, the task of the government today is to explain why Ukrainian forests need protection. A trade committee will be held in Brussels on Monday, where the issue of arbitration is already in order. And during the meeting, our delegation will present its vision of this issue and how we will make a decision. The wood market is strategically important: 15 million cubic meters of wood sold to commercial buyers are several billion dollars of income for logging and commercial enterprises. And in recent months our faction's deputies have received a lot of alarming signals about what. And from the producers, and from the wood processors, that the wood market situation is getting worse, and we need new transparent rules for this market. Therefore, please support the committee bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u24	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Economic Development Committee, Dmitri Andrievich Natalusi. Please, Dmitri Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u25	My colleagues, congratulations! Let's get right to it. We have an elephant in a room called a moratorium. As of today, I can make it absolutely clear and publicly that yesterday, at my meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Economic Development, I voted in favour of the final text before the first reading, according to which paragraph on the withdrawal of the moratorium is deleted from the text of the bill. That means it's real. [[B in m in s a l in]] That, in fact, in that bill that will be adopted, there will be no paragraph on knowledge of the moratorium. This is my colleagues' position, this is my official position, this is pure mathematics, my colleague. Because since 2016, when a moratorium on the export of roundwood has been in effect, we have an index of investment in woodworking that has increased by 88 percent. Colleagues, this is an absolute benefit to our economy. I'll tell you more, in Glasgow at the United Nations Climate Change Conference, the first statement from which the forum opened was to publicly promise the world by 2030 to end deforestation. That is, 100 countries in which 85 percent of all the world’s forests grow are publicly promised to end their deforestation by 2030. Ukraine does not have the moral right to risk its own forests, its Carpathians, and its resources, by which we produce oxygen and by which we breathe. So once again, this law is aimed exclusively at a settlement, a civilized settlement of the wood market, but it leaves a moratorium in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u26	Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. Dear colleagues, I understand there is a need to discuss this bill. Please sign up: two in, two in. I'd like to remind you that the recording is being conducted. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? I'm sorry. Excuse me, stop the recording. Two minutes from the committee. It's just that I thought you'd done it before. Okay. Please, two more minutes from the committee, then let's move on to the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have to read you formally and informally under the transcript so that no one has any doubts or speculation in the future. As a result of the discussion, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, decided to submit a bill (registration number 4197, 4197-1, 4197-d) for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to recommend a bill (registration number 4197-d) to be adopted on the basis of section VIII, paragraph 8, “To the End and Transitional Positions”. This is to admit that the Ukrainian Act on the Specificities of State Regulation for the Activities of Entrepreneurs in the Realisation and Export of Timber (the 2006 Report of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, No2-3, article 34 with the following changes) has become effective. And Bills 4197, 4197-1 respectively, reject. That's what we're talking about, this is the point about removing the moratorium on the exports of roundwood, and we've ruled out in the committee's decision. That is why it is proposed to vote. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u28	Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. Now, if you'd like to sign up: two for, two for, no, for discussion. Dear colleagues, don't raise your hands. The entry is executed by clicking on the button. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vátrovitch Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity". I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] I apologize, so there was a vote. I'm sorry. The word is given to Bragar Eugen Vadimovich, the political party "Serve of the People". I haven't been able to update myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u29	Please pass the word to Kowalczuk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u30	Alexander Kowalczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u31	Alexander Kowalczuk, "Slut of the People" faction, Equinox. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking my colleagues from the Economic, Environmental Committee, representatives of the government who have been working on this complex bill for over a year, the text of which has changed. And in my opinion, and in the opinion of experts working in this environment today, in the woodworking environment, this bill has become much better. Of course, you and I will have the opportunity to work on it and make it even better, and to hear business and people between the first and second readings that we will do. But today, when we talk to representatives of a variety of businesses from a small woodshed to a large enterprise that produces a virtually ready stove for the furniture industry, we understand one thing: They are all united by one big problem. To this day, there were no transparent rules in the country that were common to all. Somehow someone got a preference, someone didn't get to pick out all that quota, the wood that they won at the auction. Some were presented with additional conditions to obtain what was honestly won at the competition. And those phone calls, the numbers that we got from taxpayers, from companies that create jobs with Ukrainian and foreign capital, were only about one thing: set transparent rules, we fill the budget, we create jobs, we create decent working conditions, and we continue to develop this huge potential field. Only one figure, respected colleagues. Ukraine exports furniture for 500 million and neighbouring Poland for 12 billion. Let's create transparent conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u32	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Synth of Oleg Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u34	Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u35	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! "European Solidarity" will vote in favour of the bill. And this decision that we made at the committee meeting corresponds absolutely to the standards with which we can go to the trade committee tomorrow in Brussels to stand up for Ukraine. The second is that the project proposes to create a normative basis for the functioning of the wood market, certification and machinery. This is very important. The second is the proposal to establish the general market position at the legislative level, and the main one is the legal definition. And the third position is to regulate the information supply of the market using appropriate information systems. At the same time, I want to say that when I speak to the Committee on European Integration, the bill does not conflict with European laws, but it needs some work between the first and the second readings. When you look at the conclusion in terms of budgeting, there are two problems. The first problem is that you have to invest money. But the benefit of the second problem is that we're going to get this money even with the added value. At the same time, I would like to say that the completed 4197 at the committee level has an appropriate advantage over all the other bills, and I ask that some warnings and observations will be withdrawn between the first and the second readings, please support this bill, Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u36	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u37	Galina Vasilchenko, “Justice. ” Please give my word to my colleague Jaroslav Rušišin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u38	Please, Jaroslav Ruššin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u39	Jaroslav Ruššin, Lviv, “Justice. ” Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to warn the optimists that this bill does not solve the issue of illegal logging of our forests, but it does create economical circumstantial grounds for the development of legitimate business, for the removal of operators of this market to the legal plane. We've sent it to everyone we know, the so-called steakholders who are going to eat this bill in their daily practice, and they've given us a favorable, sometimes with some comments, feedback on the adoption of this bill. It was these proposals and these comments that were reflected in the amended bill. And that's why we don't have this unity, at least on the committee, for the adoption of this bill. And I believe that this bill will contribute to the development of our woodworking industry, as well as to the increase in exports of high value-added goods to Europe and the world. We urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill and we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u40	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Krachod Annie Constantineni, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Victor Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u42	Victor Vasilovich Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u43	Honourable Ruslan Alexiyovich, honourable colleagues, in fact, the main purpose of this bill, which was and will be, and a whole series of bills that have also tried to pass through this hall, is to cancel the moratorium on the production of the Ukrainian forest and to export it. I think the whole country has been watching for several years, as we are urged by all foreign advisors, consultants, embassies and other interested persons to cut out the Ukrainian forest and take it abroad very quickly. Now we've been told from the rostrum that the committee will remove this rule from this bill and we'll go over it. But as you continue to read this bill, then, if this rule is removed, it is essentially no longer regulated. We're just making legislative spam. And we're essentially trying to pretend that we're looking at something, looking at it, and so on. One question is, Why are you doing this? If you're honest about cleaning up this rule, take down the law and move on. And if you're trying to figure out another mechanism between the first and the second reading, how do you put something back in there, it's not going to work. Stop trading the country, boys. For some reason, in other countries that strongly advise us to do so, no one cuts out their forest or transports it to Ukraine for processing. And we've been given instructions, cut out the tears, get out, cancel this rule. Try selling to Europe or other countries that advise us today, our Ukrainian industrial equipment, our Ukrainian products. 20 obstacles are put in place to prevent us from entering our market. And we're doing everything we can to run them here, and we don't get anything in reverse. So let's make this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u44	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u45	Thank you. My dear colleagues, as a shepherd, I should probably thank you now for the fact that in this law, which has been passed under the summit of Ukraine - the EU, in order to show there that it is not clear that the moratorium has nevertheless been extended. They didn't move the moratorium on roundwood exports. This could be our victory today. Indeed, we would welcome each other. But what are you doing further away from this law? In fact, it stimulates further uncontrolled deforestation, deforestation, and other rare species. So please refrain from voting. And I want to thank today and my party friends, and I want to thank the opposition that didn't allow the moratorium to continue with the roundwood. But you have to take all the schemes that allow that. And this law can promote it. So please don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. After that, Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. And let's go to the vote. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u47	Sobolje, Fatherland. The Fatherland faction will not support this bill for a number of reasons. First reason. If you wanted to rule out the question of another withdrawal of the moratorium, you had to transpose a bill in which it should have been clearly fixed. And the formulation, when the committee supports this on second reading, is not the norm. And so now we're going to actually vote for a bill that has this rule. The other one. In fact, this bill does not deal with the issue of illegal cutting and at the same time does not address the issue of sanitation. So our faction will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u48	Please, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u49	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, in the end, the authorities heard the opposition, which throughout the country said that a moratorium on roundwood could not be recorded. And that makes it possible today to develop economically in Ukraine in any field. What's happening in Ukraine, what's being cut out in Ukraine, what's going on up in Ukraine, has to be processed in Ukraine, and it's going to have a full impact on the economy, and it's going to be able to fill the Ukrainian budget. So I'd like you to pay attention to both energy and all sectors. We also demand that a temporary commission of inquiry be made to review all illegal cuts in Ukraine, because the forest is the lungs of our country and allows us today to stay away from the great warming that is in the world. So take another look at the TSK, which has already passed, which has been operating in the Luhansk region in forest fires.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. People's deputies please take their seats. We'll make our decisions. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt, on the basis of the Committee's proposals, the draft Wood Market Act (registration number of bill 4197-d). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:40:51]] For 276 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Yes, dear fellows, let's move on. Next bill, number 3663. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance" (new edition) and other legislative acts of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I understand there is a need to discuss it, so I would like to vote in favour of the proposal to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:41:41]] For 246 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikhail Mikolaiovich Papiev. Please, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u51	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! The situation today at the Social Insurance Fund needs the intervention of Ukrainian national deputies. What do I mean? See, today, the Social Insurance Fund has a debt that has never existed: hospital letter debt — over two months, fixed debt — for more than two months. And it's paradoxical that the fund can't respond to these problems today, because the Fund's government can't get together for more than a half year, the powers of the government, they stopped in April of this year. Similarly today, insured persons have become hostages of this fund’s inaction. So our citizens of Ukraine who have paid contributions to this Social Insurance Fund can't get the right funds for the insurance. So today, pregnant women are suffering, today, young mothers are suffering from this fund today, all the citizens who went to the hospital, and in COVID conditions, it's just a violent nuisance. That is why when we decided in our own time to unite the temporary loss of employment fund and the production accident fund, the trade unions shouted that they were against the fact that this would make the situation worse. Time has shown that we have done exactly what is right. It is illogical when there is only one social contribution and three funds administer it. It is absolutely logical to do as in Europe, as in Germany, that is, the only social contribution, is the sole administrator of this contribution, and there are payouts so that people today do not run on officials and expect their own funds, but rather to bring public services closer to people, and so that they can get their money at the right time. It's a totally social law, it's on today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u52	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. The co-reporter is invited to the floor, the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights, Mikhailo Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u53	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting on December 2, 2020, the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights reviewed the draft Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance for the Authorization of People’s Deputies, Michael Papiev. The bill proposes, as the author said, a merger of the Social Insurance Fund with the Ukrainian Pension Fund. While reviewing the bill, members of the committee supported his idea in some ways. It's the building of a single modern information system for social insurance, a reduction in administrative costs, and a modernization of distinguished social security funds, and the creation of a pensionable modern administration. However, members of the Committee made a number of comments, pointed out that the provisions of the bill needed to be worked out in line with the principle of legal certainty and the removal of a number of legal commissions. There's also an observation by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. When we held working group meetings, we also made a statement by the Ministry of Social Policy, which is not supported by such a bill. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine makes a number of comments. The Ministry of Finance believes that the bill needs to be worked out. And what surprised us is that the Pension Fund of Ukraine reports that the bill's position needs to be worked out in line with the principle of legal uncertainty. However, by a majority of votes, the committee recommended that the Supreme Council approve the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u54	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss this bill, as I understand it. Please sign up: two for, two for. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Petovci Vasil Vasil Vasilovich, the MP's group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u55	Please give it to Shah.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u56	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u57	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, the Trust Group will support this bill, which is important for people's insurance. And please tell me, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev spoke for pregnant mothers, he said that there are defenseless levels of the population today. To us in the reception room, and we have 26 in the Luhansk region every day. These are single mothers, of whom Kabmin has made payments to single mothers. I know exactly how to get into trouble when I was a child with a mother by apartment, and when no one else is helping except the state. At that time the State was helping, and today the State is not helping. Where to knock, and where to guard against authority? People ask, from the authorities, to be insured. Because there are no payments to mining families again, there are 2.5 billion dollars. Please tell me where to go, where to run people? Next. Where did the Afghans who then defended themselves protect our nation today? Where do the black people go? There are 108,000 people left who not only defended Ukraine, but the whole world. Where do we go today and knock where we can't protect ourselves from the authorities of the military today who can't get social benefits? No housing for the military is being built today. Where do we run and knock people in whose offices today to give social guarantees that are clearly laid down in the Constitution? Where can we feed people? Where can I give jobs? Where do they go? Where Can I Protect Myself From Authority Today?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u58	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Bragar Evgen Vadimovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u59	Bragar Eugenius, Servant of the People. Please pass the word Mikishi Dmitri from my faction as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u60	Please, Dmitri Mikisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u61	Good afternoon, colleagues! In Ukraine, there are two main funds that pay pensions and other social benefits: the Pension Fund and the Social Insurance Fund. According to its essence and algorithm, these payments are exactly, if you'll excuse the tautology, identical. It is therefore perfectly logical that we propose that this bill unite the structures of the Pension Fund and the Social Insurance Fund. Moreover, the bill proposes that each social pay be paid its share of the only social contribution. And it is this unified structure that will effectively administer this very algorithm. So I, my colleagues, sincerely ask you to support this bill, but it's the first reading. Any other comments and suggestions we can work between the first and the second readings. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u62	Thank you. The word is given to Mother Grigori Mikolaiovich, Ukrainian National Deputy, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u63	Please pass the word to Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u64	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again I'd like to support this bill, because it's not just in time, it's urgent today. In addition, if the committee could use the 116 article of the Rules as part of the first part, we could do a completely normal thing: unite and join the Ukrainian Unemployment Fund by making it available to the State Employment Service. Then we would have completed the reform of the social insurance system. Then we wouldn't have duplicated the functions. At that time, we would not have had these bureaucratic barriers that our citizens face on a daily basis. And then we would have a logically built system that is aimed at people that is close to people. Dear colleagues, when they claim, and this is especially "decided" by professional associations, because they take away the "beneath" on the snag, on the gifts, and on the other hand. So I would like to say that today the self-reliance of this fund is being preserved because the pension fund is governed by the principles of tripartiteism. The foundation includes representatives of the State, employers, and professional associations. That is, all European commitments and conventions of the International Labour Organization are preserved. But the main thing is that this law simplifies the lives of insured people, and today we have people in the hospital who can get money at the right time. Women who are in need of specifics today will receive at the proper time rather than receive when the child is six months old. Dear colleagues, let's work on this law, it's very important, I'm asking you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u66	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich, faction of the Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u67	Mikhailo Tsimbaluk "The Fatherland." I had previously represented a committee from this rostrum, so I sounded what was approved at the committee meeting. And now, Mikhailo Cimbaluk, the Fatherland faction, I express the position of our team and the experts who have considered this bill, we, in the working group together with the representatives of the trade unions, employers, with representatives of the ministries and central authorities of the executive branch and also the Pension Fund. The authors or the author are right to improve the work of the Insurance Fund. But is that the way? I agree with the author that maybe you can review the job and the Employment Center and the Unemployment Fund, because there's really a problem today with the delay in hospital payments, in other insurance cases. But will this bill solve the problem? Of course not. Is the Pension Fund Ready Today? It's not just money to issue, it's got to be checked out by these insurance cases, it's got to be checked by these hospitals. Of course not. We're here to reduce administrative costs, but not in this way. This bill will not solve the problem. Because of this, the "Fatherland" team will not vote in such an editorial, and we ask the session room not to support this bill, to return it to the author for further work and together, I stress, with the central executive authorities that produce the policy in this direction, to produce the bill that will solve the problem, not create it. Definitely against the union, employers who are co-founders of the foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u68	The word is given to the national deputy of Hončarenko Alexiyyovich, the faction of "European Solidarity". He will be followed by Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u69	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Friends, of course, social policy is question number one in a state that counts as the poorest in Europe, and where people, in fact millions of people, survive rather than live. And we should pay much more attention to it, and the laws should not be like this, because unfortunately it doesn't answer the questions that there are, and the needs that there are. But, guys, you know, when we talk about social policy in our country, look what happens to us today with the same cod, when the President comes out and says, "Friends, we'll give you a thousand bracelets, but only on Pilates, gyms, theaters and planes." Well, I see a grandmother in a Ukrainian village who took a thousand and went to a Pilates who took a thousand and flew on a plane to listen to a concert. So why don't you just give this thousand tickets to 95 Quarters straight? I'm offering you that kind of social policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u70	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, the Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u71	Dear Ukrainians! It's been a long time since I've heard or seen such brilliant drafts in this Parliament. Think about it: they want to cancel 100 percent of the average wage when calculating a person's disability for members of the Humanitarian Revolution, for all those who are rehabilitated by the Communist Repression Victims Act; they want to cancel your right in case of temporary disability to sanatorium treatment and shorten the deadline for submitting this disability from 12 months to a month. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You are invited by our MP's Party for the Future, Fatherland. And I want to see very much how this opposition faction of OPCW votes for the initiative of their colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's only one way out of this procedure. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, factions and groups are speaking -- that's the rule. Except from procedure, 1 per minute. Well, just out of procedure, Mrs. Greeb. Mushroom National Deputy, please, 1 minute out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u73	It's not going to work, but what I'm trying to say is that the miners' regressors have just called and they have clearly opposed the adoption of this law. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies please take their seats. I am betting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Public Compulsory State Social Insurance (new edition) and other legislative acts of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:59:04]] For 231 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Let's move on. The next bill, 5289, is a draft law amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act on the simplification of the organization and procedures of purchases by rural, rural and urban communities. Dear colleagues, I understand that there will be a need to discuss this bill, so I propose that we consider it as a reduced procedure. To do that, we need 150 votes. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[10:59:59:59]] For 246 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine Boris Viktorovich Prijedzák. Please, Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u75	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Bill 5289. The initiative envisages expanding the capacity of the community to purchase goods and services to meet the needs of the population quickly and to provide education and health care. The new rules of public procurement that worked in Ukraine more than a year ago, along with the obvious positive, created significant inconveniences in the exercise of proper authority by the executive authorities of the territorial communities. Such purchases should ensure the uninterrupted functioning of such important social facilities as educational and medical facilities as schools, kindergartens, hospitals, and hospitals. What are we talking about? This is about the acquisition of electricity, natural gas, fuel-oil materials and food for the needs of the community. In the event of the untimely provision of social goods and services, their proper functioning is impossible and has a very negative impact on the community’s viability. In this way, obstacles will be removed for local self-governance authorities to quickly perform their functions to meet the needs of the community to receive such important social services. I'm from the rostrum now, and I want to address every major present here in this room. Those who work with local authorities clearly know that communities cannot buy the goods needed for activities. The threshold of 50,000 is a little out of date, and it needs to be lifted.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u76	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Economic Development Committee subcommittee, Alexia Vasilovich Movcana. Natalia will be. Committee head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor. The Committee on Economic Development, at our meeting on 12 April 2021, in the video conference mode, reviewed the Ukrainian People's Deputies' Bill 5289 on simplifying the organization and conducting procedures for purchasing rural, rural, urban and territorial communities and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. According to members of the committee, the adoption of the bill would allow local communities to simplify procedures for the rapid purchase of goods and certain services needed to ensure the functioning of their social sphere and allow communities to conduct purchases exclusively provided by the bill of goods and services without passing a simplified public procurement procedure, i.e. to purchase directly from the manufacturer or supplier. This, in turn, will contribute to the development of local communities, increase social support in the region, and ensure a decent standard of living for citizens. So the question is that it's about simplifying purchases just for the local authorities. And the language goes, I want to focus on that, exclusively on low-priced or fast-moving goods. It's about food, about fuel-oil materials, about natural gas and electricity. That is, the most important things that no community can afford. As my colleague, Mr. Adjective, has already pointed out, this is certainly necessary for hospitals and schools and kindergartens and other institutions that care about the population. That's why we want to give the opportunity, more specifically, the drafters of the bill want to enable communities to more effectively implement their purchasing activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand there is a need to discuss this bill. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Volodymyrovich Shahov, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u79	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". I give the word to Bacunca Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u80	Paul Andriovich Bakunec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u81	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, a moment of your attention! I'm stressing to you that the city head or the head of the community is an extremely difficult job. He needs to run all the spheres in the territory -- culture and education, and utilities, and hospitals, and the sword of Damocles hangs over him every day. God forbid, he's not gonna make that kind of purchase after 50,000. And if it did, what goods would they bring from another region or from another part of the country? That's a big problem. Please take a step to meet the newly created communities, draw this tip from a train that cannot drive. It's nonsense to buy products for the ProZorro system of 50,000. The bill only proposes for five groups of goods: these are for products, these are for gas, these are for electricity, these are for the transport of schoolchildren to increase the possibility of making contracts to 200,000 direct contacts. This will help not only the city councils, but you will help not only the heads, you will help the children get good nutrition, because the head is responsible; you will help the leaders of gardens, schools, hospitals provide gas, electricity, and provide a lift for the children who are learning. Please don't pay attention to allegations from public organizations that it's some kind of wrong law. It's a good law, it's the right law, and I'm asking you to support it in the hall. You will really help your communities to develop more properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u82	Please, National Deputy Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u83	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Please give the floor to colleague Evtushka Sergio Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u84	Sergei Mikolaiovich Eutuszk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u85	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, a venerable presidency, dear Ukrainians! The Fatherland faction has studied this bill very carefully, and we want to say that the authors have very clearly prescribed the problems that local governments and other money managers are facing today. So the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill in the first reading and we'll be preparing the papers. What exactly are some of the clients involved in the bill? Of course, they are government authorities, local self - government bodies, as well as the Pension Fund, social insurance agencies, businesses, institutions, organizations, and their associations that serve the territorial communities, as well as the strength of our structures. What is happening to local self - government today? As a person who has administrative experience as chief executive and in the service of local self-government, and in the executive branch of government, I can say that today, as the author has said, not only are the inconveniences created in the work and management of these management chains, but the challenges that are dictated by price increases, especially at the end of the year, when the money managers, the principal money managers are provided according to. More faithfully, they are obliged under the budget code to carry out all procedures immediately. So the procedure simplifies management allows you to adjust the costs quickly, without any procedures, in the parameters that this author proposes. Dear colleagues, we vote, we support local authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u86	The word is given to the Ukrainian People's Deputy of the City of Jury Ivanovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u87	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Suffrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u88	Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u89	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. On the one hand, we certainly need to support local communities. And in the first reading, we do not deny the adoption of this law. On the other hand, we understand that purchasing control has to be ensured. But we do not want the control of local councils, as stated in this and the following law, to be given to the superior councils. If we say that the local council is independent, this is really self-government, then they have, on the one hand, freedom to introduce this principle. On the other hand, they must be held accountable, but this responsibility must be established in court rather than in court, excuse me, governor or governor. We are firmly opposed to ensuring some kind of control in this activity. Responsibility should be with local councils before the law, not before the governor. First question. Today, of course, this is important. But, dear colleagues, yesterday there was a public report that the World Health Organization pointed out that Ukraine is the only country in the world to see an increase in the death toll of COVID. Please tell me, how could that be?Oh, my God! How much do we hear that we've won, that we have the best indicators? And we're already told by all the world-class experts that you're in trouble to save people. We demand responsibility from the authorities. Establishment of a Council coordination centre to protect our citizens from the consequences of the pandemic. If it's not power.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u90	The word is given to the national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović. He will be followed by a national MP and a Cuban national deputy. And then. I see, and Irina Konstankevitch. And then we're going to go to the vote. Please, Jurchishin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, appeals to local authorities are, of course, fine, but the bill is actually prescribed in such a way that it actually removes the need for direct purchases from all authorities. I don't know if it's a mistake, or whether it's a conscious opportunity to take out more than 43 billion budget funds, with economies worth over 4 billion. And in this case, the costs that can be used to combat SOVID are once again the same local authorities, in order to ensure that our country's development is so complex, it's just going to come about. In this case, it's a very strange position for me to be in a profile committee that didn't actually count the substantial corruption risk, where inequitable regulation ensures that the purchases are not limited to local authorities. Should ProZorro be improved with regard to purchasing local authorities? I guess so. Is it necessary to create holes? No, of course not. Who noticed these holes? I'm primarily talking to representatives of the majority. Your Ministry of Finance, your Ministry of Economics, has noticed the National Anti-Corruption Agency. Someone here appealed that they were public organizations. No, these are the authorities that now see that someone wants to pollinate 4 billion dollars at the time of SOVID and crisis. And now the profile committee is consecrating it with its decisions. Friends, this law needs to be broken and really done to improve purchases for local authorities. ProZorro will only help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u92	I'd like to invite you to the speech of the Ukrainian National MP, the "Serve of the People" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u93	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The bill makes simplified purchases optional for most of the customers. The title of the bill does not correspond to its substance, and the authors seem to have refused to use simplified purchases for some types of local community purchases. However, the proposed changes actually allow all customers to make contracts directly, instead of conducting simplified purchases, such a right will be granted to all public authorities and local governments, social insurance agencies and some legal persons. In other words, the bill states that all purchases of between 50,000 and one and a half million can be made without the application of legal and transparent procedures and translated into direct contracts. Dear colleagues, I urge everyone not to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u94	The word is given to the National Deputy Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u95	Dear Mr. Head, I understand the arguments of the author of Alien Boris, who often is, where small things are not expensive and need to be bought quickly. But we should also remember that the same goods or services for a small town may be small purchases, and for a district center it is a considerable expense. I understand and I don't idealize the purchasing system today, and I realize that it's far from perfect, and at every committee meeting, we have a change in that law. The system needs, on the one hand, experience of knowledge, and, on the other hand, it is not perfect and it raises the question of what needs to be changed and improved. If between the first and the second readings are taken away from the risks that speakers are talking about, then we will make decisions about.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u96	The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Konstankević Irina Miroslavni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u97	Irina Konstanovic, 23th constituency, Party for the Future. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to the mayoral deputies, to those major MPs who are actually working, who are in the constituencies that are in the districts, and who know exactly what the problem with purchasing is, it exists. And this bill, it's called life. This purchase problem, which is created, can be solved by the bill. We urge everyone to support this proposal, this initiative because rural, rural and urban communities demand it. If we want to solve the problems of education in the community, health care, cultural and social, please support the bill. You can't buy books in the library because you have to run them through ProZorro. Two computers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt a draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act on the simplification of the organisation and the conduct of procedures for the purchase of rural, rural and urban communities (project registration number 5289). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready. Please vote. [[11:19:07]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I bet. Show the factions, please. My next suggestion is to return the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work so that he can take into account all the proposals he has discussed. So I am proposing that the subject of the legislative initiative should be returned to the draft Law on Amendments to Article 3 of the Law. [[B in m in s a l in]] See, first this goes back to work and then again first. I can do it again first. Let's do it again first, okay. Then I would like to refer to the Committee for a re-reading of the draft Act amending article 3 of the Law on Public Procurement on the Simplification of the Organization and the conduct of procedures, which was purchased by rural, village and local communities (registration No. 5289). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:20:25]] For 256 Decision taken. The bill is sent for re-reading. Let's move on, dear fellows. The following Bill 6293 is a draft of the Act amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement on Prevention and Dissemination of Coronary Disease (project registration number 6293). Is there a need to discuss this project? Yes. So I'm going to propose that we consider this bill with a reduced procedure, and we need to get 150 votes. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:21:16]] For 236 Decision taken. I'd like to have a word with you. [[B in m in s a l in]] We won't vote, my friends. The decision is made. Please note, two rows have been knocked out, and the vote has been voted out, so that this is not in the vote. Dear colleagues, I invite the Vice-President of the Committee for Economic Development of Podlas Roxolan Andriyevn. I mean, you're both from the authors, and from the committee, right, Roxolano Andriyevno? Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, on November 4th, we have allocated 800 billion dollars to you at an oxygen station in a cod hospital, of which 600 million were at the station itself and 150 million were to be designed and installed. To be able to buy and install these stations in 2021, purchases have to be made on a simplified basis. I'll remind you that the simplified procedure does not last more than 10 days and does not provide for an accusation. And in a critical situation today with the number of COVID patients, and the situation with the filling of hospitals, we can't delay a second. So the bill proposes temporarily, for a period of quarantine established by the Cabinet of Ministers, to allow hospitals and anyone who purchases oxygen stations for cod doctors to do so on a simplified procedure. And the committee recommended that the bill should be voted on as a basis and as a whole. I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u100	Thank you, Rocsolana Andrienne. Dear colleagues, there is a need for discussion. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kovalchuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u101	Please pass the word to Kisilev Dmitry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u102	Please, Dmitri Kisilevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! This is an important bill that supports our country's fight against COVID, and it simplifies the purchase of the positions that Ukrainian doctors need. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. To shorten my time, I will no longer speak. It's an important and brief bill, we approved it yesterday by the committee, we need to support it in the hall and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u104	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national MP Konstanovic Irina Miroslavovni, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u105	The MP's Party for the Future, of course, will support this bill, and we think that there should be a lot more of these initiatives, and I'll explain why. We just heard in the hall that we have the highest lethality for coronary patients. So I would like you, my dear deputies, to inform you that it is not just such a group of patients that we have the highest mortality rate. Whatever group of diseases we take, we have the highest mortality rate in the world, and oncological mortality, and child mortality. Because we have a huge medical problem, we need to save it. So let us adopt the bill and move on to the fundamental support of the health sector in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u106	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, the provision of oxygen-resistant hospitals is a top priority today. And I'm going to remind you that it's European Solidarity, along with the Voice, that other opposition factions have assembled an emergency session to get 800 million dollars out of power at the oxygen station. That's what the authorities were supposed to do two years ago. And today, when we're faced with the threat of possible power failures, it's imperative that we look at the problem of hospital oxygen in general. It is vital that all support hospitals in district and district centers are now connected to oxygen stations. It is clear that we will support this bill, and we generally believe that Parliament should be more involved in medical matters, in helping Ukraine today to overcome the effects of the coronavirus. And in this context, populist statements of authority are very dangerous. Now Greensky has given hope to the Ukrainians that everyone who has been vaccinated will receive a thousand dollars. You know, once upon a time, this "green thing" meant a thousand dollars. And now the "green piece" is this "Vevin thousand," which, it turns out, not every Ukrainian will get, but only one who will be vaccinated on December 19th, and only one who gets it with inanimate money will get it, but on some Acts card. Friends, yeah, and you know half the country has telephones? Did you know that people spent their money often on drugs and oxygen? And today they won't even be able to cover this "wavo thousand" expenses because you owe them, in fact, to the villages to do Pilates or to buy tickets for 95 blocks. We demand that this money be monetized and that everyone be able to spend it as they see fit — for medicine, for tests, for utilities, for treatment. And fulfill your obligation to pay the doctors. 300 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u108	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputies, Bilozoz Larissa Mikolayovni, the MPs' group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, the "Trust" MP will support this bill. In fact, we recently adopted my bill, which, after all, introduced simplified cadaver shopping into the tender, because there is nothing as permanent as temporary. We know that almost a year was spent in a country without tenders. It's been 125,000 procedures for 35 billion dollars. We know that there were so many corrupt things. Of course, the law enforcement authorities failed. To this day, we have had to do it again. Instead of giving up the money at the beginning of the year and conducting tenders normally, we're doing good work again at the last minute, trying to introduce a simplified procedure. It's good that it's simplified, not direct contracts, it's good because it's going to be a tender. But on the other hand, we have to understand that even the 800 million voted by the Supreme Council at the oxygen station cannot be conquered by the end of the year. I urge you to make these costs transitional. Even today, contractors say we can't handle this kind of volume, the equipment has to wait three or four months. So just so you know, all of these funds that we've allocated, they're not going to be spent this year, so let me go to the budget committee, let's make them transitional. And we also have to understand that these oxygen stations at this moment are not working, and almost a percent of 90 are not working. That's why we're here. I've got this kind of rain: we pulled it to the last moment this year. So the government is pulling, the Ministry of Health is thinking about it at the end of the year, and the MPs are going to save them, you know, with the kind of bills that it actually has. This work was to be done by the government, not by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u110	The word is given to National Deputy Sowsun Inni Romanovni, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u111	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, of course, it is very good that Parliament is finally dealing with oxygen issues today. I'm very sorry that, personally, my colleagues at Voice, from other opposition factions, I've had to spend six months trying to get the authorities to pay attention to the lack of oxygen in Ukrainian hospitals. This was worth many lives, many of the experiences of Ukrainian citizens. Now it's very good that we're adopting this law. But I would also like more than the Supreme Council to do its part in doing the same. Now I'm talking to my colleagues first of all from the majority. I'm asking you to write a report to the Health Minister of Laszko and ask him why so far, two weeks after we passed the law on the allocation of money at the oxygen station, not the order of use of funds? There have been two meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers since then, and there is still no way to use the funds. If this is the way the government works, no best laws that parliament adopts will ever be enforced.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u112	The word is given to the Royal Natalia Yuriovna, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, well, it's a miracle that for the first time in this autumn pandemic in Parliament, we started to look at legislation to support doctors today, to simplify local government procedures and to support people. But, Your Honor, you do understand very well that even if there's a shorter procedure for buying oxygen, it's not going to solve today's problem that's affecting the country, because today there's a debt to doctors. NZU over 300 million dollars are owed to pay doctors. No packages are paid today, no new contracts are signed to open new cod departments. Dear, well, please wake up, we need to save people and the country today, not imitate this kind of violent activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u114	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Krulk Ivan Ivanovich, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u115	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this bill, because the situation in the country with the oxygen supply of hospitals is absolutely critical. And actually, if we're talking about simplifying the procedures for setting up oxygen in hospitals, this question should not be considered right now when we have a peak pandemic, and this would be a question of even more in the spring when the situation was simpler and we could prepare Ukraine for the hospital to be oxygen-secured. And when the oxygen plants that are purchased today are certified for six months and cannot pass, please tell me how many people who are suffering from COVID will wait for them to put oxygen in them? So I think we need to spend more money on oxygen in all hospitals without exception, and simplify procedures so that all the oxygen stations in Ukrainian hospitals can be launched quickly. And let's ask questions that need to be addressed urgently, and we can make them when it's necessary, not when it's already, excuse me, the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. People's deputies please take their seats. The Committee's conclusion is to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. But as we voted, we will, first we vote on the basis, then, if there's no objection, I'll put this whole bill. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I propose to the committee the first sentence: to adopt the draft Law amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement on Prevention and Dissemination of Coronary Disease (registration number 6293). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:34:53]] For 337 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, judging by the vote, I understand that I can put it all together. Yeah? I therefore propose to adopt, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement on Prevention and Dissemination of Coronary Disease (registration number 6293). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:35:41]] For 339 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Please, Motovlover from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u117	Dear National Deputies! Today, Law 5600 stands in the order of the day. The "Serial of the People" faction is asking to be removed, and we need more time to consult. We ask that the decision be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u118	Okay. Thank you. Dear colleagues, can I make this decision -- not to consider 5,600 today? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've already put it to a vote. [[11:36:30.]] For 314 Decision taken. Beautiful. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Again. No, I can only do procedure. Out of procedure, please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u119	Dear Ukrainians, for the third time, Bill 5600 is being removed from the agenda under pressure from the opposition, and we demand that this law be broken. Because what does this bill refer to, and what does the authorities remain silent about? Each owner of a hectare of land there will be taxed for up to one and a half thousand dollars. Each oligarch will be given the opportunity to get on the rent and so forth. And in fact, only under the pressure of opposition, of the public who realizes the risks this bill poses for every taxpayer, "servicing" today -- common sense has won -- and were afraid to bring this law into the agenda. But we're warning you that we're not going to let you have 5,600, especially in the special procedure that you're going to take from the air to the Ukrainians. Taxes should be paid by the oligarchs you are going to fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, let's move on to. Dear friends, look, let's do this. Irina Volodymyrna, I'm sorry, I'm not commenting on your speech, but I'll be next time if it doesn't apply to procedure, I'll stop it. Okay? Thank you. Ivan Ivanovich, we have many important bills. One minute, Krulko. And then we go to the next project.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u121	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd just like us to understand that now (from procedure) we've removed from consideration, but just for today, the worst bill that's being considered in the Supreme Council this season. It's a bill that imposes extra taxes on people. Anyone who has 50 hundred lands will pay an extra tax for the land. This is a bill that will force people to sell their land. This is a bill that kills small and medium-sized businesses, and we are definitely against it. That's why I'm addressing you, Ruslan Alexiyovich. If we've put this bill down for today, let's vote and put it down forever so that it's not in the session room and there's no such bad drafts here. Here's our proposal from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u122	Thank you. But this is procedure, you're talking about deviation. A deviation can be only when the law is considered in substance. Therefore, the procedure cannot be rejected at all. Dear colleagues, the following Bill 6297 and its accompanying alternate 6297-1, 6297-2. This is the draft Act on Amendments to Supplements No. 1 and No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2021 (for assisting insured persons during the period of restrictive anti-epidemic measures taken to prevent the spread of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2). Dear colleagues, I understand, there is a need to discuss it. So I'm asking, let's look at this in a simplified way. I'm making a proposal for a reduced procedure. We need to get 150 votes. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:40:05]] For 254 Decision taken. I invite the author of the bill, National Deputy of Ukraine, Schuljak Olen Alexiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, in spite of the political powers you represent, I know that every day you communicate with your constituents, in your social networks, on television, you keep stressing that during this difficult period of quarantine, we should help business and people. And today you and I have a chance to confirm our desire for real action together. We will now vote in favour of Bill No. 6297, which deals with assisting all vaccinated Ukrainians for the quarantine period caused by the Coronavirus epidemic. As you already know, this document will help a little in the situation. First of all, we're going to support all the vaccinees who, because of quarantine and insufficient earnings, often have little money for their cultural and social needs. And second of all, we're going to be very helpful to a business that also loses a lot of visitors. Thirdly, we can encourage all those who have not yet been vaccinated and vaccinated. What's important? It's planned that the program will start in December of the 21st year and will last for the 22nd year. By the end of the year, it is expected to set aside 3 billion dollars. What's important is that the source of the funds is the recalculation of the budget. A specific payment mechanism for the government is going to be presented to all of us soon and it's going to be similar to how it was paid for 8,000 dollars earlier. So today I urge all my colleagues to make wise choices and support Bill 6297, because it primarily has the support of people and business, and it has our real attitude towards our fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u124	Thank you. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Rudik Kiri Alexandrovni, author of an alternative bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u125	Good afternoon! Kira Ruddick, Voice Party. A small and medium - size business in Ukraine has now survived two meadows. Sadly, not all of them came out: someone had closed down their companies, jobs, people had left Ukraine. "There's nothing to catch here," I'm told by small and medium-sized businesses, entrepreneurs. Because the hope that our country will help them is completely gone, and because every other country is offering something much better to support those who want to work, who can work, who can work, who can create business and jobs. We now have an additional 5.5 billion dollars in the Ukrainian budget. This is a coming that needs to be handled wisely. What the authorities are proposing in general, and today we're going to be looking at it with two bills. First of all, there's never a lot of money for Big Building. The second is to allocate half a billion dollars for, think about it, a new national airliner. Is that what we're missing right now? And the third is a very thoughtless way of handing out money to what businesses, so-called "Vova's Thousand." What the Voice Party suggests is that I'm in an alternative bill. It's going to give all of the 5.5 billion into a small and medium-sized business support fund. Guys, guys, think about it, next year you're gonna need someone to pay taxes again, you're gonna have to recharge the budget. Once again, you're going to have to resuscitate small and medium-sized businesses. So let's not kill him now. Let's let this money go to support small and medium-sized businesses, to support entrepreneurs who pay taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u126	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Puziychuk Andriy Viktorovich. There is no bill author. Then I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of the Disturbing Forest of Valentinovna. Oh, yeah? God, I'm sorry. You see, I've got to get my glasses on. Excuse me, Andri Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u127	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Unfortunately, the situation with the spread of COVID-19 today is inconsolable. The city of Kiev and 18 areas are in the red zone. This is the highest level of epidemic danger. About 60 percent of beds with oxygen are loaded. 79,000 citizens have already died from the Coronavirus, and this figure is rising every day. Colleagues, it's not just dry figures, it's reality today. That's why my bill provides for business support during the quarantine of the entire amount of additional revenue. That's 5.5 billion dollars. The main bill foresees only 3 billion dollars. I recall that two Bills 6297 and 6298 have been tabled in Parliament, which allocate 5.5 billion dollars of additional revenue. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to think more about the numbers. Nine million people have already been vaccinated. If each person pays 1,000 dollars apiece, it's going to take 9 billion. The 3 billion that the basic bill envisions is going to be a selective approach, it's going to create an inequality for citizens. Only 1 out of 3 citizens in Ukraine will receive payment. Let's channel the money really to support the business that's going through the toughest time. But with this business, you get a salary. This business is a source of budget. In addition to SOVID, business is still under very difficult conditions, which are associated with the energy crisis created by your government. Please support my bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u128	Thank you, Andrey Viktorovich. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of the Disturbed Forest Valentinovni. Please, Forest Valentine's Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u129	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished MPs, Ukrainians! This is an extremely important initiative to continue with President Vladimir Zelensky's initiative to support the Ukrainians who have been vaccinated, as well as the areas most affected by the coronavirus pandemic. Accordingly, on November 17, the Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting considered Bill 6297 and alternative Bill 6297-1 and 6297-2. The drafts are proposed to establish budget allocations under the general budget of the Ministry of Economics under the new budget programme to provide assistance to insured persons for the period of implementation of restrictive anti-epidemic measures in connection with SOVID-19. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council and Minfin concluded on Bill 6297. In view of the above, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council, on the basis of a first reading of Bill 6297 and alternative drafts, that it adopt Bill 6297 on the basis of which the Committee on Budget Questions should update the draft draft bill to the second reading, taking into account the amendments and proposals of the subject-matter of the legislative initiative, by shortening the deadline for making such amendments and proposals by half. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u130	Thank you, Forest Valentine's Day. Dear colleagues, I understand, there is a need to discuss this issue. Please sign up: two in, two in. The only thing we have is a few minutes left, so write down the speakers. Please. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u131	Galina Vasilchenko, “Justice. ” Of course, we consistently advocate supporting small and medium-sized businesses. And many of our initiatives, such as the Justice Union, in this session hall, in general in Parliament and in the committees of profile, are related to laws that, and initiatives that actually provide support for small and medium-sized businesses. But it's important for us that this is not done in words, but in action, and that aid to small and medium-sized businesses is not financed in accordance with the residual principle. I would like to remind you that in the Committee on Tax Policy over the past year, many legislative initiatives have been registered this year, which have foreseen and freed small-scale entrepreneurs from payment of the EU or the sole tax, but have not been considered since the beginning of the 21st year. And I also want to remind all the people's deputies who are in the session room, all the television viewers that, as of January 1nd, 22nd, they're going to have to go into action with the bills that envision total fiscalization. And again in December of the media reports, we see that there are numerous protests. And unfortunately, the majority continue to ignore important issues. There were appropriate working groups, there were different concepts of compromise options to protect small, micro-enterprises. And my appeal now to the authorities, to the majority representatives, to the government to pay attention to small businesses and to consider legislative initiatives, concepts that will actually protect microbusiness, and not, on the contrary, will not harm them and turn them into shadows.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u132	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u133	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u134	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please, I can see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, statistics in the last quarter indicate a decline in economic growth, and some forecasts indicate a possible zero economic growth by the end of this year. So it is surprising where will the proposed expenditure be financed? The answer is simple: New ones will be added to the unfunded 100 billion as of today. And now I'm talking to all the Ukrainians and the business. What is proposed in this bill? The new Ministry of Economic Development programme, which means that this money is offered to support insured persons when they cease to operate, as well as to stimulate the caregivers and hired workers for vaccination. What do you know now? All the speakers talk differently. Someone thinks it's business support, and someone thinks it's people's support for the thousand that's been offered. So again, this is manipulation, this is just the thieving that this authority is doing here, please understand. Something else may be written in your passport. Business has already responded to this proposal. Everyone says that these are the proposed funds that should be spent as the last 8,000 will now be spent on the thousand that the President has proposed. Now it's about that thousand. I'm asking everyone to stop, listen to the doctors what they're saying. You need to equip cars to travel to villages, for those who cannot reach out to a family doctor, help them, examine people, and reassure them, and give them advice on vaccination. If you're going to vaccinate another 75 percent of the people who are not even vaccinated anymore today, do the right thing, don't spend any more money if you just spend it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u136	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, the MP's Party for the Future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u137	Please pass the word to Dmitri Lubinci.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u138	Dmitri Lubinets, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u139	Honorary Presidium, distinguished national MPs, Ukrainian citizens, the parliamentary group "The Party for the Future" will vote and support this bill. I think we're like majors who work in their districts all the time, and we're going to support people, and we're going to urge them to do it to all the national MPs. More often, come to the O.T.A., communicate, and you'll realize that we're really on the verge of, except for all the problems, a huge problem with economic growth. We have to support people, we agree, we have to do this. But there really is a problem, a problem with what? According to the proposed bill, it is determined that social support for insured persons is provided in connection with the introduction of restrictive measures in the territory of certain regions. Well, that's what's causing concern about this definition, which is "insured persons." What about the rest of Ukraine’s citizens? If we're giving help, let's give all of the citizens of Ukraine who are working in our economy. That's the first one. And secondly, what we would like to pay attention to is that in this bill you clearly determine what the Ministry of Economics will be involved in. Instead, you write that by taking into account the name of the new budget programme, it is about providing assistance to insured persons, and the role of the Mineconomy in the mechanism of providing such assistance, in accordance with current legislation, is not foreseen. So the second reading, the esteemed colleagues, will have to settle these issues, will have to be brought up, including by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. So in the first reading, we're going to support the pro, and we're going to prepare the revisions to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine Salamasi Oreste Igorovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u141	Please pass the word to Vladimir Gevk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u142	Vladimir Gevka, please. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u143	Vladimir Gevko, Ternopilska. Dear colleagues, it has already become a very good practice for many civilized countries and Europe, and America to encourage its citizens to vaccinate, and to give pleasant bonuses to those citizens who are conscious and protected themselves, and others from the coronavirus, from the disease that is now stopping entire countries and has already done a lot of damage to many countries. So this initiative is very correct and very relevant. We all know that there were businesses during the lockdown that were able to reorient pretty quickly, that were able to work remotely, that were able to arrange the delivery of their goods. But there were a number of businesses that through the lockdown had to just be locked to the key. And this bill is not just about motivation, it's about supporting those who have suffered the most. And that is why I call upon all those who care about the health of our citizens and all those who want to help our business that has suffered the most to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u144	Thank you. And the final word, Nestor Ivanovich Šufric, is one minute. Then we go to the vote. People's deputies, take your seats. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u145	Thank you, Mr. Head. Of course, we need to be stimulated, but why didn't we start doing this six months ago? Is this a new idea about a thousand bracelets? No, we've already seen "Julina's Thousand," "Vita's Thousand" in Ukraine, now "Lodi's Thousand." But it won't work without us, and we'll do it. But there's a question. Now, according to Minfin, 9.2 million people are completely vaccinated, and according to Minhvod, 10 million. I ask the question: How can money be divided, and what can we do to those who do not have Action? Therefore, we insist that this law be voted upon exclusively in the first reading. We're in favour of shortening the amendment process and getting a better look at it, but we're going to demand that all the restrictions on using this money be lifted so that there's not enough for everyone and there's no limit on how people can get this money, not just because of the Action. It's not everyone's. That's why we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u146	Thank you. Ivan Ivanovich Krulko. But I'm asking for 30 seconds, and then we're going to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u147	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We, of course, as the Fatherland faction, are advocating that Ukrainians have any help in this complex socioeconomic situation. But it's completely unwarranted when, and we don't see any government programs that people can spend on. If it's a movie and theaters, I'm sorry, people in villages don't like movies or theaters. They're not there, first of all, and second of all, people are just spending money on utilities, on drugs that they need to buy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you all for your position. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for a committee to accept as a basis, taking into account the Committee's proposals, the draft Act amending Appendices Nos. 1 and No. 3 to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2021 (to assist insured persons for a period of restrictive anti-epidemic measures initiated to prevent the spread of acute respiratory disease caused by SARS-COV-2) (registration number 6297). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:00:59]] For 285 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you cut the deadline for proposals and amendments and preparations for the second reading of Bill 6297. Please vote. [[12:01:29]] For 259. Decision taken. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u149	We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. People's deputies please take their seats. We're moving on to the next projects. This is the first reading, especially projects 6298, 6298-1, 6298-2. This is a draft Act amending Appendices 1 and 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 (for the implementation of infrastructure projects and the development of sociocultural objects). Dear colleagues, I understand there will be a discussion on this issue, but we must vote first. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're already talking about this one. Nestor Ivanovich, we're in. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're going to vote the abbreviated first, and then we're going to vote the abbreviated, and then we're going to vote the abbreviated. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make a suggestion to consider these issues in a simplified manner. I remind you that we need to get 150 votes. People's deputies please take their seats. I propose to consider the draft Act on Amendments to Supplements Nos. 1 and 3 to the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2021 (for the implementation of infrastructure projects and the development of sociocultural objects) (these are the registration numbers of projects 6298, 6298-1, 6298-2). It's a simplified procedure. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:39:02]] For 216 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to Ukrainian national deputy Schuljak Olen Alexiyevna. Please, Olena Alexiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, we are now considering an extremely important Bill 6298. And I know that the issue of ensuring a decent standard of living for the Ukrainians is definitely not the case. And we all aim at the legislative level to do everything we can to make our country comfortable and comfortable. But it doesn't have to be a declaratory support, it takes concrete action. Today, a bill is being submitted to you, according to which the State Budget in 2021 envisioned 2.5 billion dollars for the implementation of infrastructure projects. Just like that, let's do it objectively. First, this is road M30 (Strej Izvarne), the longest road in Ukraine, the so-called road of unity, which is built up to the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's independence, and this is the longest transport corridor in Ukraine, which starts in Lviv and ends in Lugansk, and reaches almost a thousand miles. Second, it's a famous bridge through Dnipro in Zaporozhye. And the port city is the eighth highest in all of Europe's built water bridges, and it's also the most famous long-distance in Ukraine. It was started in 2004, but it was only in 2019 that there was a desire to continue construction. And now it's being built in 24/7 to finish it in two years. And 1 billion dollars from this bill will be directed directly to the local roads, because it's about an adequate connection between villages and small towns. Well, finally, 0.5 billion dollars left will be directed towards the formation of the share capital of a national airline. Colleagues, please support this bill, which continues to build the infrastructure of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u151	Thank you, Helen Alexyevna. I invite the author of an alternative bill from the Ukrainian National MP, Skorek Mikola Leonidovich. Please, Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u152	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I have the honour of presenting, on behalf of the faction of the Opposition Platform for Life, an alternative bill number 6298-1. It's very short, very simple. If the authorities have found it, too. If he sees an extra 2.5 billion dollars of income, we suggest that we direct it to the next expenditure. Half a billion dollars for the Ministry of Health, the increase for the new budget programme: additional payments to doctors and medical personnel. And 2 billion dollars to Minneergo to buy energy to prejudice technological catastrophes during the 2021-2022 heating season. It's very difficult for me to understand why the authorities consider the priority tasks, the first priority needs for Ukraine, for its citizens in the face of a coronary crisis, in the context of an energy crisis, to channel funds to some of the so-called infrastructure projects that they don't understand. It's very difficult for me to understand how you're going to finance them at the end of the year, given the weather. It's very difficult for me to understand how you're going to do that with tender procedures. And one more thing. It's about Bill 6297. We welcome the decision of the authorities to support our citizens in the face of a coronary crisis. But you don't have to be a great mathematician, you just have to know the arithmetic that three billion is completely insufficient for all of the vaccines, and you're going to selectively bend, inoculate our citizens, and that way, I think, you're going to test your own network through the Action System, taking into account what you said and talking about what you're going to put into electronic voting. And the last. Why do people have to go to theaters, theaters, and museums instead of getting the most important things for themselves when.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u153	Thank you. The word is given by Sowsun Inni Romanovni, the authors of another alternative bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u154	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear fellows, I am no longer surprised by the mysterious mathematics of the "Serve of the People" faction. On Monday, the President took the initiative to give thousands of dollars to each and every one who received two doses of the vaccine. That's a lot of money. If you translate to this number of vaccines that we have today, it's already over 9 billion dollars. That's a lot of money. I don't understand, frankly, where the government, the government, the president, the "Serial of the People" faction in Parliament are planning to take money for everyone who will eventually be vaccinated. But after all, there is a political promise. You said we'd give everyone thousands of dollars. And now you're in Parliament looking at a number of bills to make changes to the budget all this year, because it's happened that there are now an additional 5.5 billion dollars in the budget that can now be used. I don't understand in this case why this money is being offered on the table now instead of putting the President's promise to give it to everyone by the thousands, now you're offering to throw it on the road again. Please tell me, is there any point in stopping? How many more can be added to the roads? Over the last few weeks, we've added over 20 billion dollars to the roads, and that's in addition to the money that was originally invested in the roads. Instead, we could invest in what we really need today. It's vaccination propaganda, it's an information campaign, it's the support of family doctors who inform, who work directly with patients. These are the resources that would actually let you solve real problems right now. Instead, the authorities are on the other hand offering to use this money on the roads. I hear that there are now initiatives to support people who are in trouble. I support the idea that, yes, Ukrainians should feel better here and today. But how will this be achieved by these bills, which the authorities are proposing today, remains completely incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to take you to the report of the Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, Mr. Truchin Alexander Mikolaiovich, please. Gunshoe Arsenius, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u156	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! Now we've heard a report on the main bill, the speeches, and two alternatives. First of all, if we're talking today about what Mrs. Shulak has reported, and how these costs will be spent under this bill, we understand that if we're talking about large infrastructure projects, these are projects that are already being implemented today. And to a greater extent, work has already been done in advance. If we're talking about rural roads, it's actually that fast bus or that school bus that's going on a new road today, and it's going to be safe and comfortable. If we're talking today about calls to pay doctors, we'll raise them next year. And when the alternative bill just said today, let's give some medicine a no. Since the following year, they have been systematically raised for health professionals and for doctors, and the wages are substantial. And that's already taken into account, and it's going to be accepted in the 22nd year budget as a whole. If we're talking about Big Construction today, if we're talking about roads, for example, 1 bracelet, put in the road today, is a return to the economy of 1 bracelet of 66. So what we're talking about today is that we need to develop an economy. We're talking today about what Big Building gives jobs. These are specific issues today, and every citizen of Ukraine sees around the projects that are being implemented today. That's why the program, which is why the Big Construction support is a real channel of government funds into real affairs. To sum up, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council that the first reading of the 6290 Bill and the alternative bills be adopted on the basis of 6290, with the commission to work on the second reading, taking into account the conclusions of the GNEU and the recommendations of the Minfin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u157	You mean 6298. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand, there is a need to discuss this issue. That's why I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the national deputy of Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u158	Please pass the word to Vitalia Bezgin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u159	Vitaly Bezgin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u160	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, colleagues! I'm not going to talk about much of this, because we all live in communities, and not all communities from the point of view of infrastructure are the same as district centers. In particular, our "Serial of the People" team was joined by people who embraced local self-government and were the heads of communities. So, communities are made, but local roads, municipal roads, and sociocultural issues are one of the most challenging problems that not only majorists and censuses cross, but primarily every citizen. So I think that we, in particular, have a constant budget when we have funds, help with appropriate subsidies and adequate resources to help our communities become objectively capable. So I call on everyone, and this is really the position not only of our parliamentary faction, but also of our factions in the local councils, to support this bill and to give local self-government an additional resource as soon as possible to develop appropriate infrastructure. I'd like your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u161	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanishini Olza Anatoliyevna, the faction of "Golos". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u162	Please pass the word to Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u163	Julia Klimenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, this bill. Surely, it is a fine goal to complete the roads of local importance, to complete the roads of others. But this bill still has 500 million dollars to be allocated to create a new state airline. So we now have 3,000 state-owned companies, they generate, for a second, here I looked in 2020, five companies, five state-owned enterprises generated 84 billion dollars of damage, loss. It's the money that's paid out of our citizens' pockets. So we have a whole, 3,000, state-owned businesses, and we're doing another enterprise that's known to be corrupt. Can you please say, by periphrasing a living classic, how many state-owned enterprises do you still lack? Please tell me, once a system of existing state-owned enterprises is in place, they will stop stealing, will they stop putting people who don't understand money? Why are you still creating a dead enterprise, a national airline? While Antonov seems to have made one plane in the previous period. Where are you going to take airplanes -- to fund other people's economies again? How long has it been? Six planes, they call me six planes. In order to make a normal airliner, you have to take normal airplanes in ice skating, and you have to pay money again abroad. Why are we again creating a corrupt state enterprise? Surrender yourself. I also want to tell Ukrainian citizens that in the first quarter of the 21st year, the assets of state-owned Ukrainian companies decreased by 24 percent, by 400 billion in one quarter of the 21st year. I have this question: where are these assets and..?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u165	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Gerasim Arthur Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u166	Please pass the word to Pottery Alexia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u167	Alexiyovich Honcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u168	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, once again, you will have the authority to tell us that we do not have enough money for oxygen, for mines, for Ukrainian military personnel. We're told a thousand. So, really, how can you give thousands of bracelets? We have the power to say that 17 million people should at least be vaccinated, and they're betting on that in terms of 6 billion. Who's Zelensky? What, he feeds people with one fish ten times more than they put in money? But, you know, friends, when language comes to things where you can warm your hands, money does. And now we're being offered a draft decision on the creation of a national airline, where we're about to invest half a billion dollars in Ukrainian citizens. Those who fly, those who don't fly don't matter. Get the money into the new neighborhood airlines. Why? Well, it's clear what it's for to steal that money. To get another corrupt dining room from which all the Lechchenka Networks will receive their wages. By the way, I'll remind you, the cruiser that made 3 billion in the 19th year made 12 billion dollars in profits in the 20th year. What does this authority offer us? Instead of setting up a system on the Crossroads, let us also create a national carrier, and there we will set up a supervisory board, our pianists. I'm going to suggest who should be working there right away. And we're going to have a national air carrier. Look, this is harassment. There is a global crisis of air traffic. And at this point, Ukraine, one of the poorest countries in Europe, is putting the last one in the national airline to just steal that money, just to make some kind of cheap pierra. But you better support the business that is already in Ukraine. Not at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u169	Please, National Deputy Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, U.S.A. The faction of the Political Party of Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u170	Sobolje, Fatherland. Colleagues, take the last two drafts that predict strangely, and I'm asking representatives of the Ministry of Finance to execute the income tax budget, in one case only 985 million dollars, and in the other, 0.985 billion dollars. Please tell me, is this a strange way to re-enact the budget one way or another? Ministry of Finance, report. Just like you gave to the budget committee. Is there any money like that? Is there such a remake? How can we share what is not in nature? The second question. Well, if it's almost 2.5 billion there, you know what's the situation where it's impossible to pay gas tariffs first of all for local budgets? When you sign a memorandum, how come you don't give a penny to support local budgets? How will local budgets pay insurmountable fees at hospitals, schools, preschools? Well, if you need money to do that, take it out. Question three. Please tell me, when will free population testing begin? There's a Supreme Council decree. Why don't you do it? How our citizens have to pay from 700 to 1,100 dollars per test, I think it's a waste of state resources. Just, Minfin, give me the answer is this money or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u171	Thank you. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. The Fatherland faction has just spoken, I'm sorry. No! No! From the faction of yours, Sergey Vladislavovich was just speaking. That's why Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich is here. After that, Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. And then we move on, dear colleagues, to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u172	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. First of all, the question is, where did the money come from, Zin? Catastrophe underfunding in both regions and ministries. Well, they found about 2.5 billion. Again, what you want to do with them is bury them in the asphalt thoroughly. 150 billion, along with guarantees for Ukraine, is not enough, so another billion or two should be added. I'll make it easy for you. Do you respect Vladimir Zelensky? Do you respect the President's initiative? We have 3 billion going to Vovin, as the people say, a thousand. Let's go. 3 billion over 9.5 million can't be divided. So let's add these two and a half to three, so even though 5.5 million of our citizens will get it, but without restrictions on use and without restrictions on getting it through the Dija, let's let the Patchwork work and everything else. And this is the law to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u173	The word is given to the national deputy Shah's Sergey Volodymyrovich. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u174	The building of infrastructure is certainly necessary for our state, because everything is ruined. On more than one occasion, I turned to the Louganese Tribune: Why was the Kupian Road built by the governor of the Lighthouse and after the Kupian Hole as graves, cowboys? As our colleague Lukashev said, when the car is driving, the houses are completely broken down. From Trootick to Bilukurakina, from Bilukurakina to Svatov. The Novopskovsky region is impossible to travel, and it takes four hours to travel 20 kilometers. People suffer, farmers suffer. Next. A railway branch that connects Lugansk to a peaceful Ukraine has not yet been built. We gathered as many meetings as we could. From Bilukurakina to Svatov, a railway branch should be built. They were already gathering and saying they needed a project, and the area hasn't done it yet. Who will do this?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Please take your seats, we're moving on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to the committee to adopt a bill based on the committee’s proposals (registration number 6298). This is a draft Act amending Appendices Nos. 1 and 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 (for the implementation of infrastructure projects and the development of sociocultural objects). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:00:39]] For 236 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I also make a proposal in line with part two of article 116 of the Rules to cut the deadline for proposals and amendments and to prepare for the second reading of Bill 6298. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:01:13]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, yesterday a meeting of the Regulatory Committee was held and a decision was made to recommend the creation of an appropriate interim commission of inquiry; this is the registration number of the 6300 project – this is about the investigation of the death (death) of our colleague Anton Polakov. If there is no objection, we will put and vote immediately on this interim commission of inquiry. Dear colleagues, let's make a statement from the committee, shall we? Dear colleagues, we're voting from the committee, okay? Ready to vote like that? [[B in m in s a l in]] Calchenko needs to speak to the committee. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich. Excuse me, Sergey Mikolaiovich, two minutes. Let's do it anyway. 6300.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u176	The Honourable Presidency, the distinguished Ukrainian National Deputies, the Committee at its meeting on November 17, 2021, reviewed the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the murder of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Poland, Anton Eduardovich, a criminal conduct of 12021000002899, submitted to the ERDR on October 08, 2021 (hereinafter the Interim Investigation Commission), introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Trachod Anna Kostjanovna (registration No. 6300 from 09.11.2021). As a result of this project, the Committee adopted a conclusion on the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the murder of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the People's Republic of Poland, Ms. Anna Kostinovič (the criminal conduct of which I was designated for the ERRD 08.10.2021) (hereinafter the Interim Investigation Commission), introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ms. Anna Kostinovna, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be determined on the draft Decision (registration No. 6300 from 09.11.2021) by a vote taking into account the observations made in the conclusions. This is: the name of the draft decision, which reads as follows: "On the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the death (murder) of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Poland, Anton Eduardoovich." Next. Match the name of the project to the first and second of this project. Post item 2: "Determining the main task of the Interim Investigation Commission to investigate the death (murder) of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Polakov Anton Eduardoovich. To make changes to the number and personal composition of the Temporary Investigation Commission, to draft a decision in accordance with the regulation on the procedure for dealing with documents in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, approved by the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on certain issues of document management in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in electronic, paper form (since February 8, 2021), number 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u177	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Yeah, it really needed a performance. Thank you. Sergei Vitaliovich, thank you, too. Dear colleagues! That's why I'm putting to the vote the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of the Murder of the People's Deputy of Ukraine by Polack Anton Eduardoovich (project registration number 630), taking into account the proposals made in the Committee's conclusions. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:05:20]] For 322 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's see the factions. Let's move on. The next is that we have a question of making decisions regarding the application of the procedure under Article 119. Out of procedure, please, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u178	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that when I consider this issue in the first reading, I personally asked that I consider it as a complete process. Because it is an extremely important fundamental law on government activity in Ukraine. Unfortunately, it contains dozens of unconstitutional norms that all talked about, without exception, opposition in this room. Then we were assured that in the absence of time, we would quickly accept it on the first reading, you would make amendments, and in the second reading we would have a comprehensive, extensive discussion of the subject in the session room. We've made our amendments, over 2,000 amendments. Now what? You're proposing to use the 119th prim. 1 and not allow us to discuss all of these amendments. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! I'm drawing your attention, 619 pm. 1, according to the law, can only be applied if the national MPs were received in advance according to 117th, a table prepared for the second reading. To make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us turn to this issue. You are being considered with the proposal of 150 Ukrainian national deputies to apply a special procedure for the consideration of bills in the second reading that is foreseen. [[B in m in s a l in]] One second. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, in support of what my colleague, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch has said, I would like to point out that at this point you have no right to deal with this issue in principle. Because according to the Rules, you had to distribute a table in two days. Give the table, wait two days, not one day as you wait, but two days wait, and consider the matter. Now you have no right by procedure to consider this question, even to consider the possibility of using the 119 with the 1st badge. Therefore, Mr. Head, please comply with the Rules, return to the Rules and discuss even reduced procedures under the Rules. There is now no legal basis for dealing with this issue in principle. Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u181	According to the information I just received, the table for the second reading is displayed on 04.10, am I correct? All of it. Thank you. My fellow Members, you are now considering the proposal of 150 people's deputies of Ukraine to apply a special procedure for the consideration of bills in the second reading provided for in article 119 pr. The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, as discussed in the second reading of the draft Act (registration number 4298) amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations and some other legislative acts on the reform of the territorial executive organization in Ukraine (new edition). The report is given by one of the initiators of this proposal to the national deputy of Ukraine, Vitaly Yuriovich Bezgin. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! A break of 15 minutes is announced. Heads of factions and groups, please gather with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, let me tell you the good news: there is a compromise in our hall. And so after the faction heads meeting, the groups came to this agreement. For the time being, we are temporarily putting off the special procedures. Instead, all the factions and groups today will in half an hour submit the number of amendments they will make on these two bills to remove the issue of spam and then work on the amendments that will construct the work in our room. Do you have a deal? So now we're moving on to the next questions that we have in our daily lives. This is a bill on the State-wide Targeted Social Program "The Drinking Water of Ukraine" for 2022-2026 years. Dear colleagues, perhaps we will consider this question, this is the first reading, right? Now, just a second. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Why don't we take him now? Dear colleagues, if there's no objection, I'm making an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Arthur Volodymyrovich, that was good when you were. All right, colleagues, then the draft Law on the Public Targeted Social Program "The Drinking Water of Ukraine" for 2022-2026 years (project registration number 5723). I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Ready to vote? Please take your seats, we vote in favour of the short-term procedure for dealing with this issue. Please vote. [[13:47:02]] For 221 Decision taken. Deputy Minister for the Development of Communities and Territories, Natalia Volodymyrna, is invited to attend. Please, Natalia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u183	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished Ukrainian national deputies, respected Ukrainians! The crisis of fresh water shortages worldwide is worsening. This problem is of concern to most nations, and Ukraine is not an exception. The main factors that make this crisis global are climate change, fluid drying, river construction, obsolete water infrastructure. With the aim of improving the quality of drinking water and ensuring the availability of services by the Ministry, a draft Law on the State-wide Targeted Program on Drinking Water of Ukraine has been developed for 2022-2026 years. This program will provide safe drinking water for millions of citizens. And the task of implementing the program is going to be to reduce the amount of uncleaned sewage. An estimated 1,000 700 projects are planned for implementation and implementation: the construction and reconstruction of watersheds; the installation of drinking water treatment stations in central water supply systems; the construction and reconstruction of water treatment plants and water treatment facilities; the construction of water supply and water supply networks; and the creation and cleaning of modern basic laboratory equipment with control and quality of drinking water and sewage. The program’s size is more than 28 billion. They cost the government budget about 17 billion dollars and other sources of over 11 billion dollars, including local budgets. The program will help solve the longstanding problem of quality and access to drinking water in Ukraine. It's for real.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u184	Thank you. The word is given to the co-reporter — the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environment of Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u185	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use considered the draft Law on the State-wide Targeted Social Program "The Drinking Water of Ukraine" for 2022-2026. The bill was designed to ensure the development and reconstruction of centralized water supply systems, centralized water management of Ukrainian population sites, and to provide sufficient quality drinking water for the population of Ukraine. A state-wide targeted social program called Drinking Water of Ukraine: a process of strategic environmental assessment, discussion, in that account and public discussion. According to this program, there are no comments from the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment, and other ministries. I would like to remind you that safe and affordable water is an important factor in people's health, whether it's used for drink, household needs, food preparation or recreational purposes. An improved water supply and sanitation system and more efficient water use can also contribute to economic growth in our country. In 2010, the UN General Assembly clearly recognized the human right to water and sanitation. Everyone has the right to adequate, continuous, safe, physically accessible and affordable water supply for personal and household needs. So we need to step up our work towards modernizing drinking water companies in order to prevent a technological, technological disaster, and to eliminate social tensions with regard to drinking water. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council a draft law on the State-wide targeted social programme "The Drinking Water of Ukraine" for 2022 to 2026 on the basis of the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vintonak Oleni Vasililowni, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u187	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, I would like to confirm the importance of supporting the bill, because we see that, today, in many areas, there is not enough quality drinking water in many locations. Few things are missing in some areas and in some locations, so the program is scheduled in time, it is relevant, and it needs to be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u188	Thank you. Sussun Inna Romanovna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u189	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u190	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u191	Roman Lozinski, “Justice. ” Every week we work with voters and colleagues in regions, in communities, in new communities. And each time, among the objects that we visit, primarily the heads of communities, local activists, local deputies bring us to water - related objects — cleaning facilities, disaster - related objects, and objects that directly affect the quality of life in the community. As of today, the state, a budget that is being formed, by the way, at the expense of taxpayers, does not provide the community with sufficient funding to enable them to have the right to quality water, in order to modernize clean-up buildings, as is done in all civilized countries. 5 billion 230 million dollars is the amount of funding for the program. Is that enough? No! No! But is this step necessary for communities to at least add a little money to local budgets? Obviously we do. But only 3 billion 162 million -- that's going to be the money allocated from the government budget. My colleagues at Justice, each time looking into these people's eyes, are obliged to spend even more money on things that are felt first of all in the community each day, including the quality of drinking water. Therefore, dear colleagues, this program needs to be supported. My colleagues and I, including colleague Galina Vasilchenko, Natalia Pipo, made a number of amendments to the government budget. Costs should be higher for communities every year. And including our 5 percent PFC initiative, which Galina Vasilchenko supports on her committee every time, should also increase local budgets so that water treatment plants, water pipes change and improve in order for water quality to grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u192	The word is given to National Deputy Ariev Volodymyr Igorovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u193	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u194	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, are there problems with drinking water in Ukraine? They do exist. They don't just exist in Ukraine, they exist all over the world. Should this bill be supported? Yes, it is. I urge everyone to support "European Solidarity" will support this bill. As you know, it is in this area that there is really a great deal of cooperation between Ukraine and our international partners. And when it comes to international cooperation, the key thing, the key concept, the key principle of this cooperation is trust. Is there trust in Ukraine today? Yes, it still exists. Is there trust in Ukrainian leadership in the world today? No, there isn't. And one of the reasons why it's fallen significantly and I think it's almost gone is because it's a case of a plummeting operation on "vagres." Let us not forget: For 15 months, even more, Ukrainian authorities and Zelensky themselves openly lied to the Ukrainians about this operation, just as they lied on tariffs, just as they lied on other occasions. And I would like to say that this very lie has led to a significant decline in the trust of international partners in Ukraine. With regard to Bellingcat's investigation and with regard to the investigations that exist today, we have clearly seen Green Lie.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u196	Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u197	And the possible betrayal in the highest offices of the state had its place. So, dear colleagues, I urge everyone in this room to do one very simple thing to restore international confidence in Ukrainian leadership, because this is the leadership of the country where we live.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u198	Arthur Volodymyrovich! Arthur Volodymyrovich, please drink water in Ukraine, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u199	You know what? Drinking water is based on what you pour. So you know, what you're protesting shows another moment. I don't know if it's for money or not, but you're really covering for the criminals who broke this operation and committed treason. Therefore, opposition requires a real temporary commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, I very much ask all speakers to abide by the rules of the Rules, which relate to what should be the subject of discussion. Next, Batenko Taras Ivanovich. After that, Jacenko. And after that, Skork. Please, Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u201	I'd like to give the floor to a colleague of the people's deputies, Sergio Rudik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u202	Please, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u203	Dear Ukrainians! Ukraine would seem to be like no other country provided with water. Dnipro, small rivers that are in every area. We've got Tismin, Rotten Tikic, Silver and many others in Cherchishka. But the water supply in our urban communities, I'm not talking about rural areas anymore, in a very, very critical state. Today, we have more than 100,000 miles [100,000 km] of water, more than a third of which are in critical condition. Today, we have 30,000 miles [30,000 km] of sewerage, more than 40 percent of which are in critical condition. Water and water supply are, at best, 50 percent of our nation’s population. Of course, this program is a step forward. But if it's just a program without an appropriate budget increase, it's nothing. Looking at the 22nd year State Budget project, I've made it possible to increase this program by 2 billion dollars. The government of genius reformers said, no, there's no money for that. You know what it's for, and it's not for water. How does a reformer who thinks of future generations differ from one who thinks where to raise money and pocket money? It's a strategic approach: what money to invest in, what it doesn't. Money has to be invested in water and water, for Ukraine will not survive without it. And 20 years from now, it's not about water supply, it's about the survival of the nation. We're voting for this program and we're pushing the green button for the 22nd year state budget project, and we're increasing it by 2 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u204	The word is given to national deputy Yatzenk Anton Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland". After that, Skork. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, the really drinking water program isn't what's hurt, it's very, very necessary, because today we have both energy loss and water loss up to 50 percent. But any program has to be financially supported. So we have to work with the Ministry of Finance and the Committee of Budgets so that for the next year and all the years, it will be funded on a regular basis, so that it doesn't remain a declarative function. Therefore, there is a great request for support from all, personally majors. And what I'm saying is that unfortunately, we have a very negative trend today, with the wells grinding, there's no water source, so we really need to accept that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u206	Thank you. Please, Shahov. And after that, Bacon. Let's go to Bakunec first, then Shahov. A kiss, please. Oh, I'm sorry, Skork. Scorch, then Shahov, then Bacon. Santa Claus Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, distinguished presidency, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Opposition Platform for Life has decided to support the program in the first reading. However, we want to point out the following. In view of the fact that the previous program has not been implemented by even 10 percent, we insist that we vote exclusively in favour of adopting it in the first reading so that it has a real financial filling with a clear definition of funding sources. Indeed, it is a very important program, primarily for those regions that have a serious water deficit. I mean in this situation my native Odessa area and primarily the south of the Odessa region, such as the Balgrad region, the Ishmael region, which suffers from a shortage of normal drinking water when thousands of inhabited areas are deprived of normal water supply. We insist that this program is not left empty. And in the first reading, we'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u208	Thank you. Please, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. Then Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u209	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, you all know that in Ukraine today, there is virtually an ecological disaster involving rivers, lakes, and large rivers. For example, Luhanskina, the Dercule River, which had to be cleaned long ago. The Silver Donate is the largest artery that is not being maintained at the state level today. We demand that all the rivers that are polluted today be installed in this program. More than 10,000 rivers, springs today are polluted and virtually non-renewable. Just as man cannot do without water, the earth cannot do without water. There is no water in the wells today. Today, the situation with the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, where mines are being submerged and all the dirt is being poured into the Silver Donz. It's practically also a technological disaster, and we need to pay attention to that. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina, MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u210	Please, Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u211	Thank you. I'm like a committee. First of all, of course, it should be emphasized to all of you that the drinking water program of Ukraine is important. Not only is it important because our cities need water, it is important because we have 90 percent water supply and water supply systems in all the locations, but there are also settlements where they are not yet. So we need to financially fill in the budget of the programme, vote on the first reading, on the second reading, and help the newly created communities change their water supply and water supply systems. The Chamber of Deputies votes in favour. Thank you, Cabinet of Ministers, for the program. Thank you to the Environmental Committee for having considered it, prepared it, and given it to us. We all vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u212	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion, we are moving on to making a decision. I'm proposing to the committee to adopt the draft Law on the Universal Purpose Social Program "The Drinking Water of Ukraine" for 2022-2026. Once again, the draft Law on the General Purpose Social Program "Debt Water of Ukraine" for 2022-2026 (project registration number 5723). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:05:26]] For 328 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next question. This is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 128 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the Features of Acquisition by the Civil Prosecutor Status Guarantee Fund, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (registration number 4547). Dear colleagues, here's your form of discussion. First, the President's report, within 10 minutes, then the answers to questions from MPs and groups, up to 3 minutes, the report from the Main Committee, within 5 minutes, the co-rapporteur's answer to questions, up to 3 minutes. Then vote on the proposals in the order in which they are put forward by the President. And then, after that, the vote on the adoption of the law as a whole. I would like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedor Volodymyrovich Venislavski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u213	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on June 30, 2021, the Act on Amendments to Article 128 of the Criminal Procedural Code on the Features of Acquisition by the Fund for Guaranteeing the Contributions of Persons to the Status of Civil Prosecutor (Registration No. 4547) was not signed by the President of Ukraine. And the President of Ukraine applied the veto for the following reasons. The law proposes that the Fund guarantee the contributions of natural persons the authorization to file a civil suit in the interest of creditors of an insolvent bank or bank for which a decision has been made to dispose of such persons only for the availability of such persons. In this regard, it should be noted that the approach proposed by law deprives the fund of the ability to claim civil charges in criminal proceedings in the interests of creditors of an insolvent bank in criminal proceedings, creating uncertainty as to the obligation to file lawsuits in the interests of creditors, which in turn is the basis for ambiguous understanding of the law. According to the head of State, this approach is not in line with the principle of legal certainty, which is part of the constitutional principle of the rule of law enshrined in article 8 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The absence of the proper powers of the Fund to guarantee the investments of natural persons provides a basis for avoiding managers and owners of insolvent banks from being held liable for damage to creditors’ interests. Today, it is important to note that more than 120 billion dollars have already been filed to ensure the proper protection of creditors’ interests. Nor can the President of Ukraine agree with the proposed approach, taking into account the scale of the financial and banking crisis 2014-2015, during which the fund has launched a liquidation procedure of about 100 banks, with a total of more than 230 000 creditors, whose requirements amount to over 230 billion dollars. In view of the above, specific proposals have been made by the President of Ukraine. That is, relying on the Fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons of the unconditional obligation to file a civil suit in the interest of creditors of an insolvent bank in the proposed first sentence of part four of article 128 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. On behalf of the President of Ukraine, I ask you to support the proposals proposed and to enact the law in general, including them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u214	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. Let's go to the interviewer's in three minutes. Please sign up for the question. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the City Jury Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u215	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I ask you to pass the word to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u216	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u217	Thank you. Dear reporter, I have a fundamental question that our citizens would certainly like to hear. After making the appropriate changes and taking into account the suggestions, how much do you think this situation will improve today? The purpose of every law is to improve life, and someone has spoken today. So the question is, How will the adoption of this law contribute to improving life today?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u218	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich, for your questions. That's a very right and very right question. The adoption of this law will ensure the active operation of the Fund to guarantee the investment of individuals in protecting more than 230,000 investors of insolvent banks. Given the number of investors who have already filed civil suits, we can talk about criminal conduct in cases where there are hundreds of thousands of civil prosecutors will be extremely complicated and very prolonged in time. Appropriately, allowing the fund to act on its own behalf as a civil suitor in criminal proceedings will greatly accelerate criminal proceedings, significantly accelerate the satisfaction of the civil suit in criminal proceedings and, accordingly, ensure the return of their savings to investors.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u219	The word is given to the People's Deputy Veliczovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u220	Good afternoon. Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u221	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u222	Please tell the reporter, in fact, this law was signed by the Head of the Supreme Council on 30.06. 2021. I remember when we discussed this bill. You didn't know the amount of civil lawsuits you're talking about at the time? Why didn't you take this situation into account? And I think we're doing the wrong thing. And you're saying that the Deposit Guarantee Fund is going to be the reliable defender in a civil suit about investors because it has a very large amount of work and these investors who would like their rights to be protected. What is the precautionary measure or the norm that the fund is going to carry out with regard to all investors, in good conscience, I mean?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u223	Thank you, Nina Petrovna, for your question. In large numbers, the answer to this question is found in the transcript of the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since June 30, 2021. I would like to remind you that during the consideration of this issue in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yatzik, a national deputy, was amended by the committee and appointed by the head of the committee to confirm it with the proposal not to support it, which was also suggested by the mandatory requirement for such credentials. Unfortunately, this was not included. Accordingly, the president of Ukraine made a commitment to the bill, made a comment that he was laying down on the foundation as an imperative duty to apply to a civil prosecutor for all insolvent banks, whether such a bank was a legal person or whether it had already ceased to exist as a legal person. One reason for the cessation of conduct is the cessation of legal status, which would make it impossible for natural persons to obtain civil suitor status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u224	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Feder Volodymyrovich, thank you, take your place. I invite the co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on the Protection of the Law, Sergio Konstantinovich Ionushas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u225	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Protection considered, at its meeting on 20 October 2021, the President's proposal to the Supreme Council adopted on 30 June 2021, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 128 of the Criminal Procedural Code on the peculiarities of acquisition by the Fund of Guaranteeing the Contributions of Persons with Civil Status (registration No. 4547). The president of Ukraine, Green Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, pointed out that the law adopted would not be signed in the proposed edition by making a number of comments on his position in his proposals and proposing the first sentence of section I, paragraph 2. "Civil action for the interests of creditors of an insolvent bank or bank, for which a decision has been taken on the grounds set out in article 77, part two, of the Ukrainian Act on Banking and Banking, whose requirements are accepted by the Fund for the Guarantee of Persons are presented by the Fund for the Guarantee of Investments of Persons." The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees with the argument made by the President of Ukraine. Having examined the proposals of the President of Ukraine, the Committee adopted the conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 135 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, that it accept the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Act on Amendments to Article 128 of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of acquisition by the Fund for Guaranteeing the Contributions of Individuals of Civil Appeal Status and to enact legislation as a whole. Dear colleagues, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u226	Thank you, Sergey Costinovich. Please check in with the reporter, and this will take up to three minutes. Please. But not with your hand up, but with the push of a button. Press the "record" button. The word is given to national deputy Kostrajchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u227	Please give it to Gorbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u228	Please, Ruslan Gorbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u229	Dear Sergey Costinovich, I have a question for you. Is the Fund obliged to guarantee the contributions of natural persons to file civil suits in criminal proceedings at the President’s suggestion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u230	Thank you. Thank you for asking. The previous edition, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, stipulated that such contributions should be made on the basis of a corresponding commission, which created some uncertainty as to the obligation to file a suit with the Fund. The proposals proposed by the President of Ukraine provide for the Fund to file civil appeals for the benefit of investors. So the interests of the investors, our citizens with you, will be assured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u231	Thank you. Please, Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u232	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u233	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u234	I have a question for you. Since we've talked a lot, when we adopt this bill to protect the rights of investors, explain it to the whole community. I mean, if the civil suitant is going to be made by the Deposit Guarantee Fund, after the bank's liquidation, who's going to answer that? Who is the responsible party, and how will the requirements of the lawsuit be met?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u235	Thank you, that's a very nice question. That is why the President’s proposal is that after the liquidation, the fund should be able to address civil charges in criminal proceedings, in criminal proceedings, in relation to which the person who is found guilty of the court’s sentence will be accountable before the law and compensate the investors for the damage.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u236	Thank you. Please, National Deputy of Venislav, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u237	I have a very simple question for you. Please tell me, how will ordinary citizens really feel, as Nestor Petrovich said, that they will experience the implementation of the President's proposals after we vote for them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u238	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. I would like to point out that since we are cleaning up discretion: the fund will be obliged to apply civil appeals, and in that case, if the contribution exceeds the guaranteed minimum, it will not be necessary for our citizens to personally participate in criminal conduct, it will be for them to do so by the Fund to guarantee the investments of individuals that will ultimately enable them to recover their funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u239	Thank you. The word is given to the people's MP, Aleksija Vasilovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u240	Have you handed over the hunchback yet?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u241	Yes, we did. Well, one more time, Gorbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u242	I'm sorry. Can I have a bakum?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u243	Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u244	Sergey Kostinovich, would you please say the above suggestions, do they not deprive ordinary individuals of the right to apply for a suit, with a civil appeal within the limits of criminal conduct in a particular criminal case, in order for them to claim without the Deposit Guarantee Fund? Nevertheless, it seems to me that the legislative proposal in question limits the right of natural persons to a civil suit because it sets up a clear procedure to be followed by a court in the course of criminal proceedings. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u245	Thank you, Alexander, for asking. Dear colleagues, we are amending Article 128 of the Criminal Procedural Code and we are in no way changing an article that envisions who may be a civil prosecutor in criminal conduct. Since we do not change the rights that are enshrined in the general part, my personal opinion is that civil prosecutors can apply independently of the President's proposed proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u246	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion of the President's proposals. And that's why we're moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats, we're moving on to making decisions. I would like to remind you once again that under the Rules we must first vote on the proposals in the order in which they are presented by the President of Ukraine. One proposal, so we only vote one. And then we have to vote on the adoption of the law as a whole. So, dear fellows, I ask you to take your seats. I'll make an offer from the President of Ukraine first. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine, which he put forward, to the Act on the Amendment to Article 128 of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on the features of the acquisition by the Fund of Guaranteeing the Contributions of Individuals of Civil Prosecutor Status (project registration number 4547). First, we vote in favour of the proposal by the President of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:22:44]] For 258. Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, I propose to put to the vote the adoption of the law as a whole, with the already considered proposal of the President of Ukraine. So I'm adopting, in general, with the President of Ukraine's proposals, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 128 of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on the features of acquisition by the Civil Prosecutor Status Guarantee Fund (Registration No. 4547). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:23:32]] For 258. Decision taken. Please, Motovlover from the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u247	Please change the order of the examination and move on to the Ukrainian Law 2110, the Law on Public Electronic Registers (second reading). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u248	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer? Here's a suggestion: To go to the 2110 bill now, it's about public electronic registers (second reading). And then we're going to call it a break because we agreed that we would meet again with the faction leaders on the list of amendments. And since this break is going to be 30 minutes, we're actually closing the plenary session. If such a proposal is accepted, let us vote to now move on to question 2110. Please vote. [[14:24:38]] For 290 Decision taken. I invite Stepa Sergey Sergiyyovich, head of the Digital Transformation Committee subcommittee. Dear colleagues, will anyone have any comments? Because I've looked at, almost all the adjustments are included. It won't? No, it won't, thank you. That's why, dear fellows, I'm putting it to a vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law on Public Electronic Registers (Registration No. 2110) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical law. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:25:39]] For 282
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u249	Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Dear colleagues, Danilo Alexandrovich. Well, then, look.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider the next Law in the order of the day 5865. This is a very important law on financial pyramids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, can we vote on it in the first reading without discussion? This is the first reading, my friends. [[B in m in s a l in]] Danilo Alexandrovich, let's make a deal then. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me? The procedure is Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u252	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! We have today's agenda with several ratifications of the two, I understand, of the kind that relate to the partnership and the withdrawal of the treaty with it. This is, without question, a discussion. But there is a bill on the ratification of the Framework Military Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Turkish Republic. I propose now that we do not discuss 0119. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u253	No objection to 0119? Now. Please, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u254	Dear Mr. Head, in expressing your utmost respect, I would like to remind you that it is during the first reading of the drafts that they are discussed and, in the second, only amendments if they are. But not to be said that the opposition is now acting on the principle of what is worse, the better, if there is consensus in the room, we will certainly not deny it. But we ask that we respect our rights, namely the rights to discuss drafts in the first reading. Already with this turbulence, I'm sorry, they've been working on the pen that we're correcting what we were "turbing" at the time. Therefore, if there is consensus, we do not deny it, but we ask that we respect the right of the Ukrainian people's deputies to discuss draft legislation when considering the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u255	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. I have deep respect for all the rights of national deputies and have therefore made this proposal for a consensus solution. That's what I understand. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. Put one more minute out of the procedure and then we'll come to a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u256	Jaroslav Jurchisin, “Justice. ” The bill has a negative conclusion from the anticorruption committee. Unfortunately, he's not on the site, so there's actually no way to look at him. So Bill 5865 should be postponed, and ideally worked on the committee to avoid any corruption, they are essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u257	Then let's put it this way: 5865 we won't bet. Let's do that. We're going to bet, no objections to putting in 0119? No one? Dear colleagues, then I propose to vote that the draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Military Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey (number 0119) be adopted as a whole. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:29:39]] For 303 Decision taken. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u258	Dear colleagues, then the half - hour recess is announced and the sitting is today. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I would like to remind you that at 16 the extraordinary planning session of the Supreme Council, convened by the President of Ukraine, will begin. We're all waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u259	Thank you. And I invite the factions and groups to my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-18-m0.u260	And also Klochka and Bezgin.
