ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please invite your colleagues to the hall. I inform you that in response to the demands of the President of Ukraine and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You have been given the opportunity to get to know them. So I'm asking the national deputies to prepare for electronic registration. I remind you that once the registration is started, it is necessary to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and hold it until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Are you ready to register? Please register. [[16:06:31]] There are 250 national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, before we move on to the agenda, a statement came from two factions, from the "minister of the people" faction and the "Trust" faction, with a break with a replacement for the performance. I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zupánin Andriy Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Andrew Zupanin, "Serial of the People" faction. Today, there is quite a list of issues for an out - of - turn session of Parliament. However, I would like to draw your attention to the bill under number 2553. This is a bill that we drafted with a team from the Ministry of Energy, also from the NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Its main goal is to introduce accounting and calculations into the natural gas market for gas volumes in energy units. Today, a distinguished colleague from the "Fatherland" faction said that bills should be human-centred, at the center of every bill should be human. So at the center of our bill is the consumer of natural gas. Our bill, despite such a large name, consists of several key things. First, from May 1, 2022, we're going to move away from the Soviet system of natural gas calculation and move on to the European calculation methodology, namely kilowatt-hours. You're going to ask what that would give the consumer. First, the consumer will finally start paying, not for the volume of natural gas, but for its quality and efficiency. It can compare the efficiency of natural gas as a heating device, for example, just like electricity, because we're going to bring together a common denominator for calculating these energy resources. And we're also going to forget about the freezing coefficients. Maybe you've heard gas suppliers, gas distributors, add up to consumers some kind of cost for, like, freezing coefficients. With the adoption of our law, we will simply forget about this problem. In addition, when we worked on the committee bill, we responded to a number of problems that emerged in the gas market, literally in this heating season. First of all, we're going to set the price of the gas that's set for the population to bring together the owners of the multi-housing buildings. This will work from the moment this law is passed. Secondly, those consumers who are now without a supplier for reasons that do not depend on them will be able to get gas at NAC Naftogaz Ukraine at a price that is also set for the population. We're talking about 600,000 consumers all over Ukraine right now. And finally, budget institutions that couldn't get gas from last-hop suppliers because they were deprived of essentially without a supplier, we're going to give them the right to make contracts quickly and get gas from NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. So, as I said, the main purpose of this law is the consumer, the main object of this law is the consumer and the main beneficiary of this law is the consumer. I beg you to sit down until the end of today's non-commissioned session and support our bill under registration number 2553. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. We're starting with Bill 6197. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the functioning of the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education. Dear colleagues, this bill requires the inclusion of 226 votes in the agenda. My fellow Members, I am asking everyone to vote and support the inclusion of this bill, because the situation that has arisen in connection with the Supreme Court's decision, in principle, requires Parliament's active position on this issue, and this bill is extremely urgent. So I'm making a proposal, asking you to support inclusion and this bill after that in general. So I'm now voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the 6197 bill, this is a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the functioning of the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:11:21]] For 275 Decision taken. Next, I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner, and we need 150 votes to make the decision. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:11:45]] For 235 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation, Sergio Vitaliyovich Babak. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich, you're both from the committee, and from the authors, four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u4	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Everyone concerned with education knows that the Supreme Court of October 13th cancelled the results of the 2018 competition on the election of members of the National Agency for the quality of higher education. Right away, without any panic, all the diplomas issued on the basis of the accreditations made earlier by this agency will be real, and there are no problems. But there are risks. Because the National Agency is currently unable to perform its functions through a court decision, there are certain risks that there will be a delay in the issuance of master's degrees that will be issued in December, January and later in the following year. There are also potential problems with the recruitment of foreigners to uncredited programmes, because accreditation matters are now in the National Agency for Quality Education. The Supreme Court, in its decision, saw the legal conflict that exists in article 19 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. In fact, the draft Law 6197 is designed to remedy this situation. There are three main points. First. The commission is being rectified, and the competition has been canceled. The other one. The first, to be precise, is the zero strength of the National Agency, which has never worked and was cancelled by amendments to the Higher Education Act, is considered zero. And the third standard. The Cabinet of Ministers is now given the right to assign a temporary composition to the National Agency, to cancel the competition that is going on, and to announce a new one, but after the article, according to the standard that we are about to correct with you. The committee unanimously supported the draft Law 6197 and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a whole. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u5	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u6	Please pass the word to Rostislav Pavlovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u7	Rostislav Pavlenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u8	Thank you. Rostislav Pavlovenko, "European Solidarity". Dear colleagues, I hope that this bill will unite the Hall today, because there is indeed a conflict that needs an immediate solution. And there, I don't think there's going to be a lot of thought, and I hope that the decision is going to be very quick and the only one, right. But I wanted to point out to you, colleagues, that the situation in the country requires a series of other equally urgent decisions. Thank you to all the factions, all the colleagues who signed up for the next oxygen concentration session. We are also looking forward to a quick decision and consideration of this issue, and we are also calling for the support of legislation that applies to local self-government, assistance in the protection of citizens from tariffs, and the proper use of budgetary issues, 6218 and 6006, I think, should also be put into the day-to-day order and considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u9	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u10	Please hand over Natalia Pippa.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u11	Pippa Nina Romanovna, please. Natalia Romanovna. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u12	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Ukrainians! Natalia Pippa, Lviv, 115th District, Justice Group. We will definitely support this bill. The situation surrounding the NAME is very clear about the need to reform a judicial system that lives, not by the spirit of the law, but by the letter of the law. This is another reason for us to continue the judicial reform that has begun. That's the first one. The other one. I think that the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education is the best that's been in higher education in recent years, and in particular I fully trust the integrity and professionalism of this composition. Of course, I'm not a judicial authority whose decision in this case has an impact on the composition OF THE NAME, but our position is that we should take this colossal and allow all our magistrates, who would in January, February, to get their diplomas, to get them. And in February, everyone who comes to study abroad has to come to the programmes accredited by this composition. It is this bill that allows this collegiate to be removed and unlocked by the issuance of diplomas for this year. I very much ask that we all make the same effort and everyone who understands about education, that the next composition of the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education is virtuous and professional, like this. I can also say that in recent years a large number of programs have been accredited, if I'm not mistaken, about 2,000, and for the coming years there are plans to double them. It's very valuable and valuable. And everyone who really hurts for the quality of our higher education and the exit of higher education to the international level understands the contribution of this agency to Ukraine's higher education and at the international level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u13	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, the "Fatherland" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, the situation has really arisen, after the Supreme Court's decision, we have a very important function in the field of education. But, if you've noticed, the science-expert administration has made two serious remarks that prevent us from accepting now both first and second readings. But once we've had a brief negotiation, the head of the committee, the head of the subcommittee, the head of the Supreme Council, and we've come to terms of order so that we don't fall into court again, we need to make two, maybe, technical adjustments, but they're very important. First order of business. We're delegating to the government to solve this issue. And the government is who? Who determines the quantity and quality of the National Agency? Two dozen ministers, Minister of Energy, Minister of Economics -- who brings it in? Of course, the Ministry of Education and Science is logical. Period. We know it's his department, it's his department, and it's responsible for the people he brought in. And the second. There is no more permanent in Ukraine than temporary. Let's set limits: yes, until the competition is over, but no later than six months. Ruslan Alexiyovich, we've just arranged with you to unlock the process, we're voting first and second reading to all the halls. But tomorrow, on the committee, we're going to get these amendments right, and we're going to make sure that the law is perfect, and on Thursday, we're going to say, yes, we're going to make sure that the law is perfect. And we, again, don't prove to God, press the court's decision on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u15	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. Yes, I absolutely confirm, and I ask you to support today as a whole. If the committee discovers any gangs in one or the other language tomorrow, then I will ask the committee to decide, I will take advantage of the right granted to me by 131 articles of the Rules, and I will make these amendments so that we can only vote on them. And already this week, Ukraine has received a very important law from which we will receive the continuity and legacy of our higher education. It's a matter of all of us. Thank you. Next, I give the floor to Lubinci Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP's Party for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u16	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Constanceevich Irina Miroslavni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u17	Please, Irina Miroslavna Konstankevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u18	Irina Konstankevich, 23rd constituency, Volin. Of course, the Future Group, as the majority national deputies, will support everything related to improving the quality of higher education. And this bill, which can actually blow up, solve a crisis situation that has arisen in higher education, is essentially an extreme solution to a problem that has not been created in the first year. And I want to say that we're going to vote today, we're going to support this bill with those technical papers that we just talked about, but I'd like to ask the profiling committee to take over the issue of the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education. In view of the fact that we have more than once heard complaints about the work of the NAME, in particular about the cost of paying for accredited programs, about how much money is being squeezed out of universities, I would ask that the profile committee pay attention and that the quality of education was fully ensured not only by legislative provisions but also by the control plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u19	Thank you, Irina Miroslavina. I understand that, Julia Mikolayevna Grishna, and then anyone else wants to? I see, yes. Two more speeches, then we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, this bill is vital and urgent for Ukrainian higher education and that is why. Indeed, the decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to block the work of the NAME was because of the cancellation of the appointment of members of that agency. So today we have a situation where no one actually works there, except for the NANAME, and we now have no one in Ukraine to decide on the accreditation of educational programs. If you and I don't now vote on this bill, what happens next? First. Most graduate students who have been graduating for a few months will not receive a diploma. The other one. Foreign students, who now have an introductory campaign, will not be able to join most of Ukraine's higher education institutions. And the third. In June, we won't be able to give diplomas to our masters and bachelors. This could be a collapse, colleagues. So we're proposing a solution to this situation in this bill, which has already been reported. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u21	Thank you. And please make the final statement of National Deputy Larissa Bilozer, and then we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u22	Larissa Bilozer, Winnitzkin. Dear colleagues, indeed, the NAME needs to be unlocked. But members of the committee propose that, in addition to correcting the situation with the representation of no more than one person from the field of knowledge, the deadlines be deleted. Therefore, these technical amendments, Ruslan Alexiyovich, should be made in 131 articles, since there is a comment by GNEU. And here, too, who's going to serve the Cabinet of Ministers, the colleagues have already talked about whether it should be the Ministry of Education, whether it should be the College of the Ministry of Education, or the Competition Commission. So this legal uncertainty of these issues needs to be made, because it reopens the way for the prosecution and decision-making of the temporary formulation of the NAME. And it takes up to six months at a time, too, because there is also no definition. So what the GNEU says must be done. And the "Trust" group, in turn, will support it in the first and second readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u23	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we are moving to a vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that we will make a proposal to the committee first to accept as a basis, if its support is to be accepted as a whole with the necessary technical and legal amendments. But if the committee then sees that something needs to be adjusted, he'll make a decision tomorrow, pass it on to me, and then we'll be done by the end of this week with 131 articles of the Rules. Therefore, my dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the functioning of the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education (registration number 6197). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[16:25:31]] For 307 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, since this is part of our purpose, I therefore propose to the committee the adoption of a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the functioning of the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education (registration number 6197). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:26:13]] For 309 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Hello. Yeah, let's move on. The next bill, this is the second reading, the draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the use of property-free municipal secondary education in rural areas, is the second reading (project registration number 5230). I'm inviting you. Is there a need to discuss this bill? None. We can take it without talking, right? Dear colleagues, then me. It's a second reading, so no discussion, yes. I ask, no one insists on repairs? No, it's not. I therefore propose to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the use of property of decommissioned secondary education institutions in rural areas (project registration number 5230). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:27:31]] For 304 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill is the first reading, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Nationality Act on simplifying the acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship by foreigners and non-citizens who participated in the protection of Ukraine's territorial integrity and integrity. This is a project of the Cabinet of Ministers. Is there a need to discuss it? Yes. Then I would like to start by offering to consider this issue in a simplified way. We need to get 150 votes. So please support and vote. [[16:28:23]] For 254 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Bogdan Evgenovich Drapítý. Please, Bogdan Eugeneovich, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u24	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, there is an extremely important bill that applies to those who have participated in the protection of the territorial integrity and integrity of our nation and which is designed to implement Presidential Decree No. 594 of 13 August 2019. The purpose of the bill is to simplify the order of acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship by foreigners: who in the established Ukrainian legislation have been or are engaged in military service under contract in the Ukrainian Armed Forces; who have outstanding merits before Ukraine, or whose admission to Ukrainian citizenship is State interest; foreigners who are serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and are awarded State awards; and foreigners who are nationals of a state recognised by the Ukrainian Supreme Council by the Aggressor State or the occupying State who have suffered persecution because of political beliefs. The bill proposes, inter alia, a settlement of the issue of the possibility of submitting a declaration of refusal to foreign citizenship together with an application for admission to Ukrainian citizenship without requiring them to submit supporting documents indicating the withdrawal from the citizenship of a state of nationality of their nationality. It is important that, to this day, such foreigners who have accepted Ukrainian citizenship cannot fulfill their obligations to cease their previous citizenship because they need to turn to the embassy of their country, which may threaten their freedom. The bill also imposes certain restrictions: in particular, those who commit crimes against humanity or commit genocide or commit acts in the territory of another State recognized by Ukrainian legislation as a serious and particularly serious crime. Thus, the adoption of the proposed bill will simplify the rules of citizenship for those who really need it and, most importantly, deserve their actions and actions in relation to Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u25	Thank you, Bogdan Eugeneovich. I invite the head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations of Dmitr Valeriyovich Lubinz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u26	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Our committee has considered the bill. It's filed by the Cabinet of Ministers. It was developed at the request of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 13 August 2019 on simplifying the acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship by foreigners and non-citizens who have taken part in measures to ensure national security and defence of Ukraine and citizens of the Russian Federation who have suffered persecution because of political conviction. In particular, the project provides for the possibility of submitting a declaration of refusal of foreign citizenship, together with an application for admission to Ukrainian citizenship, by such categories of persons who, in accordance with the Ukrainian law, are taking part in or were engaged in military service under contract in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who are awarded military service and are awarded Ukrainian State awards, which have outstanding merit before Ukraine, which are nationals of a state recognised by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as an aggressor state. Dear National MPs, virtually all central executives support the adoption of this bill without any warning, including the State Migration Service, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The only thing in the Ministry of Defense is a proposal for improvement. I'm sure we can fix those warnings by the second reading. Also, according to the Chief Research Administration, they generally recommend the adoption of this bill. I call on the entire House to support this legislative initiative and to enable those citizens who have protected our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u27	Thank you, Dmitri Valeriovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Ariev Volodymyr Igorovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u28	Please pass the word to Jani Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u29	Jan Vadimovna Zinkevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u30	Thank you. 5630 is indeed an extremely important bill awaited by hundreds of our veterans, active military personnel and volunteers. Our faction fully supports it and will, of course, vote yes. The need for such a law is due to the inability to obtain a number of foreign fighters, such as Russians, Ukrainian Belaruss, because of the need to stop citizenship, for example, in the aggressor country. But I also want to point out that even the best laws need to be implemented very well. Because we all remember what happened in July 2019, when there was such a great enough pierar of President Zelensky that he gave citizenship to volunteer fighters. At that time, more than 20 individuals were granted temporary citizenship. They were given a deadline for two years, which they have in the aggressor country as if to hand over their basic documents, get a deposit, and then just get a permanent citizenship. What happened at the bottom of it. In July of this year, all these people took their temporary citizenship, and they were deprived of any documents at all. In doing so, they were blocked by bank accounts, or migration services. And I would like to remind you of the example of the famous fighter, Yulia Tolopa, who had already given birth to a child here, fought in the Armed Forces, but she's been sitting isolated for several months now and she doesn't even have a normal bank card. So I ask everyone to take into account that this law must be subject to very serious control and that it should be done in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u31	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rudik Kiri Alexandrovni, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u32	I give the word to Roman Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u33	Roman Costenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u34	Roman Costenko, the Voice faction. The Voice faction will support this bill. We think it's very important, and we think that the people who protected our country on the front should be able to become citizens of this country. But at the same time, we're also talking about that this bill needs to be developed into a second reading, and we need to put in clear safeguards so that some can't use it and there's no double interpretation. So once again, I urge everyone to support this bill in the first reading, and we, the Voice faction, will support it, and we will work together on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u35	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u36	Please pass the word to Dmitri Valeriusz Lubinz.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u37	Dmitry Valeriovich Lubinets, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u38	Dear National Deputies! We have considered this bill carefully at our committee meeting, and we ask that it be supported. In fact, even now we've had a discussion among the people's deputies, who's going to control it, who's going to get citizenship if this bill is adopted? I want to tell you that, first of all, there's a note from the Ministry of Defense, and we're going to work on that second reading right there. And the main thing is that if a citizen of any foreign state came to the territory of our state, took up arms, officially made a contract with the Armed Forces of Ukraine, it was on the fore, and it was clearly stated that it was necessary to stay either in the ATO zone or in the OOS area of operation of the United Forces, only then could he acquire citizenship on a simplified order. These people have already proved in their lives, their health, that they wanted and protected our nation, and now they want to become citizens of our country. Why can't we give them that right? Most of all, very often, such citizens are being persecuted, they're from the Russian Federation, they're from Belarus, they're legally unable to give up the citizenship of these countries, because it's clear that those countries will never give them that consent in writing. So this simplifies order, it's going to be, it's already our citizens, it's our people, they've already proven that they're in the soul of the Ukrainians. Why can't we as national deputies give them that opportunity? We have been contacted by public organizations, practically everyone who unites the veterans of the ATO and the OOS. They all support the adoption of this bill. That's why we urge you, and the MPs will vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u39	Thank you, Dmitri Valeriovich. Please, Jegor Chernev, and then we will proceed to the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, a moment of attention, please. It's a really important bill, because imagine, people, citizens of the Russian Federation, who came to Ukraine against Putin's politics, didn't recognize the occupation of Crimea, took arms on our land, on Ukrainian soil, protecting this land, even spilling blood. And now some of them have been given temporary citizenship, but they have an obligation to withdraw from the citizenship of the Russian Federation. Do you understand what it's like to get out of the citizenship of the Russian Federation, that is, to get these people to the Russian Embassy? That's impossible. So I'm asking you to adopt this law on simplifying the procedure so that they can make an exclusive declaration, and they're safe, and they're citizens of our country. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? There is a proposal for the committee to take as a basis. After we vote for it, I hope we'll accept the hall, as you look, I'm calling on the committee head to shorten the deadlines for second reading so that we can adopt this bill as a whole for the next plenary week? Is there any objection? Okay. Then I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Nationality Act on simplifying the acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship by foreigners and stateless persons who participated in the protection of Ukraine's territorial integrity and integrity (project registration number 5630). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[16:41:03]] For 302 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, as we have said, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments and to prepare for the second reading of the bill registration number 5630:– the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Nationality Act on simplifying the acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship by foreigners and stateless persons who have participated in the protection of Ukraine's territorial integrity and integrity. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:42:00]] For 294 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, for supporting this important bill. The next bill is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality concerning the jurisdiction of cases before the Supreme Court as a court of first instance (project registration number 5067, 5067-1 5067-2). Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Then let me ask you, let's first support the consideration of these bills by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:42:48]] For 249 We're starting to consider this with a reduced procedure. I invite you to welcome Deputy Justice Minister Alexander Anatoliyovich. Please, Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u42	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, your thoughts are presented by a bill tabled by the President of Ukraine as urgent, under number 5067 and under the title "To amend the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine on the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court as a court of first instance." The bill foresees that cases concerning the prosecution of legal acts by the Cabinet of Ministers, ministries, other central executive authorities and entities whose powers are extended throughout Ukraine will be considered by the Supreme Court as the court of first instance. This will mean that these cases against the Cabinet of Ministers, ministries, central executives and other authorities together, as the Supreme Court is now considering, will be dealt with by the Supreme Court, as is now the case with the Central Electoral Commission's decisions, the acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Justice and the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges. And this feature is due to the complexity of the cases, and the Supreme Court's consideration of them will be more effective and more qualitative. The specificity of this bill, too, provides for a different composition of the College of Judges in dealing with these cases. If the case relates to the accusation of a legal act by the Cabinet of Ministers, the bill foresees what will happen. The college must be composed of a cassation court, at least five judges in the Supreme Court. If the charges against other entities - ministries, central executive authorities, other entities - are to be made up of at least three judges. The bill provides for the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court to be an appeal. Thank you for your attention and for your support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have two other alternative bills, but the authors of these bills do not insist on reports on these issues. So I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich, to participate in the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u44	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! The purpose of this law, the purpose of this bill, is to raise the level of protection of the rights and interests of Ukrainian citizens. The point is that any legal act adopted by either the government or the central executive authority, or the National Bank, can be brought before the Supreme Court of Cassation and Administration. And in that case, the Great Chamber will be an appeal to this dispute. Why is this being done? The aim is to ensure that these legal acts, which relate to the rights and interests of practically every citizen, are not dealt with in the Kyiv District Administrative Court, but are immediately considered by the highest court in Ukraine, which will deal with these issues in a collegiate capacity, not by a single judge, as is currently the case. So I would like to urge you to support this bill, which has been carefully studied at the committee level. We discussed it with representatives of the judiciary, the Supreme Court. There have been some suggestions concerning, for example, the second reading of it to be processed and referred to the Supreme Court as the Court of First Instance, the legal and regulatory acts of the Cabinet of Ministers, and other acts of the executive branch to the Court of Appeal of Kiev. Therefore, the committee will work on these issues for the second reading and for the time being the decision of the committee: recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the courts of the Supreme Court cases (No. 5067) to be adopted on the basis of which alternatives 5067-1, 5067-2 should be rejected. It is also suggested that the Head of the Supreme Council apply the first part of article 116 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u45	Thank you, Andrey Evgenovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss these bills? Yes. Then I ask you to register: two, two, against, for a detailed and comprehensive discussion of these important legislative initiatives. The word is given to the national deputy Rušišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u46	Please pass the word to Jurchino Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u47	Please, Juršin Jaroslav Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u48	My dear fellows, congratulations, at last we have approached what more than 25,000 of our citizens have demanded of us -- this is a glorious nation of government, and we have given you and me some effectiveness through petitions, namely the elimination of the so-called "wolve" court, the Kyiv District Administrative Court. The problem is that this court has actually become synonymous with corruption. It's a shame that we've spent a lot and a lot of time in order to consider at least the first reading of the President's initiative, which is recognized as a priority, an urgent one. You can really improve this mechanism, you can really develop it, but exactly what we need to understand is not a person who deserves to argue with power, especially with central authority, actually go to the District Administrative Court and not have an adequate decision, but probably have a purchased decision for those who have more money. She does not deserve to go to court where judges compete in political prostitution. Therefore, of course, it is urgent to support the committee's decision, to work quickly, and finally to show that what the President decides, at the request of the people, must be dealt with without delay. And it'll be very interesting to see who votes "for" saving, and who votes "against." I mean, who, for saving the District Administrative Court, might you be involved?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u49	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Fedienek Alexander Pavlovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u50	Dear citizens of Ukraine, what this bill is proposing to you for consideration by the President of Ukraine. This bill on the development of the Institute of Administrative Justice. Of course, in 2005, when the Code of Administrative Justice was adopted in Ukraine and the system of administrative courts was established, a very large step forward was taken to ensure that every Ukrainian citizen could enforce his constitutional right to sue illegal actions or decisions by subjects of authority. But in the process of applying this important tool to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens, a number of systemic problems have emerged. And these systemic problems are that today, as my colleagues have said, the Kyiv District Administrative Court has the opportunity (and the District Administrative Court, this may be made up of one judge) to find illegal the act of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine, the Ministry and another central executive body whose jurisdiction extends throughout Ukraine. And as the committee head rightly said, these acts and decisions apply to all citizens of Ukraine. And of course, having such a sadly notorious Kyiv District Administrative Court, to expect it to make a just and justly legitimate decision based on the ideas of the rule of law, there is often no basis. Thus, by enacting this law, we raise the line: we recognize the illegal acts of the central executive authorities by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And it's a completely proportional and doable legal regulation. The People's Party will support this bill. And I urge everyone to join in his support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u51	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Taras Ivanovich Batenka, the MP's Party for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u52	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u53	Sergei Jaroslavovich Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, we don't raise anything by this bill. There's no such thing as a bill against the Wolf. This bill is designed to prevent almost no one in our country from suing the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And I wasn't wrong. Once this law has been passed, there will be little chance of suing the issue of raising tariffs. After voting for this bill, we will sue the government and individual authorities for their decisions. Because the appeal, which is the Great Court of Justice, will be overrun by hundreds and thousands of such cases, to the great and great regret. So, fellows, take my word for it, if we have a champion in the fight against the crown virus, I've become such a champion in the administrative judiciary thanks to these "servants." 53 administrative courts are the result of an election campaign in 19th year, of which 3 is the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court. And they often met only because of one reason that during the election campaign the courts were obliged to deal with lawsuits within two days, and in all other cases they were not obliged. So if you want Ukrainian citizens to pursue justice for years, vote. And if you want to fight the Wolf, take it down and don't spoil it with foolish reforms.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u55	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u56	Thank you, Mr. Head. Your Honor, is this bill about the liquidation of the court? Yes. But it's not about decommissioning the district administration. This bill on the liquidation of the Court of Cassation, I am deeply convinced. Because after the adoption of the Law on so-called procedural filters in this room, we've put a tremendous strain on the judges of the Court of Cassation that they are now, each of them has to deal with thousands of cases over the course of a year! If we put on them now tens of thousands more of the cases that are in the Kyiv District Court of Administration, and also most of the categories of cases they're going to be sitting in a judicial college of at least five judges, that means we're not actually going to have a Court of Cassation. Judges will be drowned in such a number of cases that they will simply have to make a formal visit without presiding over them. What's more, as far as the Great Chamber, where there are only 20 judges of the Supreme Court doing justice properly, that means that there will be no one who can appeal these cases and get justice in them for many years. Guys, let's talk about OASK. But what kind of OASK do you eliminate, and what do you take from it if you transfer to the Supreme Court only the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers and the decree of the National Bank, and you leave action and inactivity in OASK? I assure you, as a well educated person, 99 percent of the cases will be about actions and inactivity in the OASC, and in parallel they will be brought before the Supreme Court to block both there and there, to create chaos and the most terrifying – legal uncertainty that we are fighting. Therefore, such a bill certainly cannot be voted on. It needs to be re-readed and even better returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative in order to determine the concept he is promoting to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded discussions that no longer wish to speak. People's deputies please take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to vote on the committee's proposal to adopt, on the basis of the committee's proposal to take the proposed clarifications into account when preparing for the second reading, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of Bill No. 5067. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine on the jurisdiction of cases before the Supreme Court as a court of first instance. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:57:18]] For 254 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. The next bill is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the Accounting of Excise Taxes for the Realization of Subjects of the Retail Trade in Tobacco Products (project registration number 5719). Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Then I will first address the issue with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:58:07]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite a reporter, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Danil Alexandrovich Getmanchev. Engineer Andriy Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, please support Law 5719. In Law 5,600, we centralize excise taxes. It is 5719 who automatically administers it and protects local budgets. We ask very much for the support of this law, which is supported by the Association of Cities, which is supported by the committee. Please vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u59	Andriy Viktorovich, I love your shortness, the sister of talent in the performances. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to the deputy chairman of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Helen Eugenovni Copanczuk. Please, Helen Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u60	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs! On September 8, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered draft Law 5719, which provides for a new order of accounting for rural, rural, urban, excise tax communities with the implementation of tobacco retail operators. This legislative initiative is linked to a change in the mechanism for the administration of such a tax, as set out in Government Bill 5600 on Amendments to the Tax Code. According to the bill, taxes should be distributed by formula and counted against local government budgets on the last day of the next reporting month. The main scientific and expert management and the Association of Cities see such a proposal as questionable because it does not take into account the requirements of budgetary legislation and poses risks to the timely and full implementation of local self-government budgets. Therefore, there is a need to address issues of increased control and responsibility of public authorities in the exercise of their powers in the process of distribution and tax accounting. In addition, the bill requires substantial editorial adjustment, starting with its name, to determine the tax that the committee concludes. In conclusion, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council bill 5719 on the basis of the first reading to be adopted on the basis of the proposals made by the legislators and the Committee’s proposals in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules. He also asks the Head of the Supreme Council to announce the need to make proposals for clarifications, overcoming errors and contradictions in Bill 5719.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss this bill. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Misagina Yuri Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u62	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u63	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Golos". Railman Jaroslav Ivanovich, please
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, the bill itself makes sense. And it is quite common for our tax collectors, unfortunately, to hear from representatives, including small and medium - size businesses, that some goods, in this case we are talking about excise goods, are eaten by mice. And in this way, sometimes half the volume, including matches, is eaten by mice. What does this lead to? Before we as a state don't get taxes, probably what's more interesting about the majors here, that taxes don't get from your local communities. And this bill was about to decide exactly how to make sure that the mice no longer eat cigarettes, especially at points of sale where tax laws are not followed. But what a drawback to this very bill. The only problem is that this bill is inseparable and very related to another 5600 bill, which we all have been discussing here for a very long time, criticizing, making 11,000 287 rights, and then our esteemed 30-hour tax committee is considering it at its meeting. And unfortunately, as an MP who would like to vote in favour of this law and support the filling of local communities, I can't do that because that big brotherly grave called 5,600 was put into that question. That's why I think that all those who vote in favour of 5,600 can support this bill, and representatives like the Voice faction, and, I'm sure, other colleagues, unfortunately, can't support it, as we systematically speak for liberal changes for tax and, in principle, legislation, and not for such dragons as are laid down in 5,600. So be determined by this law, in principle, its contents are not bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u65	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u66	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Of course, in this bill, the authors are now trying to allow local self-government authorities to continue to receive additional revenue from their budgets. Now, what happens is that tobacco excises are paid by those who sell retail, and that's in communities that have joined many rural areas, usually rural shops use little cashiers and show a real state of sale of tobacco and electronic cigarettes. The bill suggests that those who produce and import large exporters be paid to the state budget immediately, offering to automatically add to the relevant local budgets, as has been the case in recent years with fuel exciseion. This is the right, good bill for local governments. So I urge you to take another step today to meet our local self-government and allow local budgets to automatically account for excise, tobacco and electronic cigarettes. Please support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u67	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u68	Please give Nina the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u69	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u70	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished local authorities! When we talk about a high percentage of the shadow economy, the output is just one, everyone has to realize it, especially the tight fiscalizers -- just encouraging norms. That's why in 2015 we introduced excise taxes on retail sales of fuel and tobacco products and had negative effects in the first year because a number of possibilities were found not to reflect actual sales volumes through cashiers. But it was a tool to encourage local authorities to fight against the shadow economy. And that was the right thing to do. And we wanted local budgets to be filled, and so did their local activity. What we did. Since 2016, they have responded very quickly, and in a year they have analyzed and corrected the error of adding a fractional tax to the base rate, which is 5 percent of the excise duty that importers and fuel manufacturers were to pay, and set a clear rate. 13.44 Excise taxes paid on imports or fuel production should be counted against local budgets. And then once a half year, it's Kabmin's decision to establish a clear distribution of particles according to the RRO data. It was the right decision, everybody knew how to calculate the expected revenue in the local budget. So far, the draft law that we're looking at is actually being criticised by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Because that formula you're proposing to put in the Ukrainian Budget Code there's no room for it at all. This must be regulated at the level of the sub-legal acts. That's why I'm offering to.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who would like to speak? Please, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich is one minute, and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, this bill in the series, you know, and you want to, and you roll and your mom won't let you. On the one hand, it's as if it's positive, because it counts the excise tax on the sale of tobacco and electronic cigarettes to local budgets. But think about how it counts. It contradicts the basic principle of counting such things because planning at the beginning of the year and at the beginning of the current month, no one can know exactly how much money will come into the local budget for this excise. For you to understand, the excise fuel that you just talked about from the rostrum can't be cut off for up to three months, and three months local authorities can't use these funds and predict their arrival. So, honestly, I wouldn't lie in this story, but I would. Do not give local budgets what they can receive by law and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of this bill. People's deputies please take their seats. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote on the committee's proposal to adopt, on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, a draft law on the introduction into the Ukraine Budget Code of Taxation for the implementation of excise duties by operators of retail trade in tobacco products (project registration number 5719). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[17:09:56]] For 268. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. We also have a draft Act amending article 9 with a badge 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices concerning the State Registration of Medical Assets under Commitment (project registration number 6121). Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Then please let's vote on this issue for a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:10:48]] For 241 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to the first Deputy Minister of Health of Komaridu Alejandro Olegovich. Please, two minutes of your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u74	Good afternoon, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People's Deputies! Securing epidemiological security as a component of Ukraine’s national security is one of the important functions of the State in protecting people’s lives. The COVID-19 pandemic has claimed about 5 million lives worldwide, as well as some 60,000 lives of our fellow citizens with you. And the only effective way to protect yourself is to vaccinate against COVID-19, which is being actively carried out today in Ukraine. In addition, we still do not have the opportunity to register a reduced procedure. I thank all the people's deputies who have voted before the law that allowed vaccines to be registered in Ukraine, and now we are one of the unique countries in which there is a choice for the people to be vaccinated with. Therefore, we ask that this bill be supported. It provides for an accelerated state registration of medicines, vaccines, or other immunobiological drugs for treatment or specific prophylaxis of coronary disease. These medical devices should be authorised for emergency medical use by the competent authority of the country where such drugs are produced, namely, countries with strict regulatory policies. The bill is also designed for the production of such medicines, vaccines and other immunobiological drugs that will be produced in Ukraine from "in bullk" or full-cycle products. Therefore, a request to support the bill is made by registration number 6121, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u75	Thank you, Alexander Olegovich. I would like to invite the co-rapporteur of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance of Raducci Mikhail Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u76	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The National Health, Health, and Medical Insurance Committee considered Bill 6121, submitted by the Cabinet of Ukraine, at its meeting. It proposes to extend a valid state registration procedure to a commitment that is now in effect, to all medical devices in any emergency situation or during any quarantine. The committee supports the government legislative initiative in view of the need to speed up the arrival of medicines in Ukraine for specific treatments of COVID that have already emerged in the world, but we consider it necessary to note these standards to medical devices, vaccines and immunobiological drugs exclusively against COVID-19. In this regard, the Committee proposes to use the state registration procedure as a liability for medical supplies, vaccines and other immunobiological drugs intended only for treatment and/or specific prophylaxis of COVID. Excluding India from a list of countries where the registration of medicines, vaccines, and immunobiological drugs may be the basis for their registration in Ukraine. Allow a domestic manufacturer to apply the statutory state registration procedure to an emergency medical application. As a result of its consideration of the bill, the committee adopted a decision recommending to the Supreme Council a draft law amending article 9-2 of the Law on Medical Devices on State registration of medical devices under the first reading to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law, taking into account the proposals made in the Committee's conclusions. And also entrust the committee, together with the GNEU and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with its technical and legal work in preparation for the signing of the Supreme Council. Please support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u77	Thank you, Michael Borisovich. Dear colleagues, since it was necessary to discuss this legislative initiative, please sign up: two in favour, two in opposition to its detailed discussion. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Greenchuk Oksani Anatolyevni, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u78	Please pass the word to Kuzmini Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u79	Sergey Kuzminy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u80	Good afternoon. At the beginning of 2021, you and I passed one of the most important laws under 1159 concerning the state registration of COVID-19 vaccines for emergency medical use. Thanks to this law, the first vaccines were introduced and registered in Ukraine, and we now have about 18 million people vaccinated with us. To save more lives, we need to adopt Law 6121. This bill allows for the registration in Ukraine of innovative drugs, direct drugs from COVID-19, under the same procedure as vaccines from the same disease. These medicines act directly on the virus, speeding up the recovery of patients with coronary disease. We must be with you to protect the Ukrainians from this terrible disease and immediately adopt this law, both in general and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u81	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u82	Thank you. Please give my sister Jani Zinkevich a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u83	Please, Jan Vadimovna Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u84	Thank you. Bill 6121 is indeed necessary and relevant. It creates conditions for accelerated registration of medical devices, vaccines, or other medical immunobiological drugs during an emergency or quarantine. Our faction will support it. But now, besides that, we have a ten times bigger problem, one of the lowest levels of vaccination, of vaccinated citizens in the world. At a time when the level of vaccination of citizens by the world’s first dose is 49.6 percent, we are more than twice as much behind. It's because of the failure of the education and information campaign, because of the beginning of vaccines in the country that are hardly the last, because of the lack of vaccination points, which we see especially acutely now that the available points cannot provide increased demand. The authorities need to be able to get the necessary vaccine as soon as possible, without going through pressure in a multimeter crowd, putting themselves at risk, as well as others. We hope and demand that the necessary steps be taken in the near future, for each additional day of peaking is another 700 of COVID’s dead.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u85	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sowsun Inni Romanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u86	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. My dear colleagues, it is certainly good that we have come to the point of solving the problems with COVID that we are now facing as a nation. The drug registration bill needs to be supported, because we want the Ukrainians to have the right drugs bought on time, with proven effectiveness as much as possible in these difficult conditions that we are in right now. But I would like to remind everyone here that it is not only the medicine that Ukrainian patients need today. Today, 155 members of the people signed an appeal to Parliament’s leadership to convene an extraordinary session of Parliament and to consider a bill on the allocation of funds for the establishment of oxygen stations. We had just heard the presentation of the first Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Komarida. On September 1st, Mr. Komarida signed a letter to the Prime Minister stating that the Ministry of Health needed 1 billion 100 million dollars to provide oxygen stations with all the Ukrainian hospitals that needed it. After that, only a third of this need was covered up by the government. Unfortunately, 700 million are still underfunded. That is why we are now addressing everyone in Parliament to speed up the consideration of this bill so that there is oxygen in Ukrainian hospitals. I very much hope that the budget committee will be able to quickly consider a bill, prepare it for a second reading, and demonstrate that Parliament is able to respond to the challenges that the country faces in the supply of medicines and in the provision of oxygen to hospitals, and in the issue of guarantees that our health workers will have the benefits that the state has promised them. I look forward to the unity of Parliament in this and other issues of the fight against COVID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u87	Thank you. I invite you to the words of Ukrainian National Deputy Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, MP Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u88	Please give the word to Irina Miroslavni Konstankevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u89	Irina Miroslavna Konstanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u90	Dear National Deputies! The members of the Future Group will of course support this bill, because we understand the relevance, value and importance of what it offers. But, at the same time, we would like to emphasize that extreme forms of work, unfortunately, are not as effective as they would like to be. And the government would still have to plan the work during the pandemic, not only to foresee extreme forms, but also to plan both the second and the third, and perhaps the next waves of the fight against the pandemic. Thus, it was necessary to improve the facilities in hospitals in advance, predict, and improve the condition of the district hospitals. In addition to oxygen, there are no drugs, and there are no drugs. And we, as Marjorie MPs, know this critical situation as best we can. For example, we worked in the districts for the last week. And what I'm saying is that we've accumulated these situations over a dozen. Therefore, my appeal is addressed to the Ministry of Health, the government, so that not only emergency forms of work can be applied, but they can be as supportive as possible of health care, and they can support the needs of the districts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u91	Thank you, Irina Miraculous. Dear colleagues, please, Larissa Bilozer, and then we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, Ukrainians! The bill proposes that an accelerated state registration be allowed for emergency medical use of medicines, vaccines, and other medical immunobiological drugs. I don't think it's as urgent as the pressing problems that we still can't solve. Mrs. Sowsun made it very clear that today only 400 million people have been allocated instead of a billion 200 million at the oxygen station. To this day they're locked in the State Department, it's blocked by the M.O.S. And instead of building oxygen stations to provide antiviral drugs like remdesivir that patients need, and so far they're not in place, we vote for other drugs. Let's finally vote on the change in the type of budget as soon as possible, and more precisely.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this important matter. And please, Sergius Mikolaiovich, with one minute's motivation. Then we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u94	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, obviously, in order for us to deal with all the consequences and all the challenges that this virus now dictates to us is a huge Delta and Delta Plus, and I remind you, right now, this virus is raging, we need not just to think about providing the hospital with the necessary medicines, we need to think about the oxygen, we need to think about the wages for those nurses, for those doctors who are struggling with this disease, and we need to think about treating the coronary patients. That's why we think of it as the "Paternity" faction, and we need to immediately hold an emergency session, make changes to the budget, and anticipate the possibility of allocating money to pay to all the doctors who are now treating people, Ukrainians from the coronavirus. Instantly predict money for remdesivir and other medical treatments for the sick. And now foreordained.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to take the floor. There's a proposal on the ground as a whole, but we're going to vote gradually. Adopt a draft Act amending article 9 with the symbol 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices on State Registration of Medical Liabilities (project registration number 6121). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:25:33]] For 262 Decision taken. I would now like to propose a further proposal to the committee to adopt in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Law amending article 9 with the symbol 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices concerning the State Registration of Medicinal Products for Commitment (project registration number 6121). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:26:14]] For 262 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Then we finally have time to make this decision, the regulation on additional measures against the spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (project registration number 6154). Is there a need to discuss this? Then let me ask you, let's first vote on the proposal to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please support and vote. [[17:27:10]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite the head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Michael Borisovich Raduccik. But I do have a request to the honourable national deputies. Let's at least consider and adopt this decision with full compliance with the mascot regime in the hall, because it would be strange if we voted without masks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u96	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, first of all I would like to remind you both of ourselves and of you that we are all nothing but Ukrainian citizens. So in accepting this decision, we need to understand that everything we demand from Ukrainian citizens is primarily to demand of ourselves. Your opinion is proposed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on additional measures to combat the spread of coronary disease, designed to ensure the continued work of Parliament in the context of the peak spread of COVID-19. Unfortunately, the epidemic of the spread of coronary disease in Ukraine continues to worsen, and most of the regions match the red zone. In this regard, the government has strengthened the anti-epidemic measures and introduced the obligation of preventive vaccination against COVID-19 for employees of all executive authorities and educational institutions. I believe that, under such conditions, Parliament cannot be an exception, and the same rules apply to all. We therefore propose to set additional conditions for admission to Parliament's premises and to grant permission to Ukrainian national deputies, employees and parliamentary visitors, as well as representatives of the media only for one of the following documents: vaccination certificate – one or two doses, result of negative PLR tests or antigen-tests, guidance on recovery of persons from COVID-19. In view of the fact that the implementation of the proposed measures takes some time for the Supreme Council's apparatus to provide technical support for their implementation, the committee proposes that such clarifications be made to the draft regulation, that the age of the persons to whom it is distributed be determined. Instruct the Supreme Council apparatus to provide security posts that allow individuals to enter the administrative buildings of the Supreme Council with the necessary technical means. Organize in the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the plenary weeks vaccinations against COVID-19. Define the dates of this decision to be valid from the time of the equipment, but no later than 15 November 2021. The Ministry of Health will support this decision. In view of the above, the Committee recommends that the draft Supreme Council Regulation (Registration No. 6154) be adopted on the basis of and in general, taking into account the proposals made in the Committee's conclusion, and that the Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, be entrusted with the technical and legal drafting of the decision when preparing it for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council. Please support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u97	Thank you, Mikhailo Borisovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this draft decision? Please sign up: two in, two in. Again, I turn to those who have heard but who have not put on the mask. The masks must be worn in such a way that it is covered with both nose and mouth. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kuznietsov Alexy Alexanderovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u98	Please pass the word to Lady Bullach.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u99	Please, Anna Bullach. Lady Bullach.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u100	This decision is designed by our committee and I will explain why. In fact, Kiev is in the red zone today, and we're geographically working right here. In theory, all the restrictions imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers are extended to our work. But the restrictive measures defined by the Cabinet of Ministers are not distributed to the Supreme Council. That's why we have to demonstrate our favor and accept these requirements, and the new rules of admission are not just for parliamentarians. The ruling applies to any journalist, the Supreme Council's apparatus, all of our assistants and, of course, the parliamentarians themselves, the admission to the Supreme Council's premises. But these requirements are no different from those laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers for other Ukrainian citizens. It's one or two vaccines that are confirmed by the vaccine certificate. The other one. This is a negative test of the polymerized chain reaction that man has made over the last two days. Or the evidence that a person has recovered from a coronary infection in the last six months. All three options are possible for a person to confirm his or her ability to go to work. And this will form a healthy way of doing our work and provide for each of us, making it impossible to get infected with a coronary infection. Let's make our work safe. We're going to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u101	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Stefanishini Olga, the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u102	Colleagues, I told you, 700 people died yesterday from COVID-19. Today there was a terrible figure that by the end of the year we could reach almost 100,000 dead Ukrainians from COVID-19. Today, more than 95 percent of people in the hospital are not vaccinated by Ukraine. And you don't have to invent a bicycle, and many of the countries of the developed world have already introduced rules: vaccine -- work and live a normal life. This is both the United States, and France, and Lithuania, and a lot of European developed countries. Ukraine has also introduced such rules, vaccination is compulsory for teachers, for government officials, for those who visit cinemas, sports halls, restaurants, of course, if there is a red zone. But somehow in the Supreme Council, we have some cyborgs who simply walk and may not get sick or die. That's not true. None of us are immune from COVID-19's death. I'm serious, colleagues. And vaccination is the only way to stop today's high mortality in Ukraine. Imagine there's 150 people in the theater, and we have over 400. Why are we so special and not like everyone else? Let us put an end to this shameful practice that someone is equal and someone more equal. I call on everyone to vote in favour of this ruling. Let's make the Supreme Council just as safe a space where it won't be afraid to come to work and, of course, vote in favour. Believe me, people will look at the names that voted for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u103	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it cannot be the success of an anti-vaccination campaign in a country that is in the leading positions of age mortality in the world. So once again we focus on the fact that, unfortunately, there's a failed vaccine campaign in Ukraine, the propaganda of the vaccine, and we know that none of the vaccines in Ukraine have died. Sadly, all who die are not vaccinated. Parliament cannot therefore stand apart from this situation and Parliament cannot be separate from society. Parliament has its own example to show that it is a vaccine. This is like the main rescue of today’s situation. But, you know, people's deputies are governed by laws, and we're behind this bill. The only thing that needs to be worked out is the second reading, because it is, as you know. More loyal, not a bill, but a decree contradicts the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, because the people's deputies exercise the right to visit the authorities without hindrance. So that we don't reach that kind of legal dissonance when the decision by its nature is a sublegal act and its legal force is less than the law itself, we still have to rephrase it to the second reading. The law is strict, but it is the law. We're for vaccination for everyone, including the Ukrainian National Deputies. But the Ukrainian national MP is governed by the law, and he cannot have any restrictions on his movement, including in the workplace, that is, in the Ukrainian Parliament. Let's correct this situation, work on this decision for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u105	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of the Political Party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u106	Please pass the word to Jani Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u107	Jan Vadimovna Zinkevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u108	Thank you. I'll start with the main one. We support this decision and we will vote in favour. Now our country is in a terrible situation: the absence of vacancies in the hospital, the slow pace of vaccination, more than 700 dead from COVID in the daytime, an absolutely uncontrollable situation, and this is largely due to the incompetent representatives of the leadership of the state. I insist that quarantine measures are necessary and appropriate throughout the country. And now we have the opportunity to give our vaccinated citizens the opportunity to reduce their red zone limits. You know, it's going to be very interesting to see how every MP and every faction today votes, because that's the kind of decision that's going to set an example for our citizens, and to confirm that there's an unacceptable situation where the Supreme Council is going to be an exception to the rules. And it's nice to know that it's about 70 percent of our voters who support vaccination. And I thank everyone who cares about their health and other people. But there are also a number of issues and problems that need to be addressed and that need to be addressed in the near future. One of the problems that, of course, will need to be further worked out before the second reading is that I agree with the opinions of many colleagues about restricting the rights of deputies to access one or more premises, which is unacceptable in many situations. And we have to write these standards very wisely. Another problem is that there is still no standardized help for patients. Many citizens ask for help, asking for advice. And we hope and expect that on November 8th, it will still be decided and standards will be given. In addition, it is important to note a few.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u109	Thank you. Please, I give the floor to Krulk Ivan Ivanovich and after that. Yeah, I can see that. I'll give Bakunka my word and then we'll vote. Please, Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u110	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this decree. And the logic here is absolutely clear and clear for everyone who sits in this session hall and for Ukrainian citizens. If we, the national MPs, want the citizens of Ukraine to comply with the laws that we are enacting in the Ukrainian Parliament, we ourselves must abide by the laws that we are enacting. So there can be no equal and unequal. If today the condition for people to work, move them, take them into transport is the presence of a test or a vaccine, the same rules should be applied to national MPs. We're no different from people. That's why the People's Deputy Status Act is very good. But every MP who comes here to the Supreme Council should use not only this Act, "On the Status of the People's Deputy", but also understanding the situation that the country is in today, and the situation that is today with COVID. That is why we must vote in favour of this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u111	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Next, I invite you to the words of Bakuña Pavel Andryovich. And then there's Olena Kostvena. And then we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u112	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable national MPs, colleagues, national electorates! I'm asking you right now for justice. You should be an example to the citizens, not an exception. Now I'm talking about people asking all over the country, "Why do teachers, why do military teachers, why do vendors have to go and vaccinate to go to work and make money, and people's deputies have an exception?" So let's cancel this privilege for the people's deputies, compare them with all the employees in this country, so that to go to work and make money, you have to vaccinate or pass the PLR tests. Just like the whole country does.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u113	And the closing word. I invite Olenna Kostovna Kondratuk, deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would just like to say that these are new rules for each and every one of us. I'd like to thank, first of all, all the authors of this decision from different factions and groups, the profile committee, and tell you that aside from the vaccination certificate, we may have a negative PLR test, and an antigen test, and a recovery certificate for three months after the disease. The most loyal environment you have to have, and you have to get used to these rules by November 15th. Because we're going to have open vaccination centers that are at the National Hotel and at the Kiev Hotel. I very much ask you, I warn you, no fairies' certificates and fairies' evidence, because we're going to have the apparatus working and don't embarrass this institution of power like the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please follow all the rules, the new rules that we will all now support. I very much hope that this will be a constitutional majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u115	Thank you, Olena Kostvena. I also very much hope that by our decision we will be able to confirm that life and health are of higher social value and that caring for one another is a beacon of the work of this Parliament. So, my dear colleagues, I'm proposing to the committee that we take into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Ordinance on additional measures to combat the spread of coronary disease (COVID-19) (project registration number 6154). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:43:47]] For 279 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next question that we have is also extremely important, this is the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to establish responsibility for counterfeiting of documents relating to preventive vaccinations (project registration number 6084). Is there a need to discuss this? Then let us first vote on the issue by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:44:34]] For 238. Decision taken. I invite you to speak to the first Deputy Minister of Health of Komaridu Alejandro Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u116	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! With regard to the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the establishment of responsibility for counterfeiting of documents relating to preventive vaccinations. Currently, there have been more frequent cases in Ukraine of counterfeit documents related to vaccination against COVID-19. The absence of responsibility for such misconduct creates preconditions for the further development of the counterfeiting of documents relating to vaccination against COVID-19, which in turn poses a direct threat to the life and health of Ukrainian citizens. Since COVID-19 is a particularly dangerous infectious disease, it is characterized by severe and persistent health disorders, high mortality rates, rapid population growth, a lack of adequate response measures to prevent COVID-19 will not be able to improve the epidemic situation in Ukraine. In the light of what has been said, it has been necessary to establish criminal responsibility for falsifying documents relating to preventive vaccination against particularly dangerous infectious diseases. Similar laws are adopted or already in force in most European countries to strengthen or establish responsibility for vaccination. In addition, according to the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 30 July 2021, "On the state of the national health system and urgent measures to provide Ukrainian citizens with medical assistance", introduced by the Presidential Decree of 18 August 2021 (room 369/2021), the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine needs to address the issue of increasing liability for counterfeiting documents, including electronic vaccinations of COVID-19. Given that there is no criminal responsibility in the current Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, there is no request for honourable national deputies to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u117	Thank you. I invite the co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on the Protection of the Law, Sergio Konstantinovich Ionushas.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, recently, criminal activity has become a mass activity such as falsification of medical documentation relating to the results of PLR tests and internal, international vaccine COVID certificates. You know that our certificates are recognised in EU countries. Unfortunately, by producing false documentation, our State's authority in the international arena has been undermined, questioning the legitimacy of the Ukrainian COVID certificates, in view of which the Committee on Law Protection at its extraordinary session has considered the draft Law, registration number 6084, amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to establish responsibility for the forgery of documents relating to the conduct of preventive vaccinations submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. To this end, it is proposed that the Criminal Code of Ukraine be supplemented by a new article 321. 3 — falsification of documents relating to preventive vaccinations that involve a fine of up to 34,000 bracelets or up to 2 years of restrictions of will. Medical personnel who submit false information to the database will receive a fine of up to 68,000 dollars or up to two years of restrictions on their will and their right to hold positions. For those who produce and sell counterfeits, a fine of up to 170,000 dollars or three years of free will. This rule is special in relation to the general rules provided for in article 358 of the Criminal Code and 366. Following a comprehensive discussion of the bill, the committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council the results of the first reading of the bill as a basis for adoption. And I want to point out in person that citizens who produce and sell counterfeit COVID certificates try not only to deceive the health system, but by their actions they are putting everyone around them at risk. Dear colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u119	Thank you, Sergey Costinovich. Dear colleagues, I understand there is a need to discuss this bill. Please sign up: two in, two in. Trelyakova Galina Mikolayevna, "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u120	Please pass the word to Galina Mikhailuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u121	Mikhailuk Galina Olegovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u122	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that the situation in our country of mass falsification of COVID certificates is unacceptable. Yesterday, at an extraordinary meeting, our committee supported a bill tabled by the government. At a time when the whole world is struggling with a pandemic that has left 5 million people dead, our political faction, "The Servant of the People," sees the irresistibility of this situation as unacceptable, which directly threatens the lives and health of citizens who, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, are considered to be the highest social value in the country. In view of the dangerous social consequences of document falsification, there is a need to establish criminal responsibility for such acts. The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the National Police and other state authorities support the bill. Dear colleagues, this is a matter of the international image of our country. We have to do everything we can not to be on the list of citizens who are not allowed to cross the state border. In most European countries, similar legislation is already in place to increase responsibility in the field of vaccination. So we need urgent measures to be part of a comprehensive response to the spread of coronary disease and to improve the critical epidemiological situation in our country. In this regard, I ask that you support the bill and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u123	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u124	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, last week the members of the Supreme Council worked mainly in committees and districts. And, of course, when they met with the voters, they talked about topics that are most important, sensitive to the lives of every citizen of our country right now. And, of course, topic number one, which was discussed, is the topic of the fight against the spread of COVID, the global pandemic, the general Ukrainian pandemic, the worsening of the situation in the country with an increase in the number of patients, the lack of oxygen and, of course, the issue of prevention, preventive vaccination, the responsibility for organizing this process. And the situation is related to the production of illegal counterfeit documents that testify to vaccination or vaccination. And, of course, as legislators, we have to do everything we can to resolve this issue. So there was a rather intense discussion at the Committee on Law Enforcement yesterday. Legislators, legislators, on the one hand, and on the other, citizens who are aware of what is going on in the country are looking for a way to resolve this issue in a heated debate. And as an alternative, the bill that is now being proposed. Yes, we are significantly strengthening our responsibility for falsifying the evidence, for illegally entering the register of vaccinations for those who do so, and for those who use it. But that is what needs to be done. The Trust MP group is urging everyone to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u125	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. The word is given to Constanceevich Irina Miroslavni, "The Party for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u126	Please pass the word to Taras Ivanovich Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u127	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, when we as patriots of the country say that Ukraine is above all else, obviously the life of man is above all else. And I'm looking at this bill with my colleagues as part of a proper propaganda campaign that's lost in power today in part of what we need to be vaccinated immediately, the maximum number of people who are citizens of Ukraine. But it's an honest vaccine. And for all the citizens of Ukraine, and especially for those who trade the vaccination letters themselves, you have to read what awaits them. "For the use of a person who is known to have forged documents that confirm the conduct of preventive vaccinations, a fine of 17 to 34,000 dollars. According to medical records, a medical worker is aware of a fine of 34 to 68,000 bracelets with a term of imprisonment of up to 2 years. Manufacture for sale, sale of forged documents that confirm the conduct of vaccinations, fine up to 170,000 dollars and forfeiture for up to 3 years." Obviously, we're short on the Criminal Procedure Code here because we're talking about things like what's known as the indirect, unknowable attempt on the lives of our citizens. There are other manipulations that you don't document by law enforcement. And it will only remain on the conscience of the individual parts that deal with this issue at such an unforgivable time for Ukraine. Our parliamentary group will clearly support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u129	Thank you. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, faction of the political party "Golos". Please, Alexandra Yuriovna Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, you know, I usually urge you not to support the bill that raises fines for the population. But this is the case when I'm going to ask you to support this bill. That fine, which is now 850 dollars for a forged certificate, is insane. I'll tell you, this fine is reflected in one reference. And in fact, you wrote a certificate, you were fined 850 dollars, and you keep flicking them. Now we're going to raise at least 17,000 for use and up to 68,000 if you're writing this as a doctor. It is not enough that a doctor will now have a license from one to three years, and he will be able to put the person in prison. I'm very supportive of our doctors right now, but I'm not supporting those doctors who are currently making money on these deaths. Because the release of sticky evidence is actually a profit for those who then die in hospitals when they can't save them. We really need to take this step right now, because this step has long been taken by all the civilized countries. In Greece – 5,000 euros fine, in France – 45,000 euros fine a doctor and for 3 years he can pay for counterfeit certificates. For 3 years and 45,000 euros. We offer much smaller amounts, but we have to keep this responsibility. Now, in Ukraine, all of the world’s publications are Reuters, The New York Times. If we don't show political will now as Parliament and we don't approve this bill, then soon all the borders for us will close with our certificates and we will all, at best, for 14 days, be quarantined or we won't be able to go to a neighbouring Europe or any other civilized country six months ago. So I'm asking you very much, we now, as a parliament, have to support this bill and allow our law enforcement agencies to impose fines and show the world community that we are ready to fight COVID, and we don't want to continue making money on fairies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we've discussed this. Please, Ariev, one minute, with a motive, and then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats, and after that, Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich will be voting for one minute. Please, Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u132	My friends, we are very much in favour of the vaccination campaign in "European Solidarity". I can even understand personally those who do not want to be vaccinated. Well, everyone has their own arguments, but there are people whose rights are violated, those are the people for whom COVID can be fatal, those who have certain diseases or health problems. For the last 3.5 months, I've been one of them. And I think that I have, and in others like me, the right to be alive because those who fake a certificate are doing more harm than those who openly talk about not being vaccinated. Yes, this bill needs to be finalized because it duplicates another article on document counterfeiting. It's going to be, if you take it that way, just the psychological effect, but you have to vote the way you should.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u133	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich Tsimbaluk, "Fatherland" faction. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u134	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium, the honourable colleagues! In fact, 40 percent of Ukrainian citizens are against vaccination. But this may not be their problem. This is a serious failure of the authorities over the last two years to provide information about what the authorities had to do. On the other hand, if you look at this bill, it's legal nihilism -- one article denies the other, etc. Take a look at the conclusion of the scientific and legal department. But perhaps today’s law should be adopted in the first reading only for the joy that preventive law enforcement agencies can do so in order for fewer people to be punished but not only for their health but also for those around them. The "Paternity" team in the first reading will vote, let's make it better by the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u135	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the establishment of responsibility for counterfeiting of documents relating to preventive vaccinations (project registration number 6084). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[18:00:48]] For 282 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if I put down the cut, let's support this so that we can vote in the next plenary week. Let's do it. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, honourable national MPs have put to the vote the proposal to cut down half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments and to prepare for the second reading of the bill, registration number 6084, this is the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to establish responsibility for the forgery of documents relating to the conduct of preventive vaccinations. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[18:01:43]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next, Bill No. 5873, this is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving health management and health care. Is there a need to discuss this bill? We can vote. Can I put it to a vote? Oh, no? Look, let's put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, with your permission, I propose to the committee to adopt, on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in preparation for the second reading, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the health management and health care system (project number 5873). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:03:09]] For 262 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Here we go, the next bill, 5694. Now, one second, I'll take it. You want to talk, don't you? Okay, okay, okay. Dear colleagues, to discuss it, must first be included in the order of the day. I therefore make the first suggestion to include in the agenda of the daily session the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the functioning of the Single State Register of War Veterans and the introduction of an electronic certificate for veterans (project registration number 5694). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[6:04:12]] For 292 Decision taken. Now I'd like to ask you to support the proposal to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please support and vote. [[18:04:36]] For 254 Decision taken. Once again, we need to discuss it. Then I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Czernjev Jegor Volodymyrovich, as a reporter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u136	Good afternoon, dear fellows, once again. This is Action, this is already a digital passport. We would also like to see the testimony of a wartime participant present here. That's what this bill is all about. It allows you to make an electronic identification of a participant in combat. That's the first one. And secondly, it allows the only register of veterans to interact with other state registers and exchange data. This same register has already been created by the Ministry of Veterans, not at the expense of the state budget, but at the expense of donors. And in order to run it, it is precisely necessary to adopt this bill, which I'm asking you to accept not only as a basis but as a whole. It's very small, but it's very necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u137	Thank you. A co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights, Galina Mikolayovna Trelyakova, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u138	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The bill actually provides for the introduction of an electronic certificate for a veteran or a wartime participant. It's precisely in order for this certificate to work as well as paper, that you need an information exchange between all databases and the database that's being created in the Department of Veterans, with other databases. There is a proposal from the Association of Cities to review between the first and the second readings, how the local authorities, the territorial communities, will finance the verification of this certificate. Thus, after considering the bill at its meeting on October 20, the committee recommends that it be accepted as a basis. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u139	Dear colleagues, there was a need to discuss this bill. Please sign up: two in, two in. Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Bogdanek Andrija Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, this law makes it easier for us to obtain and use a veteran's certificate through its verification and. digitization, I'm sorry. This will simplify our lives for our veterans -- people who, in spite of their family circumstances, have gone on their way of life to protect their country. In order to confirm their status, they will be provided with benefits and compensation. When we support this bill, it'll be enough to show an electronic certificate in a mobile app that is formed free of charge by means of a single national web portal and will operate in territory throughout Ukraine. We also establish an automatic information exchange between the One State Register of War Veterans and the data bank, which includes government authorities and local authorities. So we're going to make it extremely easy to access the benefits and we're going to take the bureaucracy to get these, I'm sorry, certificates. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u141	Thank you. The word is Zinkevich Jani Vadimovni, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u142	Thank you. I am truly pleased because I am a coauthor of this bill. We, along with other veteran deputies in the Supreme Council, managed to unite and get some common ground and put it all together in this bill. I hope that he will be supported by the entire hall, because that is very important. We should simplify the possibility of receiving benefits from veterans because very often it is people who already have a health problem who may not be able to have any barrier - free access to a certain environment, and this will make their lives much easier, including even my own life as a veteran. So I ask everyone to support and I want to point out literally a little detail of what would be desirable when the bill is being implemented, but I want to pay attention to the failures of electronic systems, because, as we know today, there has been a very large malfunction of Action, and I don't want there to be any disruption in the service of veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u143	The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Costenka Romano. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u144	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The digitization, the respectable colleagues, is a really nice and modern trend. And by introducing it, we should not forget the great category of our citizens, such as war veterans and members of the Dignity Revolution. And we really need to support them and make it possible for the Ministry of Veterans first to simplify their ability to use their certificates, and to implement this direction that we're talking about here. That's why the Voice faction will support this bill and urge everyone to support this bill, and our veterans, who are getting more and more responsible every day for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u145	Please, Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna, Party for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u146	I ask you to pass the word to Taras Ivanovich Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u147	With great pleasure, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u148	Dear colleagues, our MP Party for the Future is certainly for making our veterans' lives easier and for reducing bureaucratic obstacles on their difficult path and lives. And that's why, of course, we're here for the introduction of an electronic vet's certificate that will allow us to receive it. It is easier to confirm the proper status of a veteran, to receive benefits and compensation. At the same time, we point out that there are certain risks to the bill, so we can only support it in the first reading. They are primarily related to the uncertainty of the specific scope and the list of personal data particularly sensitive to the category of citizens who are veterans in Ukraine, which can be maintained by an orderly, the only national register of war veterans. We also point out that there is no way to determine the order of access to automated information and help systems. They should be, too. This order needs to be developed. And directly to the processing that can result in the processing of excessive personal data by veterans also of a sensitive nature, such as medical information contained in the electronic health system and so forth. So in the second reading, we're going to vote yes, and now we're going to support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u149	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, who else would like to speak? I see, Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich. Is he nothing to us? I mean, no one was speaking?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u150	Our team has consistently supported the veteran movement in the state, and we believe that this bill will allow not only to improve the bill, but to improve the services that our veterans are now provided under current legislation. What's more, this applies to over a million of our citizens. As a result, it is vital that after such laws, it is already clear that a system of protection and services is being built for veterans. The language goes that our hospitals should finally be given a certain status, and that the Department of Veterans should take care of them to provide psychological, moral, and medical care to the veterans who protect them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u151	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I invite the National Deputies to take their seats. Let's go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws to improve the functioning of the Single State Register of War Veterans and to introduce an electronic certificate for veterans (project No. 5694). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[18:14:27]] For 291 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there's a proposal to shorten the deadline for this decision, because I think seven days can be taken. That is why I, the honourable national MPs, propose, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, to vote on the proposal to cut back on proposals and amendments by half, and to prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 5694), this is a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine to improve the functioning of the Single State Register of War Veterans and to introduce an electronic certificate for veterans. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:15:27]] For 284 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we still have three pieces of legislation left, so please mobilize our forces. Let's go, we have two laws in the second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we can't. We begin Law 4542, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine to bring some legislation into line. Is there an offer, or would anyone insist? Nobody insists, right? Now, one second. Then, dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine to bring some legislative acts into line (project registration number 4542). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[18:16:54]] For 282 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next bill, 5253-1 (with the badge of Prime Minister).). This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Political Parties in Ukraine to improve the legal regulation of financing the activities of political parties. Without discussion, would anyone insist? Will someone vote or not? [[B in m in s a l in]] I see Makarov and who? And Arthur Volodymyrovich, of course. What are your adjustments, Arthur Volodymyrovich? Makarov said he'd bet on confirming one amendment, right? I mean, it's just this amendment that we're voting on. Please, Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u152	I'm betting on confirmation and I'm asking you not to vote for Amendment 43. What's this amendment about? This amendment to common sense. Under this amendment, the political party may be deprived of funding under a declaration signed at least half of the membership of the political party’s parliamentary faction in the Supreme Council. Including this claim, all non-party members of the political party can sign it. Under this rule, a political party may be deprived of funding as a result of an internal conflict in a small fraction. That's ridiculous. I am convinced that such an amendment cannot be supported. The issue of the political party is the political party, and it is for it to decide on the existence of State funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u153	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u154	The honourable colleagues, the state funding receives only the political party which has been elected to the Ukrainian Parliament and this political party in Parliament represents the respective faction of the political party, and the lists of candidates who have been elected by Parliament, and the lists of the respective factions have national MPs who are not members of the party, but are those who are members of the party, so the question whether these people are party or unparty, it makes no sense at all. But we consider that this amendment should be abandoned because the faction of the political party is directly linked to the political party that was elected to Parliament and financed at the expense of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look, the situation is like this, 43 amendments, it's partially accounted for. Oleg Anatoliyovich suggests putting her on the stand, so I'm putting her on the stand, partially counted, as proposed by the committee. So, dear colleagues, I'm making this amendment. Please vote. [[18:20:38]] For-157. The decision is not taken. Ustinova, please, from the procedure. Please, Ustinova.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u156	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to take into account my number 93. I want to explain what this is about. Now we're actually returning this bill to the political parties in the end. I want to remind everyone that we returned the people two months after COVID, and the political parties are not reporting their financial statements for a year and a half. In order to immediately clear the gap in legislation that will allow you to continue ignoring and not reporting to the parties, I ask you to support this amendment, 93. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u157	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u158	Thank you, Your Honor, Mrs. Alexandro. Indeed, one of the main objectives of this bill is to restore reporting by political parties on their expenses. And the committee fully supports the position, and it's also reflected in the Final Positions for this bill. But in order for them to report to the political parties after their first report in the quarantine regime, it is necessary to support amendment 93, which has just been announced by the national deputy Ustinov. Let's vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 93rd Amendment of the National Deputy Ustinov. The committee, in principle, supports this amendment. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[18:22:48]] For 205 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, no one insists on repairs anymore? 24 amendments, please, Zmerenecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u160	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the 24 amendments that may invalidate the essence of this law at all. The point of this amendment is that the parties have to report on the financial obligations that are already due. So the party can take some long-term loans, like some oligarchy money, roughly for 10 years or 20 years. These obligations have not been fulfilled and the party accordingly will not reflect this money in its reports. There's a conclusion from NAZK that there's an expert conclusion that this amendment is very dangerous. It can allow parties to engage in shadow money and not to reflect it at all in their reports. So I ask you to fail this amendment because it spoils the whole purpose of the bill to improve the transparency of party finances.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u161	Committee position, 24 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u162	This amendment was supported by the committee because this amendment is about legal certainty. This is the question that political party accountants reflect reporting according to the legislation that regulates this activity. Unfortunately, existing legislation does not contain a legal definition. That's why 24 is proposed, and that's the legal definition. This will now be decided at the level of the law, not the NAMC. So please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Amendment 24, is counted by the committee. But the National MP, Zmerenecki, is asking for confirmation. Committee position: leave this edit unchecked. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[18:25:19]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. I therefore propose to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine on improving the legal regulation of financing the activities of political parties (registration number 5253-1). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[18:26:04]] For 285 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. And we're left with the extreme. I'm sorry. I've already been corrected. Final bill 2553, which asked us so much to stay. I invite him to say it's a second reading again. Dear colleagues, would anyone insist? No one will. Oh, it will be. Please, Kucherenko Alexei Yuriovich. What an amendment, tell me now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u164	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Amendment number 15. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry to keep you for a while, but I'm doing this not only to get you the information you need, but to get the Ukrainians to understand how the adoption of such laws will increase, unfortunately, payments, although the idea of this law is not bad. And now to number 15. We, together with colleagues of Krakhod and Kamelchuk, have proposed to entrust the State Authority, the Central Executive Authority, the National Food Safety and Consumer Protection Service, to monitor compliance with technical regulations and the quality of natural gas. Because today, you realize that millions of Ukrainians complain that it does not burn, it does not even burn. And I don't understand why the committee colleagues rejected this amendment. I would very much like you to support us so that we can understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u165	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u166	Thank you, Alexy Yuriovich. That's a good idea. We generally support the idea. We believe that the implementation of this idea requires amendments to several legislations in Ukraine. And this was confirmed at a meeting with the Ministry of Energy. That's why we're now gathering a working group that will work out the work version of the proposal you're proposing to put it separately in a separate legislative act and submit it as a separate amendment to Ukraine's legislation. So the idea in general is okay, we support it. We're doing a fuller edition. We'll include you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u167	Thank you. Alexi Yuriovich, do you insist that she be voted on, or perhaps an explanation satisfied you? You don't make it, do you? Thank you. Dear colleagues, with your permission, then I would like to propose to the committee to accept, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. Are you insisting? I apologize then because I asked you. Okay, I saw it. So let's say I'm sorry, we cancel the last one. The 15th amendment of the Kucherenka People's Deputy, he insists on taking it into account. The committee explained its situation. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[18:29:23]] For-99 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, and now we can move on to. Oh, you have five amendments? Please, what's next? Alexi Yuryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u168	If there's someone who doesn't understand these changes, then I'll explain it to your voters in the district, MPs. Now it's number 16. We commissioned, we wanted to introduce and empower the government to implement the State's incentive for the implementation of the accounting systems. We don't just have old accounting devices, we don't have 2 million yet, 2 million consumers without accounting devices. And if we want to count the gas in calories, we need the appropriate accounting equipment, and the state has to support it. If you think you're going to charge these billing devices, you're going to make a big mistake, this tariff is going to be inoperable. I don't understand why my colleagues didn't support such a major piece of legislation on state policy in this direction, and I'd like to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u169	Dear colleagues, amendment number 16, it's taken into account by the committee in part. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account of this amendment. So please identify and vote. [[18:31:02]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next thing I know, 17th, right, Alexy Yuriovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u170	Yeah, that's right. Amendment number 17. Dear colleagues, especially senior MPs, please be very careful. This is simple enough. And we're with colleagues, and we're proposing that, at the legislative level, we propose that a state-owned company that has 100 percent of the state's property in its stock package (I won't hide it, it's primarily NAC Naftogaz) is obliged to sell Ukrainian gas to the Ukrainian population at a price that's formed into a very simple formula -- that's cost plus profitability. This amendment is very principled, and I'm asking you very much to support it, because then we will, and you will be able to tell our voters why the price of gas is rising and what we are doing to do to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u171	Thank you. 17 amendments, it's rejected by the committee. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please identify and vote. [[18:32:29]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Please, Alexi Juryovich, you still have two adjustments? What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u172	Two more revisions. 40.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u173	Please, 40th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u174	Thank you. Well, dear colleagues, obviously to me, for all Ukrainians, that this bill, just like any other, was designed at the direction of NAC Naftogaza. And this is a huge disaster, which, unfortunately, both the previous authorities have done, and you, the distinguished "ministers of the people," continue to serve this state monopoly. What you're talking about is 40 degrees. We suggest that people have an absolute understanding of how cubic meters of gas are converted into calories. Because believe me, you can do it on both cubic meters and gigacalories and joules. And if we don't do that, there's going to be a continuation of this fool and they're going to be doing it in calories, and it's not going to make it any easier for the Ukrainians. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u175	40 amendments, it's partially accounted for. At the same time, the author is fully aware of this. I'm betting on the author's proposal, and I'm asking you to identify yourself and vote. [[6:33:57]] For-54 The decision is not taken. And the final draft, Alexy Yuriovich, which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u176	Thank you. Amendment number 99. Dear Ukrainians, I no longer address the MPs, I address the Ukrainians first. I think the whole country, and as far as most of it is concerned, has come to realize that all the problems in the gas sector, all the troubles in the so-called gas market with these accounts, with these debts, with this abuse, are concentrated on the existence of one hypermonopoly, a fraudic hypermonopoly called the Naftogaz Ukraine. Understand, "ministers of the people," sooner or later, you're going to have to do an audit on this company, you're going to have to tell the Ukrainian people where tens and hundreds of billions of dollars are going. And my colleague Speedhog and I propose that we solve this problem once and for all, entrust the government with the shortest deadline to eliminate Naftogaz NAC as the cause of all the problems in Ukraine's gas field. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-02-m1.u177	I'm betting on the 99th amendment of the Kucherenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[18:35:22]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the introduction into the market of natural gas accounting and accounting for gas in energy units (project registration number 2553). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[18:36:11]] For the 250. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Hello. Dear colleagues, thank you very much for this. 250 for, yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
