ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! Dear fellow Members, please prepare for electronic registration. And I would like to remind you that when you start registering, you need to hold the sensor button, press the "Z" button, and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the end of the registration, that is, before the results on the board appear. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Are you ready to register? [[10:01:59]] There are 168 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, today is the birthday of our colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies Igor Volodymyrovich Vasilivo, "Serve of the People". Let's say hello. [[Applause]] And also Paul Mikolaiovich Suska, also "Serve of the People". Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the day of the radio, television, and communications workers is also celebrated today. It is a professional festival of directors, operators, journalists, producers, and other people who are creatively and inspired to do important work for the State. May we wish them health, strength, and new skills! And thank you for your hard work. Thank you. Now we're moving on to making an oath to the National Deputies. On November 12, 2021, the Central Electoral Commission registered the national deputies of Ukraine elected to the interim election of the national deputy on October 31, 2021, in the one-maned constituency No. 184 of the Kozir Sergey Viácheslavovich, No. 197 of Vojciekhiv Vitaly Aleksandrovitch, and elected to the election of the Ukrainian national deputies on July 21, 2021, in the general multi-national election district of Kostriaychuk Sergija Volodymyrovich, included in the electoral list of the political party "Sergey of the People". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Kozir Sergey Vyacheslavovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I pledge to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties for the good. in the interests of all the people of the country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u3	Heroic glory! Welcome, Sergey Viacheslavovich, you. Please take your seat in the hall. Vojciekhivsky Vitaly Aleksandrovich, a national deputy of Ukraine, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u5	Heroic glory! Welcome, Vitaly Alexanderovich. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u6	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u7	Welcome, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome you all to your office and wish to observe what you have just announced. Please take your seats in the hall. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements to the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups for proposals, announcements and reports. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups. The word is given to the Ukrainian National MP Igorovni, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u9	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u10	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, 838 dead Ukrainians from COVID in the past era. This is the sentence of the government that we are the second and third in the number of deaths in the world, and by the number of vaccines, in all the victorious relations of Mr. Lášk, the so-called minister, we are the last or the last in Europe. We didn't know what would happen to Delta in the fall? We didn't know we needed oxygen? Didn't we know we needed a bed? They all knew that. And we didn't know that winter would come, that we needed coal, that we should have a strategic reserve at our power stations? Today we're looking at a private structure dispute with the state energy system and the company. How did it happen that we're facing a real threat of disconnection and energy collapse, and our power plants are actually working out of wheels? In this background, we see a sharpening on the line of delimitation. There's bullets in the Mariana. Today we see another threat where we came up with another wall between Ukraine and Belarus. Russia has already been built, money has been stolen and everything. And what does the authorities do today? Instead of solving the issues of life, of the security of our citizens, of peace in our country, as we are told by French partners, of German partners, in Washington, we are already told that they are ready to help us implement the Minsk Accords, today the authorities are pursuing journalists, the leader of the opposition of Victor Medvedchuk continue to be held without basis. We're being searched by a friend of ours, Elijah Queen. This is instead of saving the lives of our citizens, taking on real responsibility, rather than promising 1,000 dollars for a cadaver vaccine. Why didn’t we start doing this when we demanded it? In the spring we said: Work with people. There were no vaccines, no vaccines. But we've already warned you: convince, encourage people to vaccine, the vaccines will be, but people won't understand why, because they don't trust the authorities. The United States -- 73 percent -- Israel today -- 90 percent, 65 percent -- Hungary. The authorities trust you there, and you don't. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u11	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Polack Vladislav Mikolajovich, MP of "Trust". Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, distinguished voters, I would like to make the most of the problems that our communities and our constituents have to deal with today. First of all, it's a question of the heating season. And that can't bother people, because it's winter in two weeks. To date, not all budgetary institutions have signed contracts with Naftogaz. According to our information, some 30 percent of the budget institutions have not signed such contracts until now. So that's what the Ministry of Energy is all about, because it's heating up in schools, kindergartens, and hospitals. And for the community, it's question number one. There is still a misunderstanding of the electricity tariff, another. Because since January 1, 2021, the government has cancelled the electricity supply by setting a single tariff of 1.68 per kilowatt-hour, in fact the cost of electricity has increased by almost 50 percent. Repeatedly asked this question to the Minister of Energy, the answers were zero. This situation certainly needs to be settled and reinstated because people have just switched to electricity to save money. Another huge problem today is the problem with electricity in our hospitals, which are overcrowded with heavy and heavy diseases on COVID. By the end of October, Dergenergonexamination had announced that there had been a technical check of emergency power sources in our hospitals. The results of this test are catastrophic: in most hospitals, there are no alternative sources of power, or they are out of work. A year ago, we had a tragedy, a terrible tragedy in October in Lviv, when two patients under HlV died because of a power failure. Therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers must complete a full examination of all medical facilities and provide adequate funds to our communities for the acquisition or restoration of alternative power sources. And I would very much like this check to end with the logical actions of the government, that is, with additional funds, not with administrative sanctions against the medical managers. And the last. The pay system for all health - care professionals, including primary health care workers, who receive vaccinations, outpatients, and direct contact with patients with COVID, should be urgently regulated. Today, most of them receive no extras, and this is just unfair. So we call on the government to resolve all the issues that I have just heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u13	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u14	Please give the word to Irina Heratchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u15	Dear Ukrainians! Green's bleaching machine published a so-called report, in which even this laundry woman was forced to admit that the "vagner's" operation was, in fact, not established, and who betrayed the Ukrainian special forces. Because we haven't been able to question Zelensky and the head of his office. I want to point out that Zelensky and his entire office have been lying to Ukrainians for over a year about the fact that there were no Wagnerians, and that's exactly what treason is. But the security forces today, the D.B.I., the B.B.I., there's no time to deal with the treason of the state, they're busy with the nightmare of the opposition. In fact, the authorities are also lying to Ukrainians today about the seemingly peaceful situation on the borders, not noticing the extremely serious signals of Ukrainian strategic partners who are talking about an abnormal accumulation of Russian weapons, technology and the Russian army on our borders. We see inadequacies in power that didn't even acknowledge it. Similarly, the actions of the Ukrainian authorities and their complete lies in the context of the coronavirus ’ opposition are inadequate. Zelenski lied to Ukrainian doctors about paying them 20,000 dollars of wages and 12,000 dollars, as a minimum, for medical personnel since 2020. And today, when ratings go down, the Bank instead of being responsible for the treason of the state, to be responsible for the lies of a permanent army, instead of taking care of doctors to keep them in hospitals and pay off all debts, claims to be a populistic absolute "wavo thousand." Obviously, we support any campaign aimed at widespread vaccination. But the question is, Who today will be responsible for the 75,000 deaths of Ukrainians? Apparently, it is the greatest leader of the modern world and the head of the coordination council to fight the Green Horon virus, who has not gathered this board of its coordinating council. Similarly, there is today a tremendous tension and a critical situation in the energy field. There are fewer than 400,000 tons of coal left in Ukrainian warehouses. And in order to save Ukraine from the cold winter, private companies are now buying coal. And interestingly, as the Green Masks met, today it will meet coals purchased by oligarches hated by Zelenski. That is why we really demand of the Supreme Council. First. To create a real TSC by "vagners," state traitors have to be held accountable for treason. The other one. Putting in order a daily bill on the recognition of Wagnerians by a terrorist organization is number 3735. Third. Today, doctors are expected to receive payments, so Bill 6006 of our faction needs to be put in order immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u16	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! I want to wish health to all the deputies in this room, and to your families, your loved ones, your friends. But I want to say that with the protection of people's lives, the country was very unhappy. Our team visited a very large number of hospitals, several parts of the country, during the non - sessional week. I want to tell you, honourable deputies of the majority, have you ever seen a man die of COVID without oxygen? Have you ever seen this man's relatives fight and there's nothing they can do to help him? Have you ever felt that there are drugs that save you from COVID, but these drugs are neither in the hospital nor in the family to buy them? Oh, my God, you'll never see kids under H.I.S. But I want to ask you, why isn't that a priority today -- protecting people, their lives, their health? When we passed the hospital, we saw several things that were not compatible with morals, honor, and conscience at all. First. More than 50 percent of hospitals in Ukraine lack oxygen. Do you have any idea what that is? And why are there no extraordinary measures that save people today? You know that today no hospital in the country, including COVID-based hospitals, has the drug prescribed by the MOH protocol, a remdesivir that needs to be pierced by severely ill people for the first three days. You know there's no drug and people are dying today not because COVID is just a terrible disease, it's a terrible disease, but because there's no oxygen, there's no remdesiver. And you know that in virtually every hospital, doctors, medical personnel who work with cadavers, do not pay 300 percent to pay, and today they receive five times less than their colleagues in Poland. What are you doing? In addition, all the doctors in charge said that only a third of the cost of health care was included in this year’s budget, and the next one did not include anchor costs or normal health expenses. We require an immediate review of the budget for this year and for the following year. And today we see in Parliament again 2.5 billion cheating on road construction. Are you out of your mind? Who will be responsible for this — the lives of the people? The second thing that's happening is there's no money in the budget to pay people their medical wages. We will violate criminal matters by demanding what is being done in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u18	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bobrovsky Solomia, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u19	Samantha Bobrowski, Justice Union. Dear colleagues, I'm from the city of Plains. In the Plain region there is a village called Township, which is actually on the border with the Republic of Belarus. And I want to tell you that last week, aside from the payments that will come this month for the start of the heating season, and besides the hospital situation, they're discussing one more thing: the state and the situation on the border. What will we do if the swamps and forests do not protect our border? And that's what I hear very often from my colleagues, because don't worry, because landscape barriers won't allow migrants who are actually a living shield today, and Belarus and Moscow are engaged in state terrorism, they can go through here, or they can become a tool in this hybrid war with the European Union, and then it's possible with us. All attention is now confined not only to the northern border, but also to what is happening on the border from the eastern border with the concentration of troops with the state of Ukraine. But I have another question. Besides what Belarus is asking the Kremlin to put on the western border of the Icelanders who are already standing, by the way, in Kaliningrad and Crimea, the question is, what are we doing? You know, a year and a half ago, Parliament expressed its clear position that we don't recognize the president, we're talking to the government. President Belarus, who was elected to a virtually illegal election, we asked our government to develop an import scheme. Because Ukraine and Belarus are actually for one. Belarus is Ukraine’s seventh trading partner. Question: What did our government do, quietly silently, with its eyes in the sand? I realize that on Friday there will be a minister of the interior, telling about 7 billion and finally building a border with the Republic of Belarus. Although it's been obvious since I was 14. Once again, I want to emphasize to those who are far from the fields, the regions, that swamps and forests are actually the best way to cross the virtually non-existent border. So I have a request to come, to report to Parliament not only how we're going to build the border, but it was going to be built yesterday, starting with the beginning of engineering, it's not so difficult to make a 7-point boundary distinction like the huge Wall project that was broken down, on the border with the Kharkiv region. But explain how. will continue to replace the number 92 purchase of bitumen or gasoline. I have a request on Friday that I not only invite the Minister of the Interior but also the Minister of Economy to report on these issues: how will import and trade with the Republic of Belarus be discontinued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u20	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u21	Dear Ruslan Anatolyovich, dear colleagues! It’s hard to admit your mistakes sometimes, especially when you talk about them and they’re not counted and concluded, and then they think about how they did it. Now today I want to repeat to the people's servants and remind them again. Over the last two years, we've been telling you from this rostrum what to do, what to do, which direction to go. Especially a year ago, I spoke and repeated, yesterday on the Conciliation Council, today, what was needed when the lowest price on European gas hoods was to go out to market, to buy gas at the lowest price that was historically at that time in Europe -- 70-80 euros. No one was listening. There were billions of dollars in Naftogazu accounts, no one went to market, today we're buying gas at 10-15 times the price. I was talking about the situation in Energoatom -- no one heard, no one wanted to help. Today we have a crisis in the electricity market, no coal today, and we are reaping again. I repeat yesterday and the last couple of weeks that there are other threats that need to be addressed urgently. It's a very critical situation on the Railroad. Over the past few years, there have been virtually no major repairs to the railway industry, virtually no upgrades to the power grids, and electricity is powerful. Almost 70 percent of traction stations, transformers, switches, relays, everything has a life expectancy of 40-50 years. In fact, it's already on the verge that an emergency is not going to work. The same is contact wire, the same is cable-carrying, the same is auxiliary equipment for repairs. The wheelhouse is demolished by 70 percent and so forth. I'm saying not to frighten the country, but to allow the government today to anticipate the budget, not to delete the funds through dividends from Ukrzliznice, to leave them the profits they've earned in the last year and the following year, what's planned, and to allow them to get out of this crisis situation in two or three years. Otherwise, I repeat today that you hear, after a year-and-a-half, you will stop the railways in Ukraine and urgently resolve this issue. But nine women do not give birth in one month. In order to solve this issue, it takes real terms, really a year or two, for Ukrainian manufacturers to produce equipment, put it in place, and the railway was able to do it all. That's two years minimum. The same energy saving situation. I'm speaking for a year, second year, no one hears. We have an energy crisis today. If the funds were budgeted in the past budget, as I said, 3.5 billion dollars in energy saving programs, there would be a major transformation in each region today. Municipal enterprises, heat companies, state institutions at least 30-40 percent would cut all their costs for heat supply, schools, gardens and so on. So imagine this cost right now in the next budget is 5 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u22	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Muchenec Oleni Volodymyrni, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u23	Please give the word to the newly elected head of the political party "Serve of the People" Oleni Schuljak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u24	Please, Olena Schuljak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national MPs! I would like to reiterate today's greetings to our colleagues Sergey Kostrayczuk, Vitaly Wojciekhivski and Sergey Kozir, who today have sworn in and become full members of our great political team, in order to bring together the changes and the reforms that our "Serve of the People" Party is fighting for. The interim elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which took place on October 31, 2021, in 184 and 197 districts, gave evidence of real trust and political support. Our dignitaries from our political party, "The Servant of the Nation," won them with more than convincing results. Sergey Kozir won 64 percent of the voters in Hersonian, and his closest opponent in political power, who repeatedly says that it seems that ratings have collapsed, has gained five times less. Vitaly Wojciekhowski in Cherkaszczy received over 46 percent of the voter votes, twice as many as the candidate who had long counted himself as the head of the district. Such results, without exaggeration, are the best confirmation that our team is confidently moving towards political leadership in Ukraine, despite criticism and shouting and manipulation, and the distortion of our opponents, who for two years have been unable to accept that they no longer belong to them. As we can see, there is a huge gap between the statements and the state's real state of affairs, and people still trust us, support us, vote for us, which is the best estimate of our actions. For example, this week we continue to work very productively, and, if necessary, we will call back-session sessions to speed up the approval of ambitious legislative initiatives within the walls of the Supreme Council. In particular, this week, colleagues, we are going to consider without exaggeration a revolutionary bill on administrative procedure that will radically change the relationship of citizens with officials, and administrative services will become even more convenient, even more accessible to the people of Ukraine. We continue to work to ensure that the State becomes a service, not a punitive state. Also this week, we will consider 6293, which will speed up the provision of oxygen stations, and 6297, which will allocate 3 billion dollars for quarantine support from the state budget. And what I'm saying is, despite the fact that today, even though medical people are trying to fix the disease situation at COVID-19, the hospital situation is still very difficult. So despite all of this, I urge you all to inject yourself, to be healthy. And remember what it is from.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. But before I go into question, I have two applications for two breaks with a replacement for a performance. I invite Ukrainian national deputy Anna Speedhod, three minutes to speak. And after that, National Deputy Sowsun, three minutes for the performance. And we're going to go over the issues. Please, Anna Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, today is exactly 40 days before Anton Polyakov's heart stopped beating. I ask everyone to honor him with a minute of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. I registered Regulation 6300 concerning the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry. Unfortunately, they were submitted by all factions and groups of candidates except "Serve of the People." I very much ask the Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Stefanchuk, to request the head of the regulatory committee to meet immediately, to hold a committee, to reach a conclusion, so that the ruling can be voted on in the Chamber. As for you, Your Honor, I sincerely ask you to support this determination so that we may be able to deal with you in the murder of Anton Polakov. I know I'm being challenged by a conflict of interest right now. I don't know what my conflict of interest might be, because I don't have any rights under either the Civil Code or the Family Code. So I don't see any conflict of interest there. And I'm asking you to back up the TSC with a suggestion of my headship in it. I also want to say that the temporary commissions of inquiry are being set up so that we can understand the situation in a comprehensive and meaningful manner. And I can call you 17 TSKs that were created in connection with the killings of national MPs or public figures. And I ask you not to say that the TSC cannot exercise parliamentary control and cannot investigate criminal conduct materials. That's not true. We have a clear definition of legislation and there is a clear practice of the work of the Supreme Council when the TSC is involved in criminal conduct. You know, I realize it's the same for me, but I can honestly ask you, each of you, to remember Anton and to be able to figure it out and get the truth out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u28	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sowsun Inni Romanovni, the Voice faction. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u29	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Honorable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues, died 838 people yesterday from SOVID in Ukraine. We might think the epidemic is going down, but unfortunately, these numbers indicate that the epidemic is going to be with us for a very long time. And for the epidemic, it takes clear steps of authority to counteract it. Sadly, the authorities react too late. We all remember how we voted here in the House of Parliament in the motions of the Voice bill on the allocation of oxygen money. Unfortunately, it's too late, but we've covered this up right now. But in fact, no oxygen stations will solve the problem with SOVID if we don't have the right level of vaccination. Unfortunately, the vaccination rate remains the lowest in Europe today. Indecisively few Ukrainians received the first, not to mention the second, vaccine dose. There are reasons for this: Unfortunately, the authorities have failed the vaccination information campaign. Only October 6th was allocated as much as 25 million dollars to inform citizens about the vaccination, and that day we had 350 people killed by COVID-19. The authorities are now proposing another fantastic step: Each person who is vaccinated will be given a thousand dollars each. You know, citizens, I know that, unfortunately, 30 percent of children don't know math. I don't understand why the percentage of people who don't know math is so high in power. How many people can get thousands of dollars if you just allocate 3 billion? That's 3 million people. We already have 9 million vaccines. Please tell me, how much money does the authorities now plan to throw away for the purpose of motivating people to be vaccinated? It's unrealistic mathematically, it's unrealistic in terms of the budget. Instead, there's another proposal in Voice. I invite all colleagues in the room to join in signing the bill that I have initiated, which is called upon to encourage our family doctors to run an information campaign. Let's set up a follow-up for family doctors to inform their citizens, and if they reach a certain vaccination rate, these doctors will be paid. It's the right civilized step, it's the support of our doctors during the epidemic. It's enlightenment, not incentives to get 1,000 dollars, 500 to pay for a fake certificate, and another 500 to keep. Let us think strategically, support doctors, and support vaccination through information rather than motivation to buy certificates and not solve the problem. I very much hope that this initiative will find support in this House of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making is given to you today. Let us go to their consideration. The first proposed for consideration is the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt in the second reading and in the whole of the draft Law on the Part Guarantee Fund for Agriculture (registration No. 3205-2) (from 25.05). 2020), and these are 3205-2-P, 3205-2-P1, 3205-2-P2. I inform you that in accordance with article 48 of Part 9 of the Rules, this issue is dealt with by a reduced procedure and without a vote on its inclusion in the agenda. So I would like to invite Ukrainian National Deputy Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko to present order 3205-2-P, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u31	Law 3205-2, Presidential. Dear friends, I think I'm just going to say very briefly about this law that he's predicting. And as a result, I think that everyone who has a conscience in this room will vote in favour of cancelling it. Indeed, we insist on revoking this law. What's this law about? This is a law that creates a so-called loan guarantee fund, if you're going to bet land for crops. So the agrarians put the land in a bank. This fund, which consists of state money and foreign companies, foreign banks, guarantees, and if an agrarian does not repay credit, the land passes through the agricultural fund. I could say it's just a hidden model of selling agricultural land to foreigners. I remember being told by everyone who was in power that the land would not be sold to foreigners. So this bill is creating this mechanism. And I can say that there will be foreigners to manage this fund, there will be foreigners to benefit from this fund, and there will be aliens to the land. In fact, it's a law that takes land to the peasants. And to make sure that the peasant doesn't return the loan by setting up the land, there's no problem in our banking system, they're going to do it technologically. And that's why it's not the support of farming, it's not the support of agrarian enterprises, it's the real taking of land into peasants. So we suggest that this law be repealed. If Parliament does not repeal this law, we will appeal to the Constitutional Court because it contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine. Much contradicts the Constitution, and sooner or later all of this will be overturned.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u32	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, author of Decree 3205-2-P1.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u33	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a decision on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Law on the Fund for Partial Guarantee of Agricultural Loans on 4 November. Of course, I would like to talk less about those violations of the Rules during the passage of this legal act. But again, I would like to draw attention to the philosophy itself that is now saluting in this session room and being supported by the majority. Dear colleagues, the procedure for passing a bill on the sale of agricultural land was directly suppressed in contravention of the Constitution of Ukraine. Above all, it has been directly suppressed against the position of the owner of the Ukrainian people, because according to the Constitution, the Ukrainian people own their own land. I want to say that the Fatherland faction has registered the submission and is a subject who will be elected with the Ukrainians at the Constitutional Court meeting, in order for this court to annul the decision that granted the right to sell agricultural land and, unfortunately, not the Ukrainians. Julia Timoshenko, head of the Fatherland faction, has just talked about the fact that this bill also refers to the Finnish authorities who will lend loans to own the land. Dear colleagues, who do we own these Finnustanas? And the owners of these finustas, of course, are not Ukrainians. So the "Fatherland" faction goes to the Constitutional Court to uphold and choose justice with the Ukrainian people. I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u34	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kabachenko Volodymyr Viktorovich, author of Decree 3205-2-P2. None. Okay, I get it. The word is given to the coreporter, the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliovich Calchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u35	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Regulatory Committee at its meeting discussed three draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing Parliament's decision of 4 November of this year to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Law on the partial guarantee of loans in agriculture (registration number of draft law 3205-2). The draft decrees were made by the people’s deputies Timoshenko and Cimbaluk, Evtushka, and Kabachenko. The draft regulations are proposed to repeal the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, since, according to the drafters, the law was adopted, in their view, in violation of the Rules and the Constitution, rather than in particular in violation of the Rules, the authors do not provide any indication. So in summary, the Committee adopted conclusions on the draft decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registrations 3205-2-P, 3205-2-P1 and 3205-2-P1) and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be determined by voting on the adoption or rejection of these draft regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u36	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss these decisions? It is, isn't it? Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Jakimenko Paul Vitaliovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u37	I ask you to pass the word to Blackmore.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u38	Please, Artem Blackmaorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u39	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, you know, when last plenary session we supported this bill and 262 of our colleagues voted in favour, I think that all the manipulative things that have now been said out of the rostrum are nonsense, because the financial institution of the Loan Guarantee Fund does not take any mortgages but only makes insurance for banks. So the manipulative point is that this does not apply to small farms is also pure nonsense. Since it is clear to blacks in white that the Loan Guarantee Fund is created as an insurance financial mechanism for farmers only up to 500 hectares [500 ha]. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u40	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Ion's Maria Mikolayovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u42	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! When we voted on a partial loan guarantee bill in agriculture, a very large piece of work was actually done between the first and the second readings to finalize the bill, excluding very counter-versive standards that helped adopt a balanced bill that would not only help small farmers, but also encourage banks to work with small and medium-sized farmers. And I would like to remind you that it was during the second reading that the European Solidarity and factions of the opposition removed the rule that allowed, more precisely, the Ukrainians to rule over this state institution. Therefore, the administration of the institution will be Ukrainians, the control package belongs to the State of Ukraine. In the oversight council, the majority will be Ukrainians. Therefore, I propose to abstain today from voting in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u44	The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine Slavicki Antonini Kerimovni, factions of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life"
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u45	Please pass the word to Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u46	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! Our faction, you know, it's not against the concept of support and financial compensation to agrarians for some of the projects they're running in different projects, for example irrigation, for the introduction of modern technology and so on. But we definitely don't accept, and what the commentators have said, the question of when the land will stand there and then take possession of its foreign banks and so on. I would like to say that you haven't solved a number of important problems that today are in the agricultural field, and in fact you promised to do so when you were running a land round, a market round of agricultural land. You failed agriculture by 11.5 percent last year, which has partial recovery only plus 1.9 in 9 months this year. So from this point of view, even in two years, you even asked for 10 percent, almost 10 percent, let alone strengthen it. If you want to increase the creditworthiness of agrarians and other business subjects, you must first keep a stable account. What does the National Bank do? The National Bank is lowering it. If it was 6 percent more recently, it's 8.5. And for no one is the secret that the increase in the rate leads to an increase in the value of credits within the country. This is what the National Bank does, for example, to stimulate and support the real economy. So from this point of view, I insist that if you want to approach the issues of solving and supporting the agro-industry complex, you have to engage in complex and agricultural engineering and the development of animal production and manufacturing, and other moments. Because so far all of your reforms have led to only 5.5 percent of our exports being ready-made food and food. And in GDP, less than 3 percent is agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u48	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! Kirilenko, Fatherland. Why do we oppose the adoption of such bills? Friends, once again, there's a budget structure, once again a huge machine of managers, a supervisory board, and huge wages -- NAC Naftogaz, just a kind of side. We're not saying that this is going to be a corruption structure, although there are suspicions. But there are much simpler mechanisms that allow for an economical approach to the budget. I want you to remember when the first phase of radical reform started after the December 3, 1999, decree, when you came to work in early 2000, private structures, private forms of farming, and there was really a question about how to support market mechanisms. And then a simple mechanism was found that didn't dissipate the budget, and it was called "pending commercial banks' loans." The budget has set aside a total of 150 million dollars, which has allowed the multiplicative effect of involving 2.5 billion dollars of commercial banks' money. And you know, the non-fertilized year 2000, but the return on loans by peasants was 92 percent. It was a fantastic sum, it was a fantastic mechanism. How Can I Protect the Risks of Farming? The state took another step next year -- the cost of insurance contributions, and that worked too. Guys, you don't have to invent where you can't invent, you don't have to invent a bicycle when it's been invented for a long time. Borrowing loans - once and for all, partially insurance premiums - two. We don't need appliances, we don't need funds, we don't need huge salaries for budget money, either. That's what we call it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u50	Thank you. We've concluded our discussions, dear colleagues. Please prepare for the vote and the decision. I would like to remind you that we are now voting in favour of the three decisions proposed to revoke the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the second reading and the whole draft Act on the partial guarantee of loans in agriculture. These are three block decisions, so I'm going to turn them in. I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 3205-2-P) on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Law on the partial guarantee of agricultural loans (Registration No. 3205-2) (from 25.05). In 2020. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[10:52:49]] For-52 The decision is not taken. I will bet the following Order (No. 3205-2-P1) on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Law on the partial guarantee of loans in agriculture (Registration No. 3205-2) (from 25.05). In 2020. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[10:53:26]] For-54 The decision is not taken. And the final in this list of Decrees (3205-2-P2) is a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of November 04, 2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Law on the Fund for Partial Guarantee of Loans in Agriculture (registration No. 3205-2) (from 25.05). In 2020. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:54:05]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Decisions are rejected, fellow believers. Dear colleagues, a small announcement. According to these statements and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of the National Deputies of Ukraine, Kosir Sergey Volodymyrovich, Kozir Sergey Viyacheslavovich, Vojciekhów Vitaly Alexanderovich, as part of the parliamentary faction, the political party "Sergey of the People" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Yeah, let's move on. The next question we have is 6297, a draft Order to make changes to the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, 5893-12. Thank you very much for that. I looked at one of them, and it's true. Order 5893-12. Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. We can see what you're up to. Thank you so much for that. This is a draft of the Order for Amendments to the Order of the Day of the Sixth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. Is there a need to discuss? The discussion then follows a simplified procedure in accordance with the Rules. There's no need to vote. So please sign in: two for, two for, please. The word is given to the national deputy of Kunicki Alexander Olegovich, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u51	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u52	Thank you, Alexander Olegovich. Next is Klimenko Yulia Leonidivni, a faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u53	Colleagues, we've looked at the agenda that we're being offered, and the changes to it, and we want to tell you that with this kind of day-to-day approach and this approach, we're not going to go anywhere near economic security or national security or epidemiological security. So we very much ask that you respond responsibly to the agenda and include those bills that are really necessary. First of all, it's necessary for communities to survive this heating season, as well as COVID, for economic security, in order to increase our spending on maintaining the border, including setting up a border from Belarus, and a lot of other things. We've been drafting a bill that increases the community and leaves 65 percent of the PDF in the community. Please tell me. And that's what the President promised. Please tell me why for 12 months, almost a year, this bill is not on the agenda. Why do we not make sure that the communities are able to pass through this difficult season? Why do we not want to bring about a tax administration system for real estate taxes, taxes for the tourist congregation and much more that are the incomes of communities that allow us to go through the really difficult season that awaits us? Because most of the costs lie on the community, starting with the treatment of patients with COVID and ending with the tariffs and maintenance of social institutions. So we ask you very much to put in order the daily bills not only of the people's servants, largely, but also of the opposition that allows the communities to increase their income. You're welcome. And we will not vote in favour of the agenda until our bills are included in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u54	The word is given to the National Deputy of Sufrich Nestor Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u55	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please give the floor to the distinguished national deputy Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u56	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u57	Thank you, Reverend Nestor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this draft decision is unacceptable at least because it: (a) does not take into account the challenges facing the country today. Where are the questions regarding the settlement of the situation in Donbas? Where are the issues related to overcoming the energy crisis, the tariff crisis that is today? We don't see any questions, in this list of 38 bills that are added to the agenda, there are also no bills that relate to economic policy, social policy, instead we see jury courts, capital markets, etc. Are these the priorities of state economic policy and power in general today? That's the first thing I want to pay attention to. And the second is what I want to say. You don't follow the principle of proportionality on a regular basis. When you give only two alternative bills out of 38, that's actually five percent of what's going to happen. And it has to be at least twice as much and it doesn't have to be alternative laws. We will not support such a draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u58	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u60	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! "European Solidarity" will not support what will now be put to the vote, I'll explain why. There are all kinds of laws of monotonousness, but there are no laws of opposition, and there are no laws of opposition. For more than a month now, the 6218 bill has been registered and there is no way to view this room, which clearly speaks of helping local communities in a situation of tariff and energy crisis. "Serves" don't see it, there's no crisis for them. For more than two months now, the "servants" have not noticed the European Solidarity Bill 6006, which clearly states that 2.7 billion dollars from the IMF have been donated to doctors, that they should be allocated to the fight against COVID, that they should be given subsidies, that they should be given to support people in a tariff and energy crisis situation. They don't notice. For more than four months, the "ministers" have not noticed Bill 5770, which says that we need to create a real TSC to investigate the collapse of the operation of the "vagants", where it will be the subject of the knowledge of the interim commission of inquiry, and where not only the interpersonal "ministers" will be the representatives of the opposition factions. They don't notice. And yesterday we saw why. Because their job is to create a smoke screen and cover up the real culprits with a flash operation by the Ukrainian Special Forces. And for more than five months, the "ministers" don't notice Bill 3735 on the recognition of the "Vagner" TVC by a criminal organization. That's why I'm going to the Supreme Council. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I would be most grateful if these bills would finally be discussed in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u62	The word is given by Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich. And after that, I can still see, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u63	Sobolje, Fatherland. The Fatherland faction will not vote in favour of changing the order of the day, because there is in fact no question among the 33 issues that are being raised that will quickly show Parliament's response to the challenges facing society and the country. No proposals for overcoming the energy crisis, no proposals for compensation for the state’s debt to miners. No suggestions for coping with a worrisome crisis. Our faction has proposed 53 bills. that's the answer to these questions. Unfortunately, in that list you're proposing, we don't see any pressing issues that concern Ukrainian citizens today. That is why our faction will not vote in favour of this draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u64	Please, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. And then we go to the vote. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u65	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, there has indeed been an energy crisis today, a crisis in the services of the HKG, an economic crisis in the state. Today we are changing the order of the day. Our group immediately requested the committees to implement Bill 6064 on the prohibition of officials from disengageing people for debt under the HKG. Today's terrible tariffs. The head of the "Trust" group, Oleg Kulinic, spoke today from the rostrum about what you would like to explain, the majority of how gas prices are today and how to act on the heads of the OTG today. We also demanded that the bill be put to the vote, and that it be passed on committees that have been on the committees for two years now, 2070, on the free economic zone of Donbas, to invest in Donbas today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We are moving to a vote in favour of the draft Order for Amendments to the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (project registration number 5893-12). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I then put to the vote a draft regulation amending the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 5893-12). Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:05:14]] For 244 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. Then we've got it. Let's move on to another issue: Bill 6297. This is a draft Act amending Appendices Nos. 1 and 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2021 (to assist insured persons for a period of restrictive anti-epidemic measures taken to prevent the spread of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2). Dear colleagues, we just have a vote here. We will have two votes: the first is the vote on the inclusion in the agenda, the second is to define the bill as an urgent one and shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills and to draw conclusions from the committee on it. We don't really consider it today. Therefore, dear colleagues, I am voting on the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act on Amendments to Supplements Nos. 1 and No. 3 to the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2021 (to assist insured persons for a period of restrictive anti-epidemic measures introduced to prevent the spread of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by the Coronavirus SARS-COV-2) (registration number 6297). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:06:58]] For 302 Decision taken. Now for the second vote on this bill. We need to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills and the conclusions of the committee on it. Therefore, I would like to vote on this proposal to define a bill as urgent and to shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills and to draw conclusions from the committee on the draft Law on Amendments to Appendices Nos. 1 and No. 3 to the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 (to assist insured persons for a period of restrictive anti-epidemic measures to prevent the spread of acute respiratory disease caused by SARS-CoV-2) (project No. 6297). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:08:05]] For 302 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. From the procedure? Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. My God, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u67	Thank you, Mr. Head. Look, if by 6297, when we make changes to the 21st year budget, no one has any questions, because that's an important question about overcoming COVID-19. That's 6298, when it's proposed to make changes to the budget and it's suggested that 2.5 billion extra travel dates are proposed, in our view, it's unacceptable when there's no oxygen in hospitals when there's no funding for subsidies and many other things. And it's not populism, it's, unfortunately, reality, it's today in the country. And we think if you now include 6298, we're going to submit an alternative bill and amendments between the first and the second readings to get this money to those who directly need it and need it, not where you give 2.5 billion dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I'll remind you that 6298, he was in the resolution that we voted before, he's already included in the agenda, so we're only going to vote on recognition as urgent and shortening half the terms. Who wants more? Just the procedure, not the motive. Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u69	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. This bill has to be taken off the table at all, because, first of all, the deadlines are not met. I want to remind you that it was introduced on November 9th, even in the short term, it's about November 17th, today November 16th, and that's why we just have to take it down. And second of all, essentially. Completely disgraceful and unnecessary things to the state, such as a national air carrier, and in fact another corrupt dining room is being created. It can't be, it shouldn't be. So I think we need to film this Bill 6298, not consider it at all, not vote for any time now. Do not violate the Rules and do not do stupid things in the form of national air carriers, because all of this does not correspond to reality and is unnecessary for the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u70	Alexiyyovich, let me just react to what you said. The point is that this question is not being considered essentially, it's being considered from procedural nuances and that's why the proposal to shorten the time. It's not a matter of fact. And only after we count or disregard this proposal will they be reduced or uncut accordingly. We don't really look at it, it's already in the agenda. Please, Ironman, then Krulko, one minute out of the procedure and then we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, if, according to the 97th Bill, where 3 billion are allocated to entrepreneurs, there can only be a discussion of the volume, then the 98th Bill should not be adopted. I don't know what the authors of this law were doing, but two and a half billion on air transport, on roads, on infrastructure subsidies is definitely not the priority that the state is facing right now. The Voice faction passed a bill to support entrepreneurs for 10 billion, the author was the head of the Voice Party, Kira Rudik. You said you didn't have to do that. Now it's a good thing they thought we had to support entrepreneurs. Before this bill, as in 97, we're going to make alternatives not to roads, but to people and entrepreneurs, first of all, to send this money. And the last. I ask you to pay attention to the legal component of this law, there are so many mistakes that the first reading can't even accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u72	Once again, dear fellows, I ask you to pay attention, we are not looking at this issue in fact, we are considering the procedural issue of recognition as urgent and the shortening of time. So I would still ask everyone who takes the floor to follow the procedural issues involved in this bill. Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u73	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We have two bills in which exactly the same articles in the income part of the budget, in just one case, 3 billion add the money, otherwise, 2.5. I want to ask, is it that we have an extra 5.5 billion or are we just trying to outsmart someone? So let's first see if the real revenue of the budget is in the Ukrainian budget today, if we understand that the budget gap is more than 200 billion dollars? Are we simply trying to betray what is desired for what is real? And what's more, we'd like it to be a "Paternity" faction to give us an understanding of what kind of subsidy or aid is going to be given to people, is it going to be real, or is there a specific program that everyone gets, or is it not going to be a selective approach? So unfortunately, we don't think that these bills are ready to be considered, at least from that point of view, that completely unfounded and misunderstood budget revenues that are "inflated" and can't even be implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all have spoken on the matter of procedure or have thought that this is a matter of procedure. Please take the seats of the people's deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to vote the proposal to define a bill as urgent and to shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills and to draw conclusions from the committee on the draft Act on Amendments to Appendices Nos. 1 and 3 to the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 (for the implementation of infrastructure projects and for the development of sociocultural objects) (registration number 6298). Once again, we define the law as urgent and shorten the half term. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:14:49]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Show me the factions, please. The following Bill 6293 is a draft of the Act amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement on Prevention and Dissemination of Coronary Disease (COVID-19). With regard to this bill, I remind you that it has just been included in the agenda of the day session, and that is why we will only vote in favour of defining the bill as an urgent and halving of the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills, the conclusion of the committee on it. Let's do one minute of procedure. Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka. After that, Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. Then Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. Then we go to the vote. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" thanks all the national MPs who have given no chance of a corrupt absolute bill to include in the agenda. And we want to ask the chairman not to comment on our speeches. Our faction is very well aware of what regulatory issues are and what it is that the bill is essentially discussed. And that's why our position was to win, fortunately, in this room, that the previous bill is as corrupt, one that doesn't make any sense, is now placed in the agenda and can't be in it. And we draw your attention, Mr. Stefanchuk, that there are several drafts of your brother's bill in the agenda for the week, but there is no bill of European Solidarity, the opposition faction. Enough of this nepotism. Please, we demand that we put in order of the day, not, you know, best men, of the bill, but of the factions, including "European solidarity." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u76	Thank you. Once again, since you mentioned my last name, I have the right to a replica, don't you think, Irina Volodymyrna? So I'll remind you that any bill, you know the procedure for introducing, getting the bill into the agenda, it's done through committees, and then through the Conciliation Council. So I did propose to follow this regulatory procedure and you'll be lucky, let's move on. Dear colleagues. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. After this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, surely you can hear the offer, we will support it. But the only question is: Why is it so late? Did they not know that it would be necessary to buy oxygen concentrates and simplify the procedure accordingly? Haven't we had enough time since September? The opposition, while all the opposition warned, begged, asked to consider these questions not when the disaster had come, but in advance. And there was a time -- one year after we spent the same year. Did no one know that within a year this situation would be repeated in a more complex Delta situation? 11,000 doctors died. In the daytime, my friend buried both his younger brother and his father. This is not to say that Ukrainians today die in such numbers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u78	Thank you. Please continue Sosun Inna Romanovna. After that, John Ivanovich. And then we go to the vote. Please, Inna Romanovna Sosun.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u79	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, of course, it's good that this bill is now. Unfortunately, we are very late now on the issue of buying oxygen stations, and I very much hope that we and these issues that are now standing will be resolved. For all my colleagues in this room, I would like to inform you that, unfortunately, even though we voted in the oxygen station bill 10 days ago, there is still no way for Kabmin to use the funds in order to buy these oxygen stations in a timely manner. This bill has to be supported. But in the same way, we need to follow Parliament's example of how the initiative that we've all supported here in this room is being implemented in order to have oxygen in Ukrainian hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u80	Thank you. The word is given to John Ivanovich Krulk. Then there's Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. And then we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u81	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, and most importantly, Ukrainians! I'm sure "Fatherland" will support this bill, but I have one question to ask the authorities. Maybe in the spring it took less to engage in vocabulary than to adopt such a bill so as not to comply with a situation where Ukraine is today the world champion of daily COVID deaths? In such an anti - rating, we win when people just die hundreds of times every day. And I would like to say that today's oxygen for Ukrainian hospitals is a question number one that needs to be provided, and that's what the state should do. Not like, let's say, when we were in Sarna last week, it's what opposition deputies do when they're providing an oxygen station to the Sarnin hospital, and there's my colleague, deputy Eutuszk, who's been doing this. It must have been a national program and it had to be done a year ago. We all knew that COVID was what it would be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u82	Please, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u83	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, literally on their way to Alexander Sukhov and Sergey the Great, visited all hospitals in need of adequate protection today. And Chief Dr. Edward Krawchenko spoke personally about disposable protective suits — a thousand pieces of clothing, disposable robes, and respirators, gloves, bachils, and so on. I'd like to ask, where did 65 billion dollars go in Parliament to make it happen? A hedge fund? Please tell me, can the dead and the dead be put in coffins on the roads that are built? Who today will be responsible in the state for the death of people who have died without oxygen? When I was speaking out of the rostrum, it was possible to use technical oxygen and big metallurgical metallurgy "Metinvest" and "Azot" to give this oxygen to the hospital, and someone was using it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u84	Thank you. Please, we still have National Deputy Kovalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich from the procedure and then we move on to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u85	Thank you. Alexander Kowalczuk, "Slut of the People" faction, Equinox. Here a fellow speaker had previously addressed authority with a question and a request, in some words, about some form of fornication. And I'm going to give you an answer right now, a distinguished national MP who applied to power. And I will remind you that it was the opposition that now had to be responsible for everything that was happening in the country, when famous leaders of the well - known political forces called uncensored and obscene words the very history of vaccination. With regard to the sarna station that I was also at, your team has no bearing on setting up this station. Because it's budget costs, and about 20 stations in the Equinox are now being set up for budget costs, for voting and taking responsibility for the authority itself. And you're writing on Facebook.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I propose to define a bill as urgent and to shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills and to draw the conclusions of the committee on the draft Law amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement on Prevention and Dissemination of Coronary Disease (COVID-19) (project registration number 6293). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:23:43]] For 322 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next question is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges on the territorial jurisdiction of local courts in Ukraine before the adoption of the law on the change of the system of local courts in Ukraine in connection with the establishment (lying) of areas. This is Bill 5387. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Then, please, let us first vote on the issue in a simplified manner. To do that, I remind you, we need 150 votes. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:24:43]] For 244 Decision taken. I take it from the author and from the committee, yes, from the Committee on Legal Policy, Sergio Alexiyovich Demchenka. Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the appropriate bill is designed to ensure that we have in the courts for today a matter that is not resolved remains in the state that it is. What are we talking about? The courts, namely, the exercise of justice, are bound up with territorial jurisdiction. The respective areas that were formed before we made the changes when we brought them together or eliminated them according to the decentralization reform, we have to bring about the structure of the relevant courts, especially the local courts. If we do not do so, we will have the uncertainty of referring to the courts, to which court we should refer, to which court we should consider an application. Therefore, colleagues, the relevant bill proposes to continue to use the pre-definition of areas by the end of the following year to determine territorial jurisdiction by the courts. Why has this happened to us today that we continue for one year to ask questions from the opposition? Note that the relevant process is very extensive; it should take into account the opinions of all the judicial authorities; it should take into account the opinions of the Ministry of Justice and the judges themselves. It was for this purpose that a working group was formed at the Committee of Legal Policy, which over the course of this year worked out proposals for appropriate unification or new courts. Appropriate proposals will soon be addressed to the President of Ukraine, whose mandate is to resolve the issue. So, colleagues, there's no betrayal, no bill of purely technical nature, continues the term that we used to have with you for another year. And over the course of this year, I'm sure that the relevant question of territorial jurisdiction will be decided on the courts according to the changes that we made with you to implement the decentralization reform. Thank you, colleagues. Please be supportive. And according to the committee's recommendation, please support me in the first and second readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. Sergei Alexiyovich, you can take your place now, there will be no questions. And you didn't speak from the committee? Please, National Deputy Bakunetz Pavel Andriyovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u89	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, it is clear that there is a reform of decentralization in our eyes. More than one and a half thousand territorial communities have already been formed. With you and the government, we have eliminated and reduced the number of areas. And all of this is for the sake of development, for the comfort of the people in our communities. And of course, it's been the first year since the election, and we don't see the result of this decentralization today. It is not easy for newly created communities to cope in these areas. And all government bodies are not yet being brought into a new administrative and territorial system. And clearly, in order not to interfere with the comfort of our citizens, in order to ensure further access to the judicial system, we need to adopt this bill with you today, with which to continue, to postpone the judicial reform system for another year. Because if they go into it now to do so by the end of this year, it can ensure that our citizens have poor access to the courts. We have to move for another year. Let the courts remain in the administration as they were before the reform, prepare well, and, at some point, within a year, enter the new areas. In this way, we will help our citizens to continue to have unhindered access to defend their rights and interests in the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u90	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Pavlish, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u91	Good afternoon. The People's Party of Politics supports this bill. Indeed, as the speaker put it, the bill is purely technical. And the committee's discussion was only about the terms for which the bill's standards should continue. And I want to say that this bill was passed and supported not only by the committee but also by the judicial branch of power. So we need to continue for a year now with regard to the jurisdiction of the local courts. Now, I think next year we're going to move on to the new system of local general courts, and we're already going to do the work that the working group did.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u92	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Knjazevic Ruslan Petrovich, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u93	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I recall very well the triumphant relations that occurred in the session hall during the adoption of a well-known decision on optimization, more specifically the formation and elimination of areas. I then, during the discussion, asked the author of this decision, did he not find it advisable not to rush into the election quickly, but to wait for all changes at the same time to apply not only to the corresponding formal change in administrative structures, but also to the networks of courts, districts, primarily prosecutors, police, notaries, medical, and a whole range of other problems, which apparently seemed to have been unresolved at the time, but needed their solution? What I was told from the high Ukrainian rostrum: don't worry, it's just that you don't want to vote and you're trying to disrupt this kind of reform, and soon this problem will be solved. In what way was it proposed? A quick bill was introduced, by the way, by committee members, parliamentarians, not reformers. I'd like to see how the reformers see this kind of change. And they suggested that for a year they postpone the proper introduction of the Law on the New System of Courts, instead of leaving the old system. If you take the transcript of that session and the previous speech, you'll see that they're actually reproducing the ones that we're finally going to adopt next year's law and we're going to be able to launch a new court system. I assure you, my friends, we will be looking at such a bill again in a year. It's an extremely tiny, cumbersome job that can't be solved even in a year or two. It's obviously taking into account the reform of the court that you're proposing, and you're proposing at the same time, I'll remind you, a whole series of other fundamental changes in the judicial system and the adjacent institutions, need an extra lie of time. So, of course, it's different.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, on the one hand, this is a technical bill, I agree. But on the other hand, this bill quite clearly reflects what you're doing in what you call reform. Indeed, on July 17, 2020, one year and four months ago, opposition officials warned the majority that colleagues needed to reform collectively if you were changing areas. By the way, you did it in an unconstitutional way, and the constitutional application of "The Fatherland" is under consideration in the Constitutional Court. Yeah, well, even if you did, you had to do it in parallel and do it with the system. And you've broken up these two questions and today the country is living in complete disunity and complete chaos, because the areas are one and the jurisdiction of the courts is completely different and it sounds, as the classic said, slightly fatter. Because today, let's say that the jurisdiction of the court sounds like the following. The jurisdiction of the Turkish District Court covers the former Turkic district of Lviv, which is a complete absurdity and propaganda. In fact, it's the system's work of greatness -- not reforming. By the way, today, as Mr. Head of the Supreme Council said, is a television producer. So you all continue to work as television producers instead of doing normal professional work and doing normal reforms. Just like with the courts, with the jurisdiction of the courts, you did what you did. Similarly, you have done so with the WCC, which does not exist in Ukraine for more than two and a half years. As in Ukraine, there have been two supreme courts for two and a half years of your caedence, although it was created by the predecessors to you, but two and a half years of your cadence nothing happens. Instead of taking off the nodes, we have to move on to real and professional work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u96	I'd like to invite you to the floor of Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. And after that, I understand there's no one, we're going to vote. Please. Oh, I see, I see. Shufrich, after this. I see, yes. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u97	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please pass the word to Germany, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u98	Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u99	Germano Vasil Ivanovich. "The opposition platform is for life." Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to say that, like a year ago, we put the wagon ahead of the horsemen. That's the question. We did not systematically get involved in the reform of the judicial system and the territorial system of administration; we did not tie up at the time to paralyse the activities of the judicial branch of government in Ukraine. And today they're stuck. And so look at what the experts say in this account, what you look at, please leave what was, let the courts work until the court system is changed. You'll see how these days the system of constitutional jurisdiction and the courts of general jurisdiction has been disrupted. This is unacceptable. So that's the law for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u100	Please, the Lubinian People's Deputy. And then we go to the vote. Members, please take your seats. Please, Dmitri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u101	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour of this bill. Moreover, we are willing to vote on the basis as a whole. Everyone understands it's a technical law, we have to vote. I'm not going to repeat the words of our colleagues that we support, that it really wasn't entirely right to reform the administrative and territorial system, that we had to do everything in the complex. But we have what we have. Therefore, it is necessary to continue for at least a year. But our national MPs already understand that in a year we will be voting for a bill like this again, because in a year's time, it's impossible in principle to do so -- to bring all the courts, all the district courts in Ukraine to order and order. That's why we vote yes, but, mono coalition, draw conclusions from such reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee's conclusion is on the ground and in general. If we vote on the basis, there won't be any objections in general, right? I therefore propose to the committee to adopt a draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges on the territorial jurisdiction of the local courts in Ukraine to adopt a law amending the system of local courts in Ukraine in relation to the establishment of areas (the registration number of project 5387). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:39:10]] For 277 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, I then propose to the committee to adopt in general, taking into account the position of the committee and the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and the status of judges on the territorial jurisdiction of local courts in Ukraine, pending the adoption of a law amending the system of local courts in Ukraine in connection with the establishment (licensation) of areas (register No. 5387). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:40:00]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Next, we have a second reading, a draft of the Mediation Act (project registration number 3504). I invite the chairman of the committee, Andriy Evgenovich Kostin, to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, who will have them.? Yes, Mikhail Mikhailovich, I know. Other than the National Deputy of Cimbaluk? The cream will, right, insist? Who else? All of it. So let's get started. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, three minutes of the show, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u103	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! In fact, mediation is a non-judicial, voluntary, confidential procedure in which the parties, through a mediator, seek to prevent or resolve conflict, refers to administrative, family, labour, economic, and administrative and criminal matters, through negotiations. Is such a procedure necessary? Certainly, especially now that the courts have been re-loaded. But I would like to draw attention to the conclusion of scientific and expert management, because the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council insists on further work on the drafting prepared by the committee for second reading, because it considers the substantive gaps necessary for technical legal work. Preparation for the second reading of the draft text suffers from a lack of clarity of definitions, a lack of sufficient and completed mechanisms to implement the provisions of the law, as well as meaningful gaps that have a major impact on quality mediation. As far as the quality of preparation is concerned, many of the project’s standards are declarant, without normative influence. This does not fully take into account existing international and European standards, especially regarding the comprehensive and full normalization of the order of mediation, since the project sends to other laws and regulations, including codes, in determining the specific features of mediation. So this bill does not have all the mechanisms for mediation, as required by the basic branch law. Also unclear are the requirements for special training, age, education, practical experience of mediators, and the position regarding basic skills of meditation generally conflict. For example, Article 10 provides that the basic preparation of mediation is based on a program of not less than 90 hours of training, including 45 hours of practical training, and in the Final and Transitional Situations it is stipulated that mediators are also identified by persons who have been trained in basic skills for at least 48 hours before this law becomes effective, and this is not confirmed by special certificates. The project does not determine exactly what basic skills in this range the mediator should know. We "for" the principle of the introduction of mediation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u104	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Please, People's Chamberlain. What will you do, or will you take a few minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u105	Mr. Chairman, I have more than 10 rights denied. I'll ask you three minutes without a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u106	Please, three minutes, national deputy Shkrum. After that, Knyazevitch will have one more amendment and we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u107	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, you know, this bill is as special to me as it is to many thousands of people who use mediation, literally, every month, and to mediators from various schools and districts in Ukraine who have put, without exaggeration, on this bill some 10 years of life. Six years ago I was standing here in this central hall, it seemed so long ago that it was so scary, and two hours in a row I reported on the full procedure, because then we were having a full-procedure mediation, this bill. And then most of the people's deputies and Ukrainians heard that this is really a mediation, that it has nothing to do with meditation, with other practices, that it's actually a story outside the court's alternative dispute resolution tool. You know that more people in Ukraine believe in life on Mars, official statistics than honest judges and honest, impartial Ukrainian courts. This leads to the fact that, first of all, the courts in Ukraine are becoming very busy cases. For a long time, these cases are being considered, they are very expensive for our citizens, and there is no trust in the courts. Unfortunately, the "ministers of the people" couldn't recover it now either. But confidence in alternative means of settling disputes is increasing. And that's exactly what we're saying about helping the courts, separating the courts, especially the courts of the first instance, from those cases that can be resolved quickly by alternative means of dispute resolution. Plus, it's a very important story -- to restore the Ukrainians' trust in each other a little bit. Because you know, colleagues, not just in politics, but in general in our country, that's where the winner takes everything, and the loser loses everything. And it's very scary to build a successful country when we don't trust each other. We hate not only the politicians of the people's deputies, but even the neighbor, the business partner, anyone with whom we have a minimum dispute. Therefore, meditation helps to resolve such disputes voluntarily by choosing a trusted third party who has been trained seriously to settle disputes. This will be especially important in family disputes, especially in child custody disputes, perhaps in other forms, for God's sake, customs, administrative disputes. Is this bill ideal? No, it's not. But I think it's frame, base and very, very right. And I would also like to thank a professional committee that's spent a lot of time on it, and a subcommittee, and also the National Mediators' Association, the Ukrainian Mediators' Centre, the Ukrainian Academy of Mediators, and all the other mediators from different areas, from different places that are still doing this mediation today, but they're really waiting for this law. I think this law should unite the hall. I will certainly vote in favour. And I hope that mediation will come, including in this Supreme Council, and in politics, and we will learn to resolve our disputes with some minimal trust in each other, and finally in the country, that confidence will be restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u108	The word is given to the national deputy Knyazevitch Ruslan Petrovich. Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! To be honest, I am in a rather disturbing mood right now, since this is the third attempt to adopt this bill in my memory. The previous two failed, once the bill did not end up in the session room at all, and another time, which Mrs. Skrum had just mentioned, there were literally few votes. And it seems to me that we cannot miss this opportunity right now to accept, as I am concerned, the bill of lading not only for us, not only for the judiciary, not only for those who will be directly involved, but also for every citizen who will receive an extremely important additional dispute settlement institution. We owe this institution to our people a long time ago, and we owe it to our partners because it's a bill that's been in the Association Agreement since 2014, and unfortunately, it hasn't been reached. Do I like everything about him? No, it's not. But its adoption will allow for a basic bill that can be improved, to which changes can be made. That's why I insist on accepting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u110	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy, Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, one minute. After that, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich 1 minute, and we move on to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I remember exactly the same bill, also the third session, but last time we convened a parliament, our colleague, Alona Skrum, was the author. I remember how many opportunities, how much effort has been made both by her and by our colleague in the past of the calling of Igor Alekseyev, and Mr. Knazević, and other national deputies to get the law to the second reading. And unfortunately, there weren't enough literally 10 votes to accept it. This law is important. It's primarily important to create a great, positive business climate in our country. That's why we need to adopt this bill today, and I urge all colleagues to vote with a green button. This is a really important law that will help business breathe more freely and work in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u112	Thank you. I still see Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko. Do you have any rights to this bill? For 1 minute Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko, and the final word will be Andrew Evgenovich Kostin, and we will go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! First. I mean, of course, this bill needs to be supported. For history, I'm going to say that for the first time, it's probably the first time that we're going to talk about citizens' rights and justice, the protection of justice, not the law that judges are implementing. Because this is where the mediators will work, coming out of customary law, coming out of citizens' rights and coming out of justice. And this solution to today's issues is not what's going to unload the judicial system, but what's going to be the solution. The living conditions that have set objective, objective conditions for today’s citizens. So I would ask for our support and our faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u114	Thank you. Final one minute, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u115	Dear fellow Ukrainian citizens! I want to thank all those who have fought for this law over the past 12 years. I want to thank the mediation community, which has joined together to create this bill. I want to thank the Ministry of Justice, which has joined us, our international partners, the subcommittee and the committee, and all of you, dear colleagues, for having supported this bill today, I believe, and we will initiate a mediation procedure at the legislative level that will give impetus to its development and allow this procedure to spread among citizens to resolve their personal disputes, to resolve business conflicts that will make our society more ecological. Thank you all for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. It's a really important bill. That is why I am very pleased to vote on the committee's proposal to accept the draft Mediation Act (registration number 3504) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[11:52:34]] For 302 Decision taken. Greetings, colleagues, the Mediation Act has been passed in general. Thank you, Andrey Evgenovich, and thank you all. Thank you all for joining this beautiful bill. Dear colleagues, the next bill we have is three bills: 3860, 3860-1, 3860-D. We can't vote them one by one, it'll be two different views, Andry Evgenovich. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine (the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Code of Administrative Justice, the Civil Code of Ukraine) to ensure the use of an official e-mail address as well. Then we have 4360 more. There's something I can't understand, one second. Dear colleagues, let's first vote on these bills in a simplified manner. I remind you, we need to get 150 votes. Please vote. [[11:54:10]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the words of the author of the bill, National Deputy of Ukraine Fedienek Alexander Pavlovich. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u117	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I present Bill 3860 on amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (the Master's Procedural Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Justice, the Civil Code of Ukraine) to ensure the use of an official e-mail address. This bill, as well as projects 3860-1 and 3860-d, introduces with the aim of establishing an official electronic address for legal persons, natural persons entrepreneurs, lawyers, arbitrators and others, as well as individuals who will be used for official correspondence. I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Legal Policy who have finalized my alternative bill, my alternative bills, but also the amended bill should be seriously worked out in preparation for the second reading. In drafting Bill 3860, it was based on the fact that some codes and documents already use the term "official e-mail address", so that's the term used in my Bill 3860. Colleagues, Project 3860-d introduces the concept of "official e-mail address" in the Single State Register of Legal Persons, Business Persons and Public Forms, along with the term "official e-mail address". This kind of formulation will lead to legal confusion when there are two terms for "official e-mail" and "official email address". This will especially have a negative effect on business correspondence, on court conduct. Both the mail address and the e-mail address should be officially the only one. And the bill needs to determine that this is an official e-mail address or an official e-mail address. And only one of these addresses should be in a single state register and have official status. Colleagues, I propose to support the amended Bill 3860-d, and the Main Committee to rework it for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u118	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the head of the committee's committee on legal policy, Babi Roman Vejacheslavovich. You're going to have four minutes and we're going to take a break. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u119	Good afternoon, colleagues! Your opinion is proposed for consideration of draft laws amending certain legislation on the use of an e-mail address. As early as August 2020, the first drafts proposed to settle the issue were introduced. This is a bill that the previous reporter reported, initiated by Alexander Fedienck and others, and an alternative bill that I passed. It was also served. By the way, these bills have been the result of the work of a working group on the digitization of justice and the neighbouring legal institutions, which is formed by the Committee on Legal Policy. Bill No. 4360 has also been submitted, and we will consider it a little later, the authorship of national MP Mikli Stefanchuk and others, who also regulates the use of e-mail addresses when reporting to court. After receiving the conclusions of the GNEU, the opinions of the judges, lawyers, experts on all these bills, which, of course, made certain observations and proposals, the committee decided on the basis of all the bills submitted, taking into account their position and novelties, taking into account the comments and proposals made, to prepare a draft law that was finalized at number 3860-d. So what are the key positions of this finalized bill? For the time being, e - mail addresses are mentioned in procedural codes, but they are optional. And the very fact that this e-mail is addressed in almost all cases cannot be considered to be a proper message from the party or a proper handover of a procedural document. The bill proposes to introduce and regulate an additional modern channel of communication between the court and the trial participant – the address of the official e-mail. And according to this bill, we're actually going to have three equivalent channels of communication. The first is traditional mail. It remains and will be used with those involved in the trial who, for one reason or another, cannot use either the EUTS system or e-mail. The second channel of communication is through a personal office in the single judicial information and telecommunications system. Recently, about a month ago, this function was introduced into mandatory operation by means of the adopted Law on the Step - by - Step Implementation of the EUCI and the fairly operational work of the High Council of Justice, the Council of Judges, and the SAA. And the third channel of communication, which is the novelty of this bill, is the address of an official e-mail. This method of communication will apply to cases where the participant does not have a personal office in the EU or does not wish to register there, or does not have the appropriate skills to work in the EU, but at the same time has an electronic mailbox. The bill obliges those entities that are included in the EDR (in the Single State Register of Legal Persons, Business Persons and Public Forms) to indicate the address of the official e-mail in this register. To our conviction, businesses should be responsible and open to communication with third parties as well as public formations. It's from this register that the court will be able to get data on an electronic communication channel, an e-mail address with a trial participant. In doing so, documents sent to such mail will be deemed to be officially sent. In addition, the party may, on its own written application to the court, determine the electronic address to be used for receiving or sending court documents. This bill brings the standards of procedural codes into greater harmony with the development of modern electronic documents and is an important step forward in the process of digitizing court disputes. Lets substantially reduce the costs of the court and, in fact, the participants in the trial for sending and printing court notices and court decisions in paper form. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u120	Thank you, Roman. Dear colleagues, there's a 30-minute recess. The discussion will take place after the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, we continue to consider matters of the order of the day. We finished the break. I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich, to announce the Committee's conclusion on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, the committee has taken the appropriate decision to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a revised draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of electronic addresses, and to recommend that the first reading should be based on Bill 3860-d. Accordingly, bills under registration number 3860 and alternative 3860-1 should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u123	Thank you, Andrey Evgenovich. I understand there is a need to discuss these bills. Therefore, I ask you to register: two in favour, two in opposition to the discussion of these bills. Please. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u124	Please pass the word to Knyazevitch Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u125	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u126	Thank you, Mr. Head. Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich, for your word. My friends, I have such a strong impression that the drafters of the bill did not know that changes would be introduced and introduced in a step-by-step manner. The EU ETS will be introduced in stages, including in the private office. Because if this was done with knowledge of the matter, then it turns out that we are deliberately doing everything we can to ensure that the EU does not work in this part. Today, the head of the subcommittee was quite right to say that it is already an alternative system, which is, as it were, an alternative to the written version of the appeal to the court and the corresponding information of the citizens. If you get out of logic, what if those people who didn't turn to you? And they haven't opened a personal office, they can use an official e-mail address, because they have it, so I assure you that no one is going to go to the personal office in the EU. And what's been done is all the strengths that have been achieved, including within the working group that works for me, which works for the committee, will be absolutely worthless. So this bill, I think it's hasty, you don't have to accept it right now, you have to wait for the personal office to work. Moreover, to adopt it before the adoption of Law 3681, where there is a concept where the concept of an official electronic address is deciphered, where the relevant rules change the relevant rules in the law on lawyers, "On executive conduct" and a whole range of other laws are simply not appropriate. These bills were registered even one day and the author accordingly meant that they should be accepted in a package. We break them up in time and there will be the same problem as there was, including the new system of judicial bodies. So, my friends, we're not voting for this. This bill cannot yet be voted on, we need to see how the EU works and only after examining the practice can we make appropriate changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u127	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Greenchuk Oksani Anatolyevni, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Dennis Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u129	Please, National Deputy Maslov Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u130	Thank you. Your Honor, fellow National MPs, do you know that the first e-mail was sent exactly half a century ago -- in 1971? I use e-mails daily in my activities. I'm sure you use e - mail in your daily life. So why aren't the courts still using electronic mail? The same is true of legal persons. The site, social networks, popular markets, natives, abroad, all of this is impossible to implement without e-mail. The proposed bill allows the courts to send official letters to the official e-mail address of legal persons. Each court in Ukraine has its own electronic address, so this will make life easier for all the parties to the trial, allowing for quick and prompt correspondence. E - mails will be considered official. Yes, statistics show that more than 700,000 cases remained unresolved as a result of 2020. I used to work as a district court judge. Believe me, this bill will allow you to deal with matters more quickly and also to save money on mail. So the "Serial of the People" faction will support this bill, encourage you to support it, and say that we will allow the courts to go beyond the 20th century at last in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u131	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyevich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u132	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I ask you to pass the word Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u133	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u134	Thank you, Mr. Head. This is certainly the most important thing right now that Parliament should waste its time on even a reduced procedure. Please tell me. I have now carefully reviewed the questions raised in the next session. Now, as you say, the opposition does not block the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but we work in a peaceful regime. Why is there not enough time to consider matters that you consider to be priority issues? And now we'd be looking at completely different questions: gas tariffs, pension increases. You find an extra 2.5 billion dollars, and you ask for an even shorter procedure to speed up their release so you can bury them faster. And we're asking questions. Or maybe we should send this money to modernize clinics, to expand our ability today to protect our citizens from a real threat -- threats to saving lives from COVID? Today, look at the dire situation in the country: 838 died yesterday. Today, we have to unite around the main issue: ensuring the lives of our citizens. Around the issue of what is more urgent today is to unite around the issue of the winter’s walking by normal guaranteed tariffs and to ensure that these services are provided to our citizens in general. What's the point of being in e-mails? Here's the e-mail and the maids in your head. It's unacceptable. You have to fight for what's important if you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u135	The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u136	Klimenko, "Justice." Please pass the word to Jaroslav Jurczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u137	Jaroslav Romanovich Jurchishin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u138	Jaroslav Jurchisin, “Justice. ” In fact, with two hands in favour of simplifying communication between our citizens and the courts, because we have a lot of cases that just don't come to the courts, even those that might be dealt with quickly, we see some risks in the bill. I'm not going to repeat what I used to say, actually, colleagues. That the didiatalization of the court, the systematization actually has to be harmonized, not in pieces, so that we can get lost again, where and how to pass. Now, before the first reading, even a committee-worked one, we have a number of comments, including that setting up an official e-mail address is also a constraint. Because now we're like citizens, or individuals who are entrepreneurs, or legal persons, can actually easily change their e-mail address. And the fact that even systems like Google or Facebook occasionally have problems is also a fact. Therefore, in this case only an official address can reduce the ability to communicate, and there is a need to work on this issue, probably until the second reading. But since we have long witnessed that the laws in this room between the first and the second readings have all the chances of getting worse, but not so much better, so at this stage, we will hold on to this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u139	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite two colleagues who have been asked to attend, Sergio Jaroslavovich Rudik and Alona Skrum. And then we're going to go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Sergei Jaroslavovich Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, my colleague Maslov said that he was constantly using e - mail and that since 1971 this email has been used by more and more people. And I'll tell you what most FOPs don't use this e-mail. Because there is no internet in every second neighborhood in the Cherkas region. Mikhailovka is a huge village in the Cherkas region of Cherkas region, with 50 percent of users. Balaklea is very close to Smila, 50 percent of the users. Sagunjka, Little Smiley, Makiyivka, Buda Makiyivka This list can be continued and continued. And now that you have voted in favour of this bill, you make it mandatory not to receive a person, a FOP, or a limited company responsible for this e - mail, for objective reasons such as what he has received, a person will not find out about it or come to court or be wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u141	Dear colleagues! I'd like to invite National Deputy Alona Shkrum, Fatherland faction. Then we go to the vote. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u142	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues certainly need to move on to more advanced means of communication, and I fully support dijitalization. But there's a big "but," because here human rights and rights, including the FOPs, who have the right to go to court and learn about court hearings, are still a priority. So I'm not going to talk about the level of dijitalization in our villages, and that's what Mr. Rudik and others told us, and we just have to do our homework here. And I'm going to say something that concerns me personally, that I've seen more than once. If we're saying that the delivery of court notices is considered to have been delivered from the time that an official email was sent by the court and it took five days. So it seems to me that what was sent to my e-mail address or FOP doesn't mean that I got it or FOP got it. Today, there is a function in the email, including from the moment the person confirmed that she got this email. I think it needs to be worked out for the second reading, it can't just be thrown into the post office.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. People's deputies please take their seats. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt Bill 3860-d is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of e-mail addresses. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? All right, let's do it again. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of e-mail addresses (registration number of bill 3860-d). Please vote. [[12:47:33]] For 237 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next bill we have is a draft Act amending some legislative acts to ensure that the parties to the trial are properly reported and that copies of the court decisions are sent. Is there a need to discuss this bill? It's 4360, it's related. Is there a need? Okay. Then I would like to put to the vote the proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:48:27]] For 238. Decision taken. I invite the author of the bill of the Ukrainian National MP Mikola Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u144	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I sincerely thank you for supporting Bill 3860-D. And I want to point out that an e-mail address will enable more efficient litigation and a huge budget savings on postage stamps, while not preventing this possibility from being used in any court proceedings by the parties to this trial. In order not to delay time, I want to point out that my bill was included in the preparation of the 3860-d. Therefore, I ask you to support the committee's decision under my bill and not to take it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing that this bill be rejected. Is there any need to discuss, or should we vote and move on? The committee's decision is to reject. Let's vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the committee to reject the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to ensure that the parties to the trial are duly reported and that copies of the court decisions are sent (project registration number 430). Ready to vote? It's a deflection. Yes, I'm asking you to decline. Please support and vote. [[12:50:24]] For 295 Decision taken. The bill is rejected. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, the following bill, registration number 4255, is a draft law amending article 139 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Then I'll ask. I'll bet you I'll consider this with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:51:04]] For 242 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Bogdan Evgenovich Drapítý. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u146	Good afternoon! Good afternoon, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national deputies! Your point is to consider the draft Law on Amendments to Article 139 of the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine (Registration No. 4255), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The proposed draft Law proposes to amend part one of article 139 of the Code of Administrative Justice, which provides that when a court is satisfied with a suit, a party who is not the subject of an authority that is liable to compensation or payment in accordance with the provisions of the Code is charged with the budgetary allocations of the subject of the authority that has been made by the defendant in the case, or if his official or official officer has acted in the case. At the same time, only judicial costs associated with the involvement of witnesses and the conduct of expert studies are incurred when the subject’s appeal is met. Thus, by establishing certain privileges for one party to the case, one of the basic principles of judiciality, provided for in article 129, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, was violated, namely, the equality of all parties to the proceedings before the law. It's about legal equality, which provides for the inability to set privileges or restrictions on any of the signs. The bill proposes that appropriate changes be made to part two and third of article 139 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice to some extent remedy the situation that has arisen and to provide for the possibility, if the subject is granted an order of authority, to charge not only the costs involved in the involvement of witnesses and the conduct of expert studies but also the legal costs of the applicant for payment to the court. The adoption of the bill will not only make it possible to compensate all the parties to the trial, but also significantly to save the budget spent on court fees. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u147	Thank you. I'm sorry, now, now, because the papers are lost. Yeah, there you go. Dear colleagues, I invite a co-rapporteur for this bill by a member of the Committee on Legal Policy, Paulis Pavel Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u148	Good afternoon, Presidium, Good afternoon, Ukraine. At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Legal Policy considered at its meeting on September 8, 21st, a draft law amending article 139 of the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to the explanatory note to the bill, its aim is to ensure that the principle of equality of all the parties to the proceedings in administrative proceedings is implemented, that the financial burden on the State budget is reduced. In order to achieve the stated goal, the government proposes to amend part two and third of article 139 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality, which provides that the legal costs of the subject of the legal authority to pay the court’s fees are charged to the court, with partial satisfaction of the suit of the subject’s authority, proportional to the size of the required requirements. One of the requirements of the basic principles of judicial action is the equality of all parties before the law. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights and the State Court Administration of Ukraine support the adoption of the bill. On the basis of the Legal Policy Committee, it decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending article 139 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. And if the bill is adopted as a law to entrust the committee with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council to carry out drafting and technical legal drafting of the bill. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as I understand it, there is a need for discussion. Please sign up: two for, two against, to discuss this bill. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u150	The position of our faction on this issue. Of course, if he wasn't sick, I'd introduce Andrew Petrovich Osadchuk, but so far I can say from him that we support this bill, "for." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u151	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Synth of Oleg Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u152	Please pass the word to Knyazevitch Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u153	Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u154	Thank you, Oleg Mikhailovich. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, what's the bill about? I'll give you a moment's notice. When you try a state or a state authority, you lose a case, and this often happens in our courts, you are now obliged to compensate for all the costs incurred by the State in this trial. You, the man who's already paid for these court charges. You paid taxes that went into the budget that were provided for the public authority during the trial. You are now obliged to pay the same price for the second time. You! You'll be skinned! And when you talk about the economy of government funds, people are good, you have a conscience? We've specifically provided you with a huge budget for these needs because there are no such cases, and you've been a year and you're coming back to this point. What else do you miss? What are you spending in your own pocket? These are government funds that people have already paid once. How many people will you abuse in this regard? Stop touching the court! Get your hands off the court! Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u155	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u156	Please give the floor to the colleague Sergio Volodymyrovich Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u157	Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u158	Thank you, Mr. Head. You know, I think that the whole country has been waiting for the last two and a half years for a monopoly, a real judicial reform, and an improvement in justice and systemic judicial reform. Instead of serious things, we were initially asked how the Supreme Court should be controlled, Bill 1008, which was then recognized by the unconstitutional Constitutional Court, which was completely criticised by the Venice Commission. Then the WCC, the WCC, the WCC, apologized, and two and a half years in the country did not have a choice of judges. As of today, the financing of the judicial system has not been resolved, and the judicial system has led to a situation in the early 1990s where there was neither paper nor envelope in the courts nor any possibility of sending documentation at all. Instead, we are offered point-by-point bills, which are infringing Ukrainian citizens into spending more money on organizing the trial. In fact, all of this has nothing to do with improving the work of the judiciary. We have to go back, first of all, to bringing the system into the system of the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine, and not to defer every year this is a question that you've done a few bills back. Rather than relying on Ukrainian citizens in court, it is necessary to deal with the financing of the judicial system so that the judicial system is not financed on a residual basis. And then we all wonder what they do the way they do, or don't have money for a normal job, they don't have enough judges in the judicial system. There are courts where, if a man, if a judge, God forbid, he gets sick, it is impossible to administer justice. This requires directing our legislative initiative and wasting legislative time, not just any nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u159	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, "The Party for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u160	I'd like to give Rudik a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u161	Sergey Jaroslavovich Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u162	Dear Ukrainians, what is this brilliant bill aimed at? If you had to sue the state for your rights, for example, to pay a salary that you didn't get in time; for the stormy tariffs that you've imposed, for the new genius of some government; for any other violation of your rights, and judging the state you've lost, now you have to pay for it in your own pocket. Do you think that's fair? We initiators of the bill argue that before a trial, all parties to the trial must have equal procedural rights. And if the defendant has lost this trial, he has to pay at the same level as everyone. Do you imagine David and Goliath standing up for their rights under equal conditions? Do you imagine yourself, the Cabinet of Ministers, the tax administration or the court administration, which on equal rights are judged by a citizen? We do not say where this citizen lives, in rural areas, or in urban areas. But most of the lawsuits will be won by the state, unfortunately not by a citizen. So, society, I would, frankly, abstain from voting for this bill, despite all the wonderful thoughts that were apparently in his authors. Let's make it possible for people to pay for gas, for light, for water, for normal social benefits, pensions and wages, and then we'll put them on a level playing field with government authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u163	A word. Yes, please, we still have Kostin Andriy Evgenovich. And then we're going to go to the vote. People's deputies please come into the hall and take their seats. Please, Andrew Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, what this bill is about. It's very simple -- it's about equality for all the participants in the process. This bill only applies to one case: when a state refers to any other person, it pays the court. And if she, a State, wins this case, this court must be compensated for the answer. That is the norm that now applies to citizens. That is, when a citizen wins a case, appeals to the state and wins, pays the court and wins the case, then the state compensates the civil court. All we do is establish justice and equality among all the parties to the trial. I mean, that's all it's about. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Let's move on to making a decision. There's a proposal for the committee to take as a basis and generally with the necessary technical and legal rights. But we will vote first in turn, as we always do. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt the draft Law amending article 139 of the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine (registration number 4255). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:04:36]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can I put it all together? There's a denial. There's a denial of three factions. Okay, then. And then you can put the lines down to the second reading. Let us then, honourable colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, put to the vote the proposal to cut down half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments and preparations for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u166	There's a question from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u167	What are some of the questions? Vassil Ivanovich, I'll set up, then I'll give you the procedure. Okay? Let me, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, put to the vote the proposal to cut down half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments and to prepare for the second reading of the bill registration number 4255, this is a draft law amending article 139 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:05:55]] For 229 Decision taken. Please, Vasil Ivanovich, 1 minute, but only from the procedure. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, let's not go back to that question, you already have a chronic condition regarding a reduced procedure. Who gives such a right, and is there an exception? It is a matter of protecting the interests of citizens as the subject of judicial proceedings. In administrative justice, the right to a court with the State is granted and protected by the Constitution. In administrative justice, I repeat. It's all cut out all the time. Do you want to fill the budget? Dear colleagues, don't laugh at the procedures and don't laugh at the legislative acts that are designed to raise the budget at the expense of citizens' money. It's a disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u169	Answering your question. This right is conferred on part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. The decision is taken by the Hall, which has been adopted. Then we go to the next question. Project Registration Number 5490 is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the powers of higher specialized courts to deal with cases of administrative offences. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Yes. Then I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. [[13:07:33]] For 235 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of the Deputy Justice Minister of Kolomiets Valery Rudolphovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u170	Good afternoon, honourable parliamentarians and parliamentarians! As we know, one condition for the proper functioning of the rule of law is respect for the courts. For failing to comply with this requirement, individuals are called upon to legal responsibility, as provided for in article 129 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In accordance with article 50 of the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Court of Justice has shown disrespect for the court or judge of persons who are party to a trial or who are present in a court of law, as a result of which responsibility has been established by law, in particular the Code of Administrative Offences, and the article is called "Prosecution of the Court or Constitutional Court of Ukraine". However, the judges of the higher specialized courts, such as the High Court of Anticorruption, still do not have such powers. And it was at the request of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court that a bill was drafted by the Ministry of Justice to resolve the issue. And we suggest that we complete articles 213 and 221. The Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, according to which, in fact, the higher specialized courts, including the VACS, have been given the authority to deal with the cases of administrative offences in question in accordance with the procedure established for the local courts, the courts of appeal and the Supreme Court. I would like to point out that the bill has also been supported by the Office of the Attorney General, the Constitutional Court, the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, and GNEU. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u171	Thank you. I would like to invite a fellow reporter, deputy head of the Committee on the Protection of the Law, Viacheslav Anatolyevich Medanik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u172	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Your consideration is proposed by the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the Powers of Higher Specialized Courts on Administrative Offences (submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine) (Registration No. 5490). With regard to the purpose of the bill, it is for the judges of the higher specialized courts to be empowered to deal with cases of administrative offences referred to in article 185 pr. 3 Ukraine’s Code on Administrative Offences, a violation of the courts or the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. It should be noted that at the time the last changes were made to Article 185 prime 3. The Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences (2017), mentioned above, has not yet been established, and the bill removes the unequal positions of judges. The bill proposes to make only procedural changes to article 213 and article 221. 1 Ukraine Code on Administrative Offences The Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis and generally as a law. Dear colleagues, please support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as I understand it, there is a need to discuss this bill. Please sign up: two for, two for. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u174	Please pass the word to Jurchino Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u175	Jaroslav Romanovich Jurchishin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u176	Yes, in fact, one of the basic principles of justice itself -- Jaroslav Jurchisin, the Justice Union -- is that all the representatives of one or the other can use appropriate rights and duties. If other judges have such powers and are able to conduct the process effectively, with the ability to respond to both the individual and the intolerant conduct of the trial, the judges of the higher courts should have the same powers. So it's very simple, we vote yes, we correct the inaccuracies that were allowed in the drafting of legislation before, and we have adequate trials in all the courts. The Justice Union is in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u177	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Ion's Maria Mikolayovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u178	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u179	Please give the floor to Ruslan Petrovich Knazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Maria. Dear colleagues, the point is that this was no mistake and there was no absolutely conscious solution. When laws were passed both on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court and on the Supreme Court of Intellectual Property, it was properly established in procedural codes. There was not yet a new edition of KUPAP, including the articles in (213, 221), and they could not be predicted. However, when the corresponding changes in the KUPAP were accepted in that part and changes were made, the changes were not supported. These included an expansion of the number of courts to which the relevant standard applies. We will certainly uphold this rule, because we believe that contempt of court should be very harsh in all courts without exception, and the higher specialized courts have the same right as any other representative of the judicial institution. There are no objections to this part, including that we are willing to support even immediately the bill as a whole. I only have one question. What about the High Court of Intellectual Property, why did everyone forget about it? For two years now, the competition has ended, and the previous Senior Qualifications Commission has failed its results. And it feels like nothing's happening, two years at all, some absolute vacuum. I have a question. Perhaps we would like to consider this question in some way in the committee? Have the newly created bodies been asked to understand, at least, what position, what is going on with this court? Because we're building standards under it, changing KUPAP, procedural codes, and for some reason we can't understand why this court doesn't work. I hope that it will work as well as the work of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, and soon it will show its absolute effectiveness. And we support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u181	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavelek Jury Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u182	Dear Mr. Head, please pass the word to Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u183	With great pleasure. Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u184	Dear colleagues! Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". First of all, I'd like to say that the bill is about specialized courts, and unfortunately we don't have them today. First of all, where does that court boast about intellectual property courts? He appeared only because someone worked for the office of the President, an expert in the area. We thought it over, we thought it over, and we forgot it. That's the first one. Secondly, if we're dealing with specialized courts, it's imperative that they have the scope of their powers, the extent of their powers. Because this specialty, which is designed for today, does not allow us to determine where the jurisdiction of specialized courts works. Take a look at the Specialization of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. To this day his work and creation and his authority are challenged in the Constitutional Court. There is open conduct in the Constitutional Court and the outcome of the decision. After this decision, we need to think. And imagine that if a decision is taken on the unconstitutionality of this law, if the President does not reopen the Constitutional Court. Our faction cannot support this bill because it must be introduced into the legal field of the Constitution and specialized courts. Such authorizations should be given to these courts rather than modifying the Code of Administrative Responsibility. That's why we're getting out of this. And secondly, if we refer to specialized courts, I'm going to have to talk to you about again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u185	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u186	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, both the country as a whole and the Supreme Council of Ukraine continue to celebrate the day of the television producer, as the Head of the Supreme Council said. It's a point law that doesn't solve any of the global issues of the functioning of the judicial system. Now, the next line is "slice" instead of really serious, solid work to finally get citizens access to quality, fair and fair justice. For two and a half years of active power, we have never received any understanding of their view of judicial reform. Instead, we have bills that spank holes. Instead, we have laws that in themselves create problems. I want to remind you that we are two and a half years away from the selection of judges, that the judicial system lacks about 30 percent of the judges, out of 7,000 more than 2,000 vacancies in court positions. The judicial system is chronically underfunded. Court employees, coworkers of the court’s apparatus receive a totally unacceptably low salary for their sufficiently complex work. And instead of looking at all the issues, instead of looking at a comprehensive view of the reform of the judicial system, we are asked to continue today to consider dot bills which for Ukrainian citizens decide nothing and do not bring Ukrainian citizens closer to fair and just justice. The day of the TV producer continues, with which I welcome all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, would anyone else like to make a statement on this matter? If there aren't any, please ask the national deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal to take as a basis and as a whole. But as we agreed, we'll do it in turn. I therefore propose to the committee that the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences should be adopted as a basis for the adoption of the draft Law on Administrative Offences (project registration number 5490). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:20:31]] For-286 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I can put it all together, can't I? [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues, Vasil Ivanovich's right. Vassil Ivanovich, maybe we're not going to cancel out on a procedure that you don't like very much. Vasil Ivanovich, so to speak, let's get them to the second draft. Vasil Ivanovich, well, it's very necessary. You deny it, don't you? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Well, one faction denies it, so I'm going to cut the line. No, no, you specifically, your faction specifically denies. I understand, don't I? Honorary colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules, have put to the vote a proposal to shorten the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments and to prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 5490), this is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the powers of higher specialized courts to deal with administrative offences. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:21:53]] For 246 Decision taken. Well, we realized the right to amend the second reading. Vasil Ivanovich, we look forward to your amendments. Thank you. Let's go to the next bill. Bill 5707 is a draft law on law enforcement. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss it? Then I'm going to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified way, and we're going to have to get 150 votes. Please vote. [[13:22:33]] For 230 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, the word for the report comes from the authors Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u189	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is proposed for consideration by the draft Law on Lawmaking. This is certainly the bill that this Supreme Council will be proud of, because this is the Constitution in the field of standardization, this is what we should adopt by establishing the only rules for adoption, action, and monitoring of legal acts. This bill has been drafted for more than two years. Its co-authorship included not only members of the "Serial of the People" faction, but also other factions, a number of legal institutions were involved. As a result, nearly 200 national deputies cosponsored the bill. This bill was fundamentally supported by the largest number of national deputies present in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main task of this bill is to establish and regulate the issues that we deal with every day. It's a question of normative and legal activity, it's a question of going through the hierarchy of legal acts, the question of relationship, the issue of monitoring of legal acts and their impact on social relations. And it does not just apply to the Supreme Council, it is universal rules for all subjects of standardizing activity. Once again, this is a major reform that we together can bring to an end and take pride in this Council. So please, I'm asking you. Today, almost 20 letters of support from scientific institutions have been received from universities for this bill. So I'm asking you to consider this bill, to support it and to work together for a second reading so that Ukraine gets the only, universal and systematic rules for the conduct of legal activity in Ukraine. Thank you and hopefully we'll do it in this Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u190	The word is given to the coreporter, deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyrski Sougiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u191	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. To your consideration today, there is really a systemic and fundamental bill that proposes to bring about the order of development, approval and validity of legal acts. In fact, it's a law on laws. Since 2009, Parliament has repeatedly tried to pass such a law, but political will has unfortunately not been enough. Instead of the bill that we are currently considering, there is unprecedented support for the number of national MPs who have acted as co-sponsors of the bill, which is 195 national MPs. I will point out that similar laws have long been in force in a number of states: Moldova, Armenia, Georgia, Bulgaria, Azerbaijan. In its conclusions, the Venice Commission has repeatedly called on Ukraine to adopt this bill and to regulate the development, adoption and monitoring of legislation. Thus, the Committee on Legal Policy considered the bill at its meeting and recommended that Parliament adopt it as a basis for its first reading as well as to invite the Head of the Supreme Council to announce at a plenary meeting when considering the bill in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules on the need to make proposals and amendments to correct clarifications, correct errors and other inaccuracies and contradictions in the text of the bill and other structural parts of the bill. For the second reading, we suggest that this bill should be widely discussed with a large number of experts and experts. And I am sure that this time the Supreme Council will certainly take advantage of its historic opportunity to adopt a bill that will regulate the drafting, adoption, monitoring and accounting of legislation. And this, colleagues, will be the bill we want.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a need to discuss it, I understand. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to Kovalchuku Alexander Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u193	Please pass on the word to Sougiri Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u194	Olga Suvigir, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, what is this bill about? First of all, it proposes to put Ukraine's independence in 30 years, clear rules, a hierarchy of legal and regulatory acts. Imagine today, there is nowhere in the legislation to determine which legislation is superior: the law, the President's decree, the act of the Cabinet of Ministers and so on. What jobs do when normative acts are adopted at different times, but they regulate the same issue and so forth. This all regulates the bill. Next, this bill regulates the need for public consultation in drafting a bill. He sets up a procedure for drafting a bill that is required to carry out an expert study. The bill also foresees the need for the implementation and maintenance of the Single State Register of Legislation. It is very important that the bill will provide for monitoring the application of adopted laws and other legal acts, and responding to the gaps and problems that are in the adopted legislation. I would like to point out that the Venice Commission has long been asking Ukraine to adopt such a bill and to bring into line with the problematic points that are now in our legislation. Almost all the post-Radians have settled this issue, and in such states there is either a law or a law on design, design and so on. Dear colleagues, I repeat that since 2009, unlike the parliaments of all previous calls, there has been a great and high consensus on the views of the MPs on the need for this bill. Let's take this chance and we'll be ashamed of the bill that we're going to adopt, both in front of our Ukrainian people, and in front of the students in the end. And it would be a shame to write about this bill in theory textbooks.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u196	The word is given to the National MP Motka Igor Fedorovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u197	Igor Molotock, the Matter. Request to pass the word to Dmitri Lubinci.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u198	Dmitri Lubinets, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, distinguished presidency, citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour of this bill. We have a lot of national MPs who have actually signed up for this legislative initiative. We can call it reform. The adoption process is actually improving. And it's probably the first time we've defined the hierarchy of legal acts, the relationship between them. So we think it's very right, very right. What's more, this bill clearly sets out procedures for the development of legislation. So the so-called white spots, they're cleaning up, so we can actually call it reform. We urge Parliament to vote. I draw your attention, distinguished national MPs, as always, to the conclusion of the GNEU. But we carefully analyzed them. We believe that until the second reading, they can and will need to be corrected. There are little problems in terminology, in definitions. But this can be done for the second reading. Therefore, the honourable national MPs may well be the right bill. We all worked together. I would like to personally thank Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, who initiated this bill. We all vote together and we accept it in the first reading today. We add to the second reading, and we accept the basic fine reform in our Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u200	Thank you. The word is given to Savras ’ Maxim Vitaliovich. But that's what I understand, Ruslan Petrovich, isn't it? Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u201	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I want to see you. Tell me, would you agree with me that this bill was worth considering in full procedure? You'd be able to make your position more widely known, not just yours, but the copyright team, not just the subscribers. And we understand that the signatories, they're basically signatories, and there are people who have worked on their work, including science, for many years in this part. We could participate more actively in the discussion. But that didn't happen. Now we have. You know, there's a noise room, nobody understands what's going on. We don't even know what we're looking at. We're looking at one of the most fundamental bills, perhaps for our cadence. In my mind, this is the fifth attempt to adopt such a bill. Such attempts began after the adoption of the Constitution. The Committee on Legal Policy drafted the first draft. Next, all attempts by both the committee and the ministers of justice were met with misunderstandings and rejections by parliament. Why? They couldn't understand what a hierarchy was, they couldn't agree on part of the hierarchy of legal acts. They couldn't understand what legal activity and legal acts were, whether it was just the work of an act or its implementation. And many other fundamental things that, Ruslan Alexiyovich, in this room, unfortunately we are not able to discuss fully. And that would be very good. I understand that there are enough signatories to adopt this bill in the first and second readings and perhaps not to rule. But it would be wise if we really would discuss it more seriously in the committee's walls, not in a hurry to prepare for the second reading, and involve all of us, and those who support what you've said about, and many of those, let's be open to those who have critical remarks and do not support this bill. It's okay, it's right. It would be wise if we even invited the authors of those old bills, which, thank God, will live, someone in active politics, someone beyond it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u202	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Jaroslav Ivanovich, Ironborn.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, what is this bill about? It is about making fine changes for us, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This bill on quality standardizing work. And thank you, and, Ruslan Alexiyovich, to you, and to all of our colleagues who have joined us, and to the European partners who have done a huge job that turned out to be 195 people's deputies, if I'm not mistaken, it's a record, signed this bill. Is there room for further processing and improvement? Of course, there is, as in any bill. But let's face it, it's a significant step forward for normal acts to come to us, so that the title of "the law of amendments to other laws" and the dot is no longer passed by the Cabinet of Ministers, so that we don't make very many mistakes, and so that we have the phrase that "loss cannot be pardoned" was not relevant in some areas, because some laws have missed either paragraphs or even whole articles. This bill provides the basis for normal norm - building work in Ukraine. And of course, as the Voice faction we will support, we are in co-authors. And if it's up to you to work on this bill for the second reading, of course, let's get on with it. But in the first reading, me and my colleagues are urging you to vote for this bill, I think it's good practice. And I hope that even in future concerns, scientific, thorough, expert approach will prevail over political relevance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u204	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. Then Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich and we will proceed to the vote. People's deputies, please take your seats. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u205	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Should We Adopt the Law on Lawmaking? Of course. Should we build a hierarchy of legislation at the legislative level? Perhaps this is settled in the theory of state and law, and not everything in the history of state and law must be translated into practical legislation. Does this law contain a number of constitutional warnings? Apparently so. Obviously there are standards that, let's say, can be used to limit the political rights of opposition to participate in the legal process. Is the legal and regulatory hierarchy properly built? Not to my conviction. So I agree with the colleagues who said that this bill should be adopted, looked at with great caution and did not exactly take the short-term procedure, but to have a very broad and thorough discussion. "Paternity" doesn't support the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u206	The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u207	Thank you, Mr. Head. Of course, I am personally pleased to be in such a group of co-authors -- both Mr. Ruslan and Mr. Dmitri. You never know what tomorrow will be, so we won't forget. Dear colleagues, very, very good law, although justice for the sake of it has already been noted to him. There are comments from both experts and individual colleagues. But I hope it will be accepted as quickly as possible. So today I urge the Supreme Council to unite around this initiative so that our next laws are more qualitative and more understandable for our citizens too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who wanted to speak. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. And I would like to propose to the committee to adopt, on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules, the draft Law on Legal Activities, the registration number of Project 5707. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:39:41]] For 290 Decision taken. The law is adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Announcement. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the decision of the deputy faction of the political party "Slut of the People" to exclude from the MP's faction of the political party "Slut of the People" of the Ukrainian national deputy, Dmitruk Artem Gennadiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, let's move on. We have the following bill: this is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the definition of pricing in the construction of public roads (project registration number 2234) (this is second reading). Dear colleagues, I know that I was approached by Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, who has two papers. Is anyone else going to insist on repairs? Then please call the amendment number and then discuss it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u211	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, first of all procedural, not under the transcript. There 109 is going to be a committee amendment for confirmation. And 184 is yours, but it's a bit of a discussion there, so I'll explain why I put it. Now, I'm asking you to cancel the timing and I'm leaving the 109th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u212	Please roll the timing, 109, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u213	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look, this law is kind of schematic, because it's been there since October 7, 2019, it's not really to the committee representative, it's to the committee's authors. For example, what is my interest, and what is the effectiveness of the proposed pricing method in automobiles? What's the difference and what's the positive is that, for example, this is going to define no. One organ and one car? This time. And the second moment is also strange -- the fact is that it's the same when we're giving approval to the cost-of-building rules. So we have to see this in living numbers because, on the one hand, today, a group of influences at the Office of the President cannot share a road fund with each other and then there are similar bills to kind of obliterate the method. If there's a report on the committee and they can bring it in numbers, as it plays out on the effectiveness of the methodology, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u214	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. So you're betting on confirmation, right? And the committee's response? The author of this amendment, please have 109 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u215	Dear colleague, you and I have considered this bill on the committee, you have had every opportunity to get all the answers to your questions. I would also like to remind colleagues that, in its conclusion of 14 May 2021, the General Legal Office reports that this bill is in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine, is in line with other legislative acts of Ukraine and is set out in compliance with the requirements of the legislative technique, and there is no reference to the text of the bill in the General Directorate of Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u216	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, because we are about to vote on the amendment for confirmation. Amendment 109, the authorship of National Deputy Litchman, is supported by National Deputy Koltunović. You've heard the argument of the parties. The committee insists that this amendment be kept under consideration. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:44:03]] For 251 Decision taken. The edit remains counted. Alexander Sergiyovich, are you still insisting on 184 amendments? Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u217	Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'll explain why. Because your amendment is just presented and taken into account, it is linked and responds to my previous thesis on the effectiveness of the proposed methodology. You recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers report in 2022. So this is my question: What is the effectiveness of the proposed methodology in building and repairing automobiles? What are the performance criteria? What plus, I'll repeat, besides competing influence groups inside the President's Office? And then your amendment makes sense when it has the appropriate application base, here's my proposal. I'm going to repeat that I understand that it's not the author, but the committee represents the head of the subcommittee, but I would still like to capture this main concept of the bill because it looks lobbyist, schematic, corrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u218	Thank you. Dear colleagues, another amendment, she feels the need for confirmation. Thus, the committee suggested that it be taken into account, and it insists on taking this amendment into account. So I'm putting to the vote 184 of the amendment that was counted by the committee. Please vote. [[13:45:44]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, no one's going to make any changes anymore, am I right? So, with your permission, I'm voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the definition of pricing in the construction of roadways for general use (project registration 2234). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:46:35]] For 239. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, the next bill, registration number 5219, is a bill on critical infrastructure (second reading). Dear colleagues, who will insist on the amendments? To confirm, we'll end up putting, let's start with who will be. I see Julia Klimenko, please. I know you've made a lot of changes, you've asked for three minutes of speeches instead of your amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u219	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u220	Two minutes? Please give me two minutes, Julia Klimenko, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u221	Klimenko, "Justice." Colleagues, I've submitted 27 rights to this bill to try to change it conceptually. Because, as it's done at the moment, it's unfortunately not going to work. It's very good that we do have and are going to have the Critical Infrastructure Act, but it's very framed, and it's not going to have any consequences, and it's not going to give any authority to those bodies that are going to take care of critical infrastructure. We can look at the numbers of analytical centres that do this in Ukraine and see that 80 percent of the critical infrastructure in Ukraine is currently actually in private hands, in the private sector. Many of these beneficiaries are either, let's say, little known, or have origins and Russian roots. And unfortunately, for many years, over 30 years, the state has done nothing about it. Congratulations, this bill has finally arrived, but I want to focus on the next one. First. This bill actually gives birth and fruit to another body in the structure of the executive branch that will take care of critical infrastructure, we already have the number of officials and the number of organs that have become so fertile, and efficiency and result are only falling away from it. I would like to remind you that we have a U.S.P.P.I. that is responsible for security; we have a B.S.U. and intelligence agency that should be responsible for all of our security. Why do we create another organ and give it a register, where it's going to put it on the incomprehensible criteria of all in a row? So there's a big question as to how it's going to be implemented, this bill, although I understand it's a framework, but as it was written, it's actually not going to work. There's a lot of other comments, and I'm not going to put all my 27 rights on confirmation, but please put 64th, 65th and 66th on confirmation that the PNB.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u222	You mean 64-y, 65-y, 66-y, not for confirmation, right? Dear colleagues, then I make these changes in turn. Amendment of 64 of Klimenko’s People’s Deputies It's considered editorially. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account of his amendment. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:15.]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The amendment remains edited. The next amendment was made by 65 national deputies, Klimenko. It's considered editorially. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:47]] For-154 The decision is not taken. And the 66th Amendment of People's Deputy Klimenko. It is rejected, but the author insists on taking this amendment into account. Please identify and vote. [[13:51:11]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Thank you, Mrs. Julia. Will anyone else insist on taking into account their amendments? On the count of, I'll ask you first. Taking into account, please, Rachmaninov Sergey Ivanovich. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u223	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. 191st. Dear colleagues, I thank the committee and the working group for the large number of rights taken into account. It's not a principle, but it's technologically accurate. I suggest we clarify the concept of critical technological information. This information is meant to be more than mere data that is stored, accepted in certain infrastructure systems, but by those that directly influence their functioning. It's an important amendment, I suggest that the hall is fully accounted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u224	Sergey Ivanovich, remind us again of the number of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u225	191st.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u226	191st. Wait a second. Yes, 191 amendments to the people's Rahmanin. The committee turned her down. At the same time, the author insists on taking account. So please identify and vote. [[13:52:40]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. Yeah, who else is gonna bet? No one else wants to, they'll just bet on confirmation right now. Please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko, start with the amendment number.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u227	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko. I have two amendments that I'm betting on. The first is 105. What are we talking about? I absolutely agree with my colleague Klimenko that we are being created by a new body, the National Commission for the Protection of Critical Infrastructure. As long as we produce these infinite organs, I don't know. But not enough of what we're creating this organ, we're proposing. Regrettably, according to the committee, this commission is required to verify the investments involved in critical infrastructure. There is no order of examination, no authority, no question about the scope. I mean, check what you want. It's a crazy corruption risk, it's bureaucracy. Instead of investing in the state, we don't know what else to come up with to test those crazy investors who risk coming to us. So, guys, let's break this down. I'd like everyone to vote red.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u228	Committee position. Are you going to determine? It's counted, 105 revisions. An explanation. It's counted, isn't it? Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please? Amendment 105 is counted by the committee. At the same time, the national MP, Honcharenko, suggests putting her on the stand. So, dear fellows, once again. 105 revisions. The committee is accounted for. Please vote. [[13:54:46]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. Next amendment, Alexeiovich Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u229	Thank you. My colleagues, thank you very much. Let's get this thing over with. So one more line, this is a 106 line. The amendment foresees that the same National Commission, I repeat, is a bureaucrat body, which unfortunately is being created, which means that it will be empowered to issue orders of a legal nature that will have the power of regulatory acts, which are required for all central executive authorities, local government authorities, military formations and all businesses, institutions and organizations. Friends, this is in general a violation of article 19 and 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, because only laws can determine the legal principles governing the activities of public authorities or the limits of their powers. So I'm asking you, together, let's knock down this 106 and there'll be no misunderstanding commission to issue completely misunderstood orders that will be absolutely binding. Red or yellow, friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u230	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 106 revisions. She's taken into account by the committee, and the committee insists that she stay accounted for. So I'm putting this amendment to confirm and I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[13:56:32]] For 219 The decision is not taken. All of it. We do. Nicolanca, please. And after that, after Nicholas. You're in for confirmation, aren't you? Nicolanca and after that. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u231	Colleagues, Nikolainka, the Fatherland faction. I've got 41 applications for confirmation. What is it? This is a bill that says that without trial and investigation, in principle, it's a good rule that if an object of critical infrastructure belongs to a person associated with a occupying State or a country whose beneficiary is in a country that does not cooperate with FATF, it is necessary to take this critical infrastructure by force. But who's going to prove it? So we are determined that we have these facts in general by the court, and in this case this is the same commission that we just voted on the other two. So the commission under the Cabinet is going to determine whether it is, or not, it's not going to be public and it's going to determine that you have to take this critical infrastructure. That's why it's not very legal, to put it mildly. So I'm asking 41 not to support it, otherwise it's the commission that gives the power of attorney. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u232	41 Amendments to the People’s Deputy Vereshtsuk and others She's a committee member. At the same time, the national MP, Nikolainko, demands that this amendment be made for confirmation. The committee insists that the amendment be maintained. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[13:58:23]] For 237 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. And Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich. And then we go to the vote. Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u233	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland faction. I'm asking you to pay attention to Amendment 70 and I want to explain why I'm asking her to be confirmed. In the first reading, we determined with you that this register of critical objects cannot have general access, that it must have limited access. Instead, the second reading came under the rule that it was an open register. Friends, we're a war country, it's a critical infrastructure. How can an open source teach a state of infrastructure that can become the target of an aggressor at any time? So I strongly ask you to listen to what we are proposing and not to support this amendment, Amendment 70. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Please take the position of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u235	Thank you. Colleagues, if you read literally what's written in this amendment, it says "except limited access information." So the register will also include information with limited access, not a fully open register. Thank you. So be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u236	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 70th Amendment. It's counted by the committee. It's on confirmation. The committee insists on keeping it under consideration. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. [[14:00:26]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've passed the whole bill. So, with your permission, I'm making a proposal to the committee. Well, I was asking you. Please, Nikolainka. What else is the amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u237	Colleagues, 233 straight. Once again, although the 41st, unfortunately, the Council did leave in this bill and allowed without a court decision to take property from private investors, including critical infrastructure. And there's 233 revisions that authorizes Kabmin to check the ownership structure and then form asset lists for alienation. This is not the legal mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to verify ownership structure. These are the other absolute organs. Accordingly, this commission and the Cabinet of Ministers are not authorized under many laws and the Constitution to do so. I'm asking them to act in a legal way, if they are to be created. That's why I'm asking you not to support this, 233. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, it's already the final draft that deals with confirmation. This is the amendment of 233 by National Deputy Vereshtsuk and other colleagues. She's a committee member. The committee insists that it be kept under review. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[14:02:12]] For 236 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the decision on the draft Critical Infrastructure Act. I would like to vote on the proposal of the committee to adopt the draft Critical Infrastructure Act (project registration number 5219) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[2:02:59]] For 268. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Show the factions, please. The next question is the draft Administrative Procedure Act (registration number 3475). I invite you to the rostrum of the Subcommittee on Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer. Please, Larissa Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, yes, one second. So I've got some colleagues here who've filed, what kind of papers they're going to insist on. Is anyone else going to insist on repairs? They will, yes. Then we'll go as one in a row, or you'll give us a list, or you'll be a few minutes with a replacement.? Five minutes, right? Now, one second, then I'll write everybody down. Mrs. Alona, you'll be on duty. Do you need time? Time. How much are you offering? Five minutes. So I'm writing, "Scrumb, five minutes." Next, Cymbaluk, five minutes instead of your right. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've got you, I've got you. You're going to insist on them, aren't you? Okay. Who else will it be? The watermelon and Eutusek. Five more? How much? Two minutes, Lubin. Lubin, two minutes. Eutushka? You'll go straight. Dear colleagues, then let's start with those colleagues who have expressed a desire to speak instead of their amendments, they're withdrawing their amendments. I give the floor to the national MP Daniel Getmantsov two minutes instead of my amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, I ask you to put it up. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm asking you to put one correction into account, it's a very important amendment. What are we talking about? We all support this bill and indeed administrative procedures need to be settled. I want to thank the committee for working on this bill. But it is vital that this bill is not cooled out so that the person who received the decision in his administrative case will know the reasons for the decision. This decision must be motivated. It is not enough for a person simply to know about a reference to a certain standard of law that has given rise to a decision. This is also necessary for further prosecutions, since the person who challenges the court’s decision should be protected from the courts and the court should evaluate the decision, on the basis of its motivation, not re-examine the case, not re-examine the circumstances of the case by replacing the relevant body with an assessment of the decision based on its reasonableness. So I am grateful for the support of the committee. We had additional consultations, and we did not really deny the need to accept the amendment. So I ask my colleagues to support it and actually vote green. Thank you. 436.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u240	Please give the committee a brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u241	The committee rejected the amendment. And we need to keep in mind that we are dealing with local authorities and executive authorities, not courts. They're not judges. I mean, God forbid, at least do what we told them to do. Here is the motivational part, the actual circumstances of the case, the content of documents and information, references to evidence, other materials of the case. So the requirement for a legal assessment of the facts is very good. Mr. Gethmans, that's a fine requirement, but it won't work, because the best is an enemy of the good. And the authorities of local self-government just won't be able to rule it out. Even Supreme Court judges say that the administrative courts do not always prescribe it properly. The editing is very good, but I have doubts that it will be. That this rule of law will be fulfilled. So whatever the hall wants, be sure. You insist, don't you, Danilo Alexanderovich? Dear colleagues, Danilo Aleksandrovitch has removed all his amendments, except for 436, he's got a two-minute speech, so he wants to make 436 adjustments. You've heard the argument of the parties. So please, Your Honor, vote. [[14:08:47]] For 227 Decision taken. The amendment is considered to be taken into account. Next, please, I was asked five minutes of Alona's Scream, then five minutes of Tsymbaluk and two minutes of Lubinets, and then another one of them gave it to me. Please, let's get started. Alona Ivanovna's starch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u242	Thank you, colleagues. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. First of all, colleagues, I welcome all of us with the fact that we have finally come to a second reading of this bill. It's actually about a tenth of an attempt to reach it. The bill was 22 years old, think about preparing, a huge number of working groups. I applaud and take off my hat in front of the patient and the professional and Larissa Bilozer, the reporter. At 22 years of age, however, the Ukrainians still do not understand what this bill is about. So I'd like to stop at both the pluses and the minuses, and what this bill means to ordinary people. If you remember, three years ago, almost Zelenski was in office and elected, he promised us a country, not stress, but a country of service and a country of service. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and this bill is trying to bring us a little bit closer from the country to total stress for citizens, for the FOPs, for business, for anyone, to the country of service, to the country of service. He's trying to normalize the relationship between the bureaucratic apparatus, every official, the civil servant, anyone in the public sphere who provides you with social services, the pension services that carry out inspections, the checks that allocate the land that sets the areas under construction. All those who refer to any state sphere, he regulates their relations with ordinary citizens. Today, these relationships are regulated in different ways. If you, for example, want your pension recalculated and you don't understand why you don't get the pension you need, you're going to be beating the thresholds of the Pension Fund and its employees for a long time, you're going to get refusals, you're going to get papers, but you can never know the reason. And only you will have to go to court, and we know how the courts work in Ukraine. In retirement, that's one question. In social, other matters, it's a very different procedure. In the area of construction, construction, land allocation is another procedure. Environmental legislation is another procedure. So this bill is trying to bring all relations between the state and the citizen, the bureaucratic apparatus, the public officials and the citizen in one bill. That's why he's been preparing for so long, and that's why he's so uncomplicated and it's going to be hard to do. He actually says one thing: No decisions about a citizen, no citizen, no decisions about you without you. At least you'll know what decision the state authorities make about you, about your request, about your land, about your pension, about your social benefits, about your subsidies, about your insurance. You'll also finally get access to the material of the case in any body, at least hopefully it will, you'll be able to challenge that decision and you'll be able to demand explanations from the public authorities. And that, no doubt, is a good thing. Because today there is a wall of paperwork, a wall of bureaucratic procedures, a wall of incomprehensible internal instructions, of official duties, of chaos of thousands of explanations why they cannot help you, not of trying to really help you. And now I'm going to say a little bit of my own paper, why I don't think this bill will be able to help you in full sense, and it won't work until there's a full reform of government in the country. Because, unfortunately, the functions of the Cabinet of Ministers and of the central executive branch are still not defined normally. The Law on Changes to the Cabinet of Ministers and Central Authorities has not been adopted, the changes to the public service have not been or are not accepted, and competitions for public service and public office are not independent profile competitions. Sadly, the public ministry does not come because they are the best professionals, but because they are politically loyal. And as long as that doesn't change, I don't think this law will help us to regulate normal government in the country. We have great disappointment today with all the state procedures that we have been promised to do, in fact, the service in the local authorities, and the service in the state today is not professional, and this certainly needs to be corrected. This bill is a good first step, it has been expected for a long time, it has been worked on by a vast number of people and public associations, and by professionals, both government, and subcommittee, and committee, and many other experts. But this bill won't help unless SIGMA, a professional organization, notes, we get zero estimates for, for example, government policy predictability for business, government policy planning, when business doesn't understand how they're planning and what will change for them in 5600 tomorrow or what will not change. And when we have justice and a reward race, we also get one out of five. So, friends, reform of government should be a priority, we have to go back to it, and this law takes a small step.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u243	Thank you. The word is given: 5 minutes Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk instead of all his amendments. Two minutes later, Lubinets. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u244	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. I believe that the authors of this bill wanted to improve the administration of local authorities, local self-government, and bring the citizen closer. But what really came out of it? As we analyzed the draft of this law, we came to the conclusion that it violates several articles of the Constitution: the 8th, the 19th, the 22nd, the 41st, the 59th, the 75th, the 124th. It is also contrary to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It is not in line with other legislative provisions that are not amended by the project. Since the principle of the rule of law, the legal definition, is violated, this is article 8 of the Constitution, the standards are appraised, and their application remains, attention, to a person’s judgment. In particular, article 24 of the project foresees an increase in the time frame for decisions on return, and the identification of another authorized official. Or a refusal to answer with an appropriate explanation if there are valid reasons. A fundamental change in the administrative procedure of executive authorities and local authorities is proposed. There are additional bureaucratic barriers, we believe, to human relations with the State. Yes, in order to establish an authority competently to decide the case, a person should refer to a court of law. At the same time, article 124 of the Constitution defines the primary function and exclusive competence of the courts as the exercise of justice rather than the establishment of a competent authority to decide the case. There is no procedural position to ensure that this right is exercised by a citizen. The right to personal participation in administrative conduct is restricted, and article 22 of the Constitution is violated. In particular, article 59 of the draft stipulates that in a case involving a large number of persons of equal interest, the administrative authority may request such persons to be appointed as a joint representative. If such a requirement is not met during the period established by the administrative body, then Article 8 on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Constitution states that national legislation should provide guarantees to prevent any use of personal data. Dear colleagues, if we're talking about standards that are incompatible with the laws in force, we have to say that some of the positions of this project are declarant and incomplete implementation mechanisms. Articles 8, 19 of the Constitution are also being violated. The person's right to legal aid is limited to 59th and 131rd articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. This does not take into account the position of the Constitutional Court: the decision of September 30, 2009 provides for members of the administration to have remote access in real-time to all the material of the case, which, first, does not take into account the provision of 32 articles of the Constitution, which no one can interfere with, to intervene in his personal (family) life except in the cases provided for in the Constitution. Moreover, such a situation is not in line with other project standards, which provide that documents containing personal data, commercial or professional secrets can be made available only in terms of the extent to which they are objectively needed to deal with administrative matters or to protect the rights of their participants. I note that the European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly stated in its rulings that the protection of personal data is essential to the exercise by a person of his or her right to respect private and family life. Unfortunately, the project does not contain completed mechanisms for administrative regulation. On the contrary, he's tasking this bill to the Cabinet of Ministers to develop appropriate regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u245	Thank you. Next, I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u246	Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich, thank you to the committee for considering my amendments. I made 44 amendments to this bill, only seven of them. Many surprises are the reason why I do not think that positive adjustments have been taken into account. But again, I'm not going to stop at the repairs right now, there's too much to waste time. I realize that, unfortunately, none of them will get most of them. But nevertheless, I would like to say about those remarks that are uncorrected to the second reading. For example, the first. Much of the terminology and procedures are borrowed from procedural legislation that artificially brings the process of providing administrative services with justice. The other one. It calls for a note of the introduction in the administrative procedure of the institution of a witness without a sufficient settlement of the related aspects. Third. For example, the bill provides that, if it is necessary to obtain consent or the conclusion of another administrative body to resolve a case, the administrative authority shall refer to such an authority with sufficient time limits. That is, it seems not entirely reasonable to give the administrative authority the right to give instructions to another body, including because it is not in its purview. So there's a lot of comments, and there's probably a lot to vote for this bill in the second reading, because there's still a lot to settle this issue -- the question of administrative matters. But the observations are very much and, unfortunately, I think that after a while we will be making changes to this law if it becomes law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u247	Thank you. Please, I'll give the People's Deputies a minute instead of the 416 to 446 amendments that are there. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Actually, first of all, I want to thank the drafters, Mrs. Larissa Bilozer himself. Because it's actually, well, a great deal of work that you've done, but there are still a number of comments to this bill, without which, in fact, I don't understand how we're going to accept it. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the inadmissibility of the oral administrative acts available. What are we talking about? First of all, the bill stipulates that there is to be a need for the conduct and materials of the case. At the same time, however, there is an oral administrative act that will not be dealt with in the material. If that happens, this official will be released, and about this, the oral administrative service will be known solely by the official and the person, if he is released, will not really be able to understand whether this act was or was not there. How and who will really be responsible for the execution or failure of such an act? I think that before these very oral administrative acts, we are now at this stage where we are now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u249	Thank you. Then you asked for another 2 minutes instead of the 447-to-572 amendments. Please, Mrs. Auntie.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u250	I would also like to point out that the bill provides for very broad possibilities to recall or invalidate an administrative act in favour of one person who, for example, did harm to others. What are we talking about? The point is that an administrative body can cancel its own decision, such as its decision regarding your land or property on it. I mean, no trial, no investigation. This is now taking place in court, now the authorities of the local authorities or local self - government, or public authorities, in order to challenge your right to property, must appeal to the court. The bill provides that only an administrative body will be able to do so. I think that's actually not the justice we're going to go to, and that's not the state we're building. That's why I'm here today. It's still very important in fact: language is that an act that can be repealed if it goes against the principles of administrative procedure. I want to remind you which one of the principles of administrative procedure is to govern common sense, logic and universal morality. That is, if an official believes that your actions are immoral, he will be able to call off his decision. I think that's definitely not what we want. And this is definitely not the story that refers to the relief and improvement of people's lives and the provision of quality administrative services. Let's not increase our official functions and their powers, but really give people authority and preserve their right to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u251	Thank you. And one more minute in 599, Mrs. Tetyano. After 599 you also asked for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u252	One minute, yeah. I would like to point out that the bill provides for the possibility of reviewing administrative acts under the new circumstances over five years. In fact, I think it's a very big deadline, because for five years your business or your business may try to cancel, close precisely because of the cancellation or recognition of a real or invalid administrative procedure. I understand that there are good intentions in this norm, but in fact, unfortunately, it can be used by both officials and opponents for completely different purposes. So I'm absolutely sure that my 599 amendment needs to be voted on and accepted so that it doesn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u253	Thank you. And your final one minute of 674 corrections, and we're done. Yeah? Please, Mrs. Auntie.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u254	Thank you. Actually, I'd like an answer here. Maybe it is and maybe it's not what I think it is, and I want to ask you about doing things at the expense of the person in debt. The bill empowers third parties to delegate the execution of administrative acts that are not carried out for different reasons. And it's not about government contractors or any other people involved. The bill provides absolutely for an unfulfilled mechanism of action as to which third parties may be involved and the procedure for involving these third parties is not defined. So I don't think there's any way that we can allow this kind of absolutely free treatment in the future of this rule in this bill. If possible, explain exactly this to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u255	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u256	Dear Tetiano Mikhailno, on behalf of the debtor, there is no delegation of authority here, it remains the responsibility of the authority, it is only a material and technical component. For example, you have to dismantle the IAF or take a crane somewhere, the car is how it works today. So it's important that when you take measures of influence in a person there's a possibility that you can do it voluntarily, there's always an early warning, and there's a possibility that you can sue for this kind of influence. So it's very important. That's why we agreed, our committee has decided to reject your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u257	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we still have eight amendments to the National MP, Mikli Knieżicky. And that's what I understand. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please, we have very little time. Let's make sure we can vote on the law as a whole, I think this is going to be a more important performance today. If you don't mind, Mrs. Auntie. Would you like to vote on the latter? Last one, huh? 599th of these you want to vote on, right? Okay. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the amendment of 599 of the People's Deputy Placzkowa. The committee proposes to reject this amendment. Therefore, I ask the national deputies to identify and vote. [[14:28:35]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Thank you, Mrs. Tetian, for your understanding and for your position. And we're going to the final author, Mr. Mikola Knieżicki. Please give me 2 minutes of amendment 638, 642 to justify. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u258	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is really not bad, but chapter 92100 actually puts a cross on this bill, because it actually foresees that a state or local authority can not only make decisions but also force it to be implemented in a non-judicial way, even if these decisions are illegal. And that's certainly absurd. This is exactly what my corrections are about. Amendments 638, 642 propose to be excluded from the proposed committee for the second reading of the regulation on enforcement of the decision and to establish that the decision may be taken in accordance with the Act on Enforcement. The bill proposes a procedure for enforcement of administrative decisions, but it changes its terminology to "west of influence". But it's not really about the impact on the execution of an administrative decision. The law on executive conduct. The creation of another procedure, which is much simpler than in the Act on Performing Conduct, is wrong and is able to create additional disputes about how to execute an act. In addition, professional legislation contains special measures for failure to implement decisions. They're called fines, not monetary withdrawals, as proposed in article 96 of the bill, to avoid the use of the word "traf". The direct influence is not at all exposed and it is not clear what it is. Can the police send a specnaz to a person who does not pay a fine for violating parking rules in the context of direct influence? Forced enforcement is regulated by the Law on Executive Conduct. A professional law, which contains a number of rules to prevent State abuses, defines rights and obligations, introduces competition and the need to follow procedure. We cannot set up a parallel procedure in this law for executive conduct. What's more, if there's no procedural norm and no guarantee of protection. I'm proposing these two revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u259	I'll put them to the vote. I'll bet you an amendment to 638 by the People's Deputy of Knieżick. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:31:18]] For-89 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is the 642 People's Deputy of Knieżicky. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:31:40]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 656. Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u260	Thank you. Since we are opposed to a discriminatory enforcement procedure, we believe that article 94, which defines enforcement authorities, should be included in the law. The enforcement authorities are fully defined by Article 5 of the Law on Enforcement. We cannot extend this list to another law. Similarly, we cannot assign a body that has made a decision, authority, and authority to carry it out. How will he make a decision against himself, for example? In fact, this law gives the officer the opportunity to choose for himself what procedure his decision will be taken against the taxpayer -- the procedure established by the Law on Enforcement, which contains many balances and interests of the participants in the conduct and protection of the state insolvent, or the Law on Administrative Procedure, which does not contain any insurers, or can be treated as anything. I'd like an update. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u261	Thank you. I'm putting 656 amendments to the House of Commons to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[2:33:07]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 671. Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u262	The amendment provides for an exemption from the law of article 95, which makes it possible to perform the act at the expense of the debtor. In fact, it is that an official essentially replaces a court, a court that is now the only body authorized to decide the issue and to oblige a person to act in a manner established by law. The bill proposes to destroy the judicial authority and actually turn it into the authority of an official. To avoid that, please support Amendment 671. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u263	I bet on the vote of 671 the amendment of the People's Deputy of the Prince. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[2:34:05]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 689. People's Deputy Princely, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u264	The amendment proposes to exclude from the law the system of fines for failure to comply with the decisions of the administrative authority. Today, there is a clear and transparent procedure. If a public authority feels that a person does not properly comply with his decision, he goes to court to decide the issue and obliges the individual to comply. The bill proposes to establish a non-conviction procedure for the implementation of decisions. And if a person fails to make a decision, he is subject to considerable fines. Even if this decision is openly illegal, a person must enforce it in order not to get fined. And in the event that the fine is not paid, the bill proposes, in a non-convictional manner, simply to pass its rulings to the executive service and without trial, to arrest the accounts, to describe the property, and to collect a fine, fine for the execution of totally illegal decisions. You can't let that happen. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u265	I would like to vote on amendment 689 of the People's Deputy of the Prince. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:35:26]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 713. Princess, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u266	The bill suggests that direct influence be applied, but it does not explain what direct influence is. Can the National Police send a specnaz to a person who does not pay a fine for violating parking rules in the context of direct influence? Is it possible to include a person in the list of terrorists for fasting fasting posts that are distasteful? Can the President dissolve the Supreme Council as part of direct influence measures, because not all parliament is ready to follow instructions from the Bank? The answers to all the questions about this law are yes, perhaps because the law does not contain clarity, and therefore allows for extremely broad powers for any government body. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u267	I bet on the vote of 713 the amendment of the People's Deputy of the Prince. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:36:38]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 728 of the People's Deputy of Knieżicky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u268	The bill suggests that a person should be warned about the application of measures of influence. That is, a public authority can make an outright illegal decision and warn a person that if he fails to do so, his property will be arrested and taken to prison as part of direct influence measures. Obviously, this rule, as part of the enforcement procedure, should be removed from the bill, which I'm asking you in the direction of 728. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u269	728 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Knieżicky. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:37:34]] For-76 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment of the House of Commons MP 752, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u270	Thank you. I'm surprised, of course, that MPs who consider themselves to be Democrats vote for such norms, and then they'll be ashamed of it. This amendment suggests at least some visibility of the enforcement procedure. If a person who is obliged to apply the measure of influence opposes it, it may be subject to compulsory measures in accordance with the law, within and in accordance with the law. What's "resistes"? If a person fails to pay a utility bill on time, does he resist the decision or the imposition of fines? Is this about the military opposition to which the law enforcement authorities mentioned in article 99 should be involved? I propose to support my amendment 759 and delete this article. 752 - delete this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u271	Thank you. Correct. This is the 752 amendment of the People's Deputy of Knieżicky. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:38:50]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've been through all the adjustments, right, no one's going to insist on their amendments? Therefore, I invite the national deputies to take their seats. We're moving on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt the draft Administrative Procedure Act (project registration number 3475) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:39:49]] For 291 Decision taken. The law is passed in general, colleagues. Congratulations, colleagues, it's a really great way we've come to adopt this bill. Let's move on. Mrs. Larissa, especially welcome. Dear colleagues, the following bills 5436, 5436-1, 5436-2, 5436-d are the first reading of the draft Act amending Ukraine's laws on energy storage. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss these bills? Yes. Then let's vote on this issue by a reduced procedure, we need to get 150 votes. Please vote, Your Honor. [[14:40:48]] For 242 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of Ukrainian National Deputy Kucherenka Alexi Yuriovich, author of Bill 5436. Please. You'll be out of town? Please turn it on then.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u272	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I'll be quick. I won't take long. On the one hand, I'm glad that my colleagues and I have registered a very important bill on energy storage. On the other hand, because the Energy and Utilities Committee has reached consensus practically, and we've all supported the relevant bill with the letter "d," I'm not going to insist on reviewing my bill. But the only thing I'd like to say is and point out a few points of principle. This is a very important bill because we all realize that in 2015 - 2016, our predecessors were slightly, in a mild sense, heating up and the correspondingly uncontrollable growth of the so - called green generation has had a very powerful impact on both the energy system’s technology and the financial state of the energy industry. And here's the main question, dear friends of most, venerable monocoalists, such laws as this, would have to be adopted in your first month of work in September 2019, and then there would have been no such crisis. Instead, you are wise to adopt the Bill of Import of Belarusian-Russian Electricity and other laws that have led to today's huge energy crisis. So, dear friends, let us correct mistakes, acknowledge these mistakes, and adopt laws that will save today’s energy from a huge crisis. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u273	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. I invite you to the floor of the Ukrainian national deputy Andrija Mikhailovich Herus. Please, Andrew Mikhailovich. Turn it on from there, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u274	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to take it off the table, if that's what I can do, my bill so that we can all support Bill "d" is finalized. I want to draw attention to the importance of this bill, because it's a really, literally up-to-date example. Tonight there were restrictions on green energy, namely from wind power stations, because there was a strong wind and it was limited, but we paid for it. At the same time, we have gas stations, coal power plants to cover electricity demand again this morning. It is critical that we start to apply and build an energy reservoir in Ukraine. Because this will allow for the accumulation and issuance of electricity in peak periods, mornings and evenings. That's why I'm asking us to vote. And if it's possible for us to put it on the ground today, maybe take it as a whole, and if it isn't, let's cut the time limits for the right to seven days. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u275	Thank you. I would like to invite a member of the Committee on Energy and Housing of Yuri Alexanderovich Kamelchuk. Please, both from the authors and from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u276	Good afternoon. If it's possible then three minutes, I think I'll fit in with the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u277	Please give me four minutes and you'll fit in. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u278	Thank you. Yuri Kamelchuk, "Slut of the People" faction, Lvivščina, Czervonograd region. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! Today is no exaggeration of the historic day for Ukraine's energy. Because saving energy is what's life-saving for everyone and for every country. I think you all know that I have a charger in my hands. But imagine that similar devices, but in thousands, tens of times larger, they can provide energy for individual buildings and even whole microregions. Energy can come from both classical and renewable sources of energy. Individual businesses and private buildings will be able to become part of Ukraine’s energy system and remove the problem at peak times for themselves and other consumers. The basis for the development of this draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Energy Market is the Energy Strategy of Ukraine for the period up to 2035, according to which the promotion of renewable energy development, the development of energy storage equipment is the main priority of state energy policy. Today, renewable energy objects generate between 8 percent and 13 percent of total electricity production. The intensive development of renewable energy in parallel with the positive environmental impact creates risks of disrupting the energy system’s balance sheet. To ensure that alternative energy particles continue to grow further, there is a need to increase the amount of primary, secondary regulation and replacement. Renewable energy objects are characterized by an unguaranteed, or variable, electricity generation schedule over time, as well as by significant seasonal fluctuations in production volumes. In a coordinated operation, electrical accumulating systems will contribute to the stable functioning of the energy system, to reducing the imbalances in the network caused by uneven consumer loads, and to maintaining the pace of the introduction of renewable energy objects. Today, there is no legislative framework in Ukraine that regulates the establishment and operation of electroaccumulation systems. The lack of legislatively defined status of electricity storage systems as a market participant does not allow this technology to be used today in the balancing market and in the auxiliary services market. In developing the project, friends have taken into account the provisions of the EU Directive on common rules for the internal electricity market 2019/944, which define such a system of energy storage, the specificities of the storage systems, the characteristics of the interaction with transmission system operators and distribution system operators and the basic principles of legal regulation of storage systems in EU countries. Bill 5436-d has come a long way in the development of the Energy Committee working group with the participation of a large number of state and private steakholders. He also got the conclusion of the Energy Community and went through independent legal expertise and was assisted by a committee. Dear colleagues, please support Bill 5436-d on energy storage systems in the first reading and shorten the deadlines for passing the bill twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u279	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please. The word is given to National Deputy Vátarović Volodymyr Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u280	Please give the floor to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u281	Please, Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u282	Dear colleagues! Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, European Solidarity, Lviv. I am also coauthor of this law and the previous one, where Alexy Kucherenko has just reported. Thank you to the committee for drafting the joint bill. And "European Solidarity" will support it, that's for sure. But here's the question. Couplings. What kind of energy will we fill tomorrow: Belarusian, Russian? From which coal, Russian, or electricity will we produce and fill these reservoirs? The question is very important because, as the committee head has pointed out, there are peaks where one generation produces too much electricity, it has to be stored somewhere. So in favour of this bill, I want to go to the Cabinet of Ministers to allocate funds for the coal generation, so that the coal of its own production will be burned at TEC, TES, and it's actually produced electricity. To invest in the development of areas where coal companies are located, to give jobs to our native miners, not to buy coal products abroad. We need to do everything we can to ensure that domestic energy, domestic generating companies develop and that we don't have to be dependent, including on the aggressor country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u283	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sowsun Inni Romanovni, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u284	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, this bill has truly received unprecedented support from the Energy Committee of Profiles. It rarely happens on the committee, but it happened to this bill. Why? Obviously, there's a general understanding that we need to move towards green energy development. The European Union has an ambitious goal that 40 percent of the generation should come from renewable energy sources. Ukraine likewise set certain goals in this direction. We're talking about going to 30 percent of the restored sources over the next 20 years. Obviously, this requires improving the investment climate, attracting investments both internally and externally to develop renewable energy sources. But the same is true of the technical problems that arise from renewable energy. The need to balance the energy of wind and sun, because we understand that wind and sun are not the sources of energy that can work 24 hours a day, that can be turned on or off when necessary. That's exactly what a bill that deals with the accumulation of power in the Ukrainian energy system is needed. But what we are adopting today is a step forward. The fact that we're moving towards the green future is also the right thing to do. But at the same time, in working on this, we should not forget the situation that has taken place today in Ukraine’s energy market. Despite the authorities' assurance that everything will be fine, that there will be no spill-overs, unfortunately, we see that the situation in Ukrainian energy remains extremely complex. We see coal reserves shrink rapidly. And it's very strange to hear from the authorities that this is a realization on the Ukrainian side of the Green Course. Green is the right thing to do, Voice is the right thing to do. But the Green Course is about strategic action and planning that will actually ensure the interests of Ukrainian citizens today and in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u285	The word is now, first of all, the Zagradni Yuri Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u286	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u287	Please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u288	Thank you, Your Honor, Yuri Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to both the previous speakers and others that you do not confuse green energy and lobbying energy from financial and industrial groups. Those who doubt, compare the tariff to green energy in Ukraine and, for example, in Germany. So in Germany, it turns out that the green energy tariff is twice as low, or more precisely, as much smaller than in Ukraine. This time. One second. And remember, what does this result in in energy manipulation? Before we were canceled for 90 kips, we were raised to 68, then we tried to lower it, but that's still the reason for the lift. Another point is about the cost of utilities. We all hear that our tariffs don't change, and the State publishes data that, for example, we had 4.8 billion dollars in housing and utility bills in September of this year, which is later, plus 2 years, it's already 11 billion dollars. That's how we don't change tariff policy. With regard to the extension of the green tax on electricity, it is also one of the elements of lobbyism of financial and industrial groups, which also have a bearing on laws such as this. As far as the reservoirs are concerned, they're not just for green energy, but for other species, and that's going to lead to speculation on the market in general and in a balanced market, and electricity in general. Our offer. Members of our faction, members of the committee, have proposed to introduce excise duty on green energy, and those who take appropriate measures to install stockpiles will be freed from this excise on an appropriate amount. It's an effective economic tool that's about to influence and stimulate the introduction of appropriate reservoirs. This question is not being resolved at this time, so we will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u289	Thank you. Please, Kucherenko Yuri Alexiyovich. Alexi Yuriovich, I'm sorry. And then there's the Bacon. And we're going to go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u290	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, "Fatherland" will support this bill, as I said, but I want to pay attention to both the deputies and the whole society to the risks of how we can kill nails with a microscope. These reservoirs can be an important element of the so - called electricity market. Great. I pay attention to you, the honorable "ministers of the people," this market just as many years as we've been with you and you've been running the country for 2 years and 4 months. Over the past two years, it's completely your experiment, it's a huge storm, it's already in debt for 75 billion dollars, it's where everyone owes each other. He became, the so-called energy plant, a model of manual control, both by certain individuals on our committee and by the National Energy Regulatory Commission. The very manual regulation of this so - called independent commission caused the crisis. And I'm sorry, with all due respect to the President of Ukraine, when he accuses the opposition, the professional experts of panicking, but no, friends, the coal crisis caused by manual regulation, is caused by two years of war on energy and will pay the consumer for this war. And the last. My friends, yesterday was such an interesting event: The president announced that the authorities had finally secured the supply of seven coal boats from the United States. Friends, I need to tell you the news -- this is a private company that's big enough to pull this coal. This time. And the second is that these seven boats are only enough for 12 days of work. So don't relax.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u291	Please, Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u292	Dear Mr. Head, Paul Bakunets, Majority Group "Trust", Lvivishte. Of course, the bill introduces expanded powers of electricity storage system operators. From now on, they can. Not only is the term "accumulation of electricity" introduced, but they can also import and export electricity. We're going to support this bill on the basis of redrafting the second reading. Today, our esteemed colleagues, speaking to you, to these teachers from Lviv, who are present in our hall for which you work, we call once again to Kabmin to pay attention to our tariffs, especially for these households, who burn their homes in the heat of the day, without gas, with electricity. In order to set a tax rate for them, it reduces the price of electricity, or at least the price of the night. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u293	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in order to be able to complete this issue, I continue our consideration until the end of this issue. I'm going on because it's been 15 hours soon, I'm using the chairman's rights. Have we all raised that question? Please, Ana Speedboat. And we move on to the vote on this issue. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u294	Dear colleagues, the parliamentary group "For the Future" will support this bill in the first reading. In general, the question that was to be raised a few years ago was blocked on the committee. I even applied when I was looking at the Green Generation Bill. But it wasn't supported at the time. So the bill is very correct, very necessary for Ukrainians not to pay for anything. Because when we have energy storage systems for the green generation, it's a crucial issue for us to regulate this segment of electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u295	Thank you. Dear colleagues, they're all here. People's deputies please prepare to make a decision. There's an offer. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on the issue of energy storage (Law 5436-D). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[15:01:12]] For 295 Nine hundred. 295, I'm sorry. Nestor Ivanovich, were your colleagues, asked. Wait a second. There's a committee proposal to cut it by half, so I'm putting it in. In line with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments and to prepare for the second reading of the bill, registration number 5436-d, is a draft law amending the laws of Ukraine on the issue of the introduction of energy storage. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[15:02:05]] For 242 Decision taken. And Alexander Sergiyovich. Announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u296	Pursuant to article 60, prime. 1 I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth interfractional parliamentary association "Smart Policy". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zdumkov Dmitr Aleksandrovitch, was elected head of this association. At the same time, I report that Kabachenko Viktor Volodymyrovich withdrew his signature from the list of national deputies who showed a desire to join the IFO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-16-m0.u297	Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock.
