ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials! Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. I remind you how registration takes place: it happens by pressing the green button, the first button on the left. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can either way. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:02:23]] There are 135 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, we have two of our colleagues' birthdays: Darja Artemovna Volodyna and Nikita Marina Victorian. [[Applause]] Congratulations! From myself and from my colleagues I desire the best of all things! Dear colleagues, according to a decision made at the Conciliation Council by all the MPs and groups, we will today have the next order of business for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Since there were three consecutive meetings, it was decided that on Friday the order would be as follows: "the hour of questions to the government" -- from 10 to 11 -- then 30 minutes to announce the parliamentary requests. Then we move on to work on committees, which we do. And one moment: there will be nine questions, if I'm not mistaken, to send to the President. This is taken into account as a vote in a plenary session. Therefore, I ask everyone to remain until this time. Dear colleagues, today we have officials from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Good afternoon, once again, dear colleagues. As always, according to article 229 of the Supreme Council regulation at 10 a.m. on Friday we have an hour of questions to the government. Today the subject is about the results of the quarantine measures introduced by the Ukrainian Government in 2021 and the state of implementation of the vaccination plan for the population of Ukraine against COPID-19. The Rules of Procedure, as always, remain: up to 20 minutes of the Minister’s report, then one question from each deputy faction and group and 20 minutes of questions from other officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. U.S. Health Minister Maxim Volodymyrovich Stepanov is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u2	Good afternoon, noble Ukrainian people. Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. In this room, I'll report on the Ministry's work for the third time in a month. During this period, the Ministry of Health has been able to achieve a series of strategic victories through an adaptable quarantine that has been widely and unappealably criticized. We have managed to stabilize the disease on the coronavirus throughout the country. We've avoided the national lokdown the next time, and we've kept a balance between the economy and the quarantine constraints. Two of the three areas where the situation was the most difficult, and this is Zakarpatska, the region of Ivano-Frankiv, which has already been removed from the "red" level of epidenvoice. The Black woman is preparing for a reduction in quarantine restrictions. Other areas show a stable situation and a steady trend towards lowering the level of hospitalization. However, the situation remains tense in the Kyiv region, Lviv, Odessa, Hmelnicki, and Kiev. There's such a good and simple word as "order," it ensures the systemicity of the decisions taken and the continuity of their implementation. It is in this context that the Ministry of Health’s initiatives to deal with the effects of the Coronavirus pandemic should be taken. One of the powerful examples of this systemic approach is an adaptive quarantine. The flexible quarantine system we created over the year proved to be effective. At the beginning of the third wave of the pandemic, we strengthened this instrument by allowing the local authorities, without waiting for instructions from above, to make decisions about increasing quarantine limits, resulting from the epidemiation of each particular city. I am grateful to the local authorities, the mayors, the head of the united territorial communities for the order and willingness to use this tool and to share with the Ministry of Health the responsibility for the situation in the country. Often, though, instead of pursuing order, we face emotional politics and outright manipulative statements. I have repeatedly stated from this rostrum and on numerous airs: The world pandemic of the Coronavirus cannot be solely the prerogative of the Ministry of Health. This is a complex problem that can be solved by accepting complex, difficult, but somewhat unpleasant, but systemic measures, which are responsible for all of us, including me, because I am responsible not only for the office but also for the oath of Hippocrates and for my inner convictions. I firmly believe that the times of "partisan expertise" and the chaotic movement forward, on emotion, without purpose, must go back in time. COVID can only win a system job, and we'll be the whole country, together. Under the adverse conditions of the world pandemic created during the years of independence of the medical system, with the beggarly wages of doctors and scientists and under the pressure of some anarchist politicians, I would like to remind you that for many in this country, Russian aggression had to take place in order to understand the correct truth that an army of its own needed to feed, finance and respect. Sadly, this truth cost the state too much — thousands of miles of territory and tens of thousands of lives. Now the same politicians needed a world pandemic to understand the true state of the medical system. Yes, a year ago, the Ukrainian medical system was not even a "coloss on the feet of clay" but a complete "pompeii's death". Let's look the truth in the eye before we pour out the press about the failures. The banal masks were a real deficit, the speculative price came up to 40-50 bracelets per item, today they're sold freely in two-three bracelet pharmacies. Catastrophely enough antiseptics were needed, and doctors who were sent to the waterfront could only dream of protective suits. A year ago, our hospitals had three and a half thousand oxygen beds, now it's 67,000. We have seven and a half times more beds of oxygen in the country today than we had at the beginning of the pandemic. The number of artificial lung ventilation devices has doubled in one year. Can we call the failure of the COVID 135 thousand tests conducted by our laboratory centers of every age? A year ago, the entire medical system was able to produce 200 PDRs per day, today it's 80,000. These are not just numbers of dry statistics, followed by thousands of saved human lives of Ukrainians who have returned to their families thanks to the dedicated work of our doctors and nurses. Unappealingly declare "university" is much easier than acknowledging the merit of these people in the fight against the pandemic. There's no cure for COVID manipulation. I'm not going to criticize the sad predecessors, it's better for the Ukrainians themselves, the patients, the doctors and the nurses, who face the reality of Ukrainian medicine every day, not on paper, but in real life. Lack of quality medical equipment, outdated medical records, low wages for doctors and health - care professionals were, until recently, even a sad reality. Yeah, we don't do everything, but that doesn't make us give up, we keep fighting, because it's a struggle for the lives of Ukrainians, for each individual's life. You could blame Stepanov for everything, but if you say "a," you should say "b." The absence of a full medical budget is the "secret of Polyschinel", which is known to all. When I stressed, I said that there was not enough money, that I was obviously unwary, or even unwilling to listen, so simple. In the meantime, the truth must be sounded even when it is truly bitter. I'll give you a few budget parameters that we've asked for for this year's budget. To fulfill our obligations to the Ukrainian people, we asked 296.6 billion dollars, totaling 159.2 billion. All that was needed for the purchase of vaccines was to put 15 billion dollars into the budget, and the ministry got 3.9 billion, which was able to squander from the general and special fund. Each line of our budget is the life and health of Ukrainians. Cutting a few million into emergency medicine means putting the parents affected before the patient could be rescued, the brigade lacked gas to reach the challenge, there was no oxygen, or there was a defibrillator broken. Even under the conditions of chronic underfunding, we have increased the "extreme" budget almost twice, up to 235 bracelets per patient from the service area. Although the real need is about 400 bucks. Almost half as much as the actual need has been received by the ministry to help patients with COVID-19. The cost of being prepared to respond to infectious diseases and epidemics, as the whale has cried, is only 764 million dollars. And this is during the period of the world pandemic. In the information space, the country's main medical theme has been the coronavirus for several months. All other diseases went to the other side. And in the meantime, COVID-19 didn't announce breaks with other diseases, they're barely noticed, but for the Ministry they exist and require a solution. Every year up to 5,000 Ukrainians require transplants of donor organs, many of them distrusting abroad for medical care, and others live in awe. And this is a miracle that we've created: we've prepared the necessary legal framework, we've got 38 home hospitals transplanted, we've increased the financing of the industry to 502 million dollars, and we've planned at least 250 surgeries from organ transplants and 480 from bone marrow transplants. For someone, they're just numbers, and for me, our surgeons and scientists, they're very specific people: someone's parents, kids, grandchildren. Every surgery for a surgeon, a transplantist, goes into memory for life, and patients become real friends. In a few years, we're planning to enter our country's completely transplanted independence. We need to save people's lives, not abroad, but with the hands of our own specialists, to raise a new caste of transplant doctors. We continue this, as they say, not thanks, but contradictions. The updated Program of Medical Guarantees, which began on April 1, this year, did not trigger a violent reaction. A key focus of the program was the maximization of medical care to patients and the increase in medical expenses. There has been a significant increase in funding for cardiovascular disease treatment. If, on April 1, 2020, 19 thousand,332 dollars were spent on stroke treatment regardless of the condition and severity, from April 1, 2021, this aid amounted to 97,000 dollars. There has been a significant increase in the payment of cancer treatment. This year, a new tariff was introduced for oncohematology, where the amount of 54,000 dollars was recorded, and when it comes to treating a child, the amount goes up to 162 thousand dollars. We were able to get these numbers without looking at a much lower actual level of funding than expected. To provide effective assistance to the victims of COVID and its consequences, the Ministry of Health working group, with the participation of experts, representatives of the National Academy of Medical Sciences, Medical Universities, and Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine, has worked out appropriate recommendations for the management of patients with coronary disease, taking into account WHO recommendations and international organizations of rehabilitation professionals. The problem of postwater syndrome is now very acute. The MOH works in a colossal way outside the codified information field. However, we need to make a simple point: the left hand side of criticism of our activities focuses exclusively on COVID and the vaccination campaign. Initially, the absence of a plan was criticized, and it was discovered that the Ministry of Health had presented a comprehensive, active, detailed, phased plan in December of last year. Anyone who has any basic skills of project management will realize that without a detailed plan of implementation of logistics, any number of vaccines will be wasted and unsuspected. The quality of delivered AstraZeneca or Covishield was then criticized, which has been used worldwide for millions of doses. Some national politicians who declared the pro - European course called counterfeiting, a generalist, a scoundrel, or even a piece of shit. Less criticism was given to Sinovac, but the producer also received a negative portion. In time, they came up with a new topic to discuss — the failure of the information campaign. Do you know what budget the Ministry of Health has for a campaign to promote vaccination for a year? Zero bracelets zero copies. All that happens in the information space about vaccination is the credit of our doctors, experts and international organizations. UNICEF, USAID, WHO, and other international partners are supporting and continuing to help us carry out an explanatory work on the importance and necessity of vaccination. I have one example of such support in my hands: a collection of answers to 100 questions about vaccinations and vaccines. It was prepared through the Ministry of Health’s expertise and the support of the best Ukrainian experts and public organizations. And printing for doctors is done at the expense of foreign partners. I am grateful to the international partners for their financial support for the health of the Ukrainians. Let's go back to the vaccines. It was difficult to get away from most of the negative emotions that had been ripped around the supply of vaccines to Ukraine by Pfizer. At times, it seemed to be the only panacea of all diseases in the world, although it was solely the supply of 117 thousand doses at the international COVAX initiative, to which the state of Ukraine had no effect. I am grateful to those MPs who have taken a state position and in strict terms supported our bill, which has removed all legal obstacles to Pfizer vaccine in Ukraine. Today, the first 117 thousand doses of vaccine will arrive in Ukraine. The next batches are 10 million doses of Pfizer vaccines with direct deliveries, starting in May/June. In general, 32 million doses of vaccines are contracted by various manufacturers, and we continue to contract further. President Vladimir Zelenski's decree on the comprehensive immunization of Ukrainians will be fully implemented this year. Under each vial of these 32 million doses, a colossal work is hidden — virtually all branches of government — the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry, and the diplomatic corps. There's no market or vaccine store in the world where you can come and choose any of your tastes and desires. There's no market. But there is a completely pirated and sometimes cynical struggle against the use of political and hard economic instruments. Only in the middle of the year under paid contracts, without taking into account the COVAX initiative, would we have already received 3.9 million doses of vaccines. But contracts and supplies are being broken down all over the world. Governments explicitly forbid their manufacturers from sending vaccines for export. In March, Italy blocked the export of AstraZeneca to Australia, and the Indian government stopped sending us 1.5 million doses of AstraZeneca and Covishield vaccines. In the context of that, I want to ask. How long does it take for everyone to understand the complexity of the delivery of vaccines to Ukraine, and how can we or cannot influence it? In this year’s budgeting, we thought strategically and predicted that additional financial resources would be needed for the purchase of vaccines. We put them in the draft budget. These figures were based on clear calculations, but in the end, the Ministry of Health received only a quarter of what was needed. At this point in the fire, we had to essentially hand-in-hand redistribute funds from the fourth quarter of the program of health guarantees for the purchase of vaccines. To stop the hap on this subject, I officially declare that these costs will be reimbursed in full. They really belong to humans. As "Iron Lady" Margaret Thatcher said, "The country doesn't have its own money. There's only taxpayers' money." We're going to buy vaccines anyway because they're vital. I'm sure Parliament will support appropriate changes to the state budget, and everything will be in place. I look forward to supporting this budget in the session room. The world pandemic of coronavirus will not end tomorrow, it's a game of debt. For COVID there will be specific other infectious diseases and pandemics, and they need to be prepared now. The situation with COVID has made it very clear to all of us that in the event of a critical situation, our country can rely solely on its own resources — its doctors, its scientists, its own production. The first thing we need to learn is to really appreciate them and respect them. They're our army that has to be provided in every way. The Ministry of Health has prepared a bill proposing to attach the minimum wage of our health - care professionals to the corresponding number of living minimums. This will allow the wages of our doctors, middle and younger medical staff to be brought to an acceptable level. I'm sure the doctor's minimum salary should be at least 23,000 dollars, the average medical staff should be 17,000 dollars, and the younger should be 12,000 dollars. The other one. We need to constantly invest in the preparation of our own medical personnel, infrastructure, and medical facilities, and finally look at the scientific potential of our country. Self - development vaccines cannot appear in a garage or dormitory; they need scientists, scientists, worthy of funding, and respect for everyone, from politicians to ordinary people. The funding of these items has been listed by us, has been budgeted to some extent, but unfortunately, it has not been accepted. And I didn't mention the concept of order in the first place. We're gradually giving this order in the medical field, and although not everything depends solely on the Ministry's efforts, I'm sure we can build a new Ukrainian medicine. The Ukrainians earned the right to health and longevity. Let's fight for this right together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u3	Thank you, Reverend Maxime Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, we turn to questions from a specific subject to the Ukrainian Minister of Health from MPs and groups. Please sign up for the question. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u4	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Maxime Volodymyrovich, at the beginning of your ministerial office, you criticized the reform of your predecessor, Uljana Suprun. Today, I think you are continuing her case, especially in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine (art. 49). In your case, with the increase in COVID disease, cardiovascular disease, cancer, in your job as minister, hospital institutions are closing down. In particular, on April 5, 2021, Grebinkovsky District Hospital number 2 (formerly the Basilk district, now the Bilocerkow district of Kyiv district), was closed, and all medical personnel were released. I would like to ask you very much to consider this, in this situation. You can go to a place (this is 52 kilometers from Kiev) and do everything you can to get the hospital to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u5	Thank you. Thank you for asking. The question of closing hospitals, I am deeply convinced, cannot happen in our country. They can re-profile depending on their competence. They can add other medical services to their treatment, but they will not close, thus releasing our doctors and nurses. I'll definitely see what you're talking about, about this hospital, and I wrote it down. I will definitely take a look and give you an answer to your questions about what happened, what happened if that happened, what the consequences, what we will continue to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u6	It's all right, isn't it? Thank you. Please, Stefanisina, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u7	As long as you report here, in these moments, Mr. Stepanov, at one of the Kiev cemetery, is buried by a man, he died from a coronavirus. And your parents asked you to tell his story. Three more weeks ago, he was a perfectly healthy man for 68 years. He had a real diabetes. He went to the family doctor and asked him to vaccinate since COVID-19. And they said, "There is no vaccine for you." Because we don't have nearly vaccines in the country because you didn't put them in. In a few days, he became ill and recently died. And today his relatives are hiding this person because you are unable to provide Ukraine with vital vaccines. So, Mr. Stepanov, these are the burial flowers that the relatives of a man who died at 68 years of age have asked you to convey to you that every death (500 per day) is followed by a specific person and specific tragedies and human fates.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u8	Next, it means when you are. [[B in m in s a l in]] See you next time. The next time you manipulate people's deaths. Please be quiet. I listened to you very carefully. The next time you manipulate people’s deaths, remember, please, what you did, you yourself, so that these deaths will not occur. What have you personally done? You don't have to manipulate people's deaths. COVID is a serious disease. COVID is a disease.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, please, I'll ask you, come on. Dear colleagues, if you are interested in the answer, please let us hear the answer and we can shout later. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u10	COVID is a serious disease that takes people's lives. COVID is a disease that takes people's lives. I'm telling you again, you don't have to manipulate and use people's deaths for your manipulations and your cheap pianist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u11	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u12	Mr. Minister, I've sent you a reference to which I've received three pages of receipts and no answers in essence. I'm curious if the government has decided that the first-born doctors from November should be working with the lame, why isn't there any way that they're supposed to receive 300 percent of the payments? That's the first question. The second question. On March 31, the government decided to grant additional subsidies to local authorities for the purchase of oxygen concentrates. Please tell me what prevented the government and the Ministry of Health during the last year to adopt this decision much earlier in order to ensure the capacity to produce additional medical oxygen or to purchase oxygen concentrates? Well, third. The manipulations come from you, unfortunately. And just stop blaming the people's deputies for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u13	First. That's what I'm talking about. I, with your permission, Joanna, will begin with your third question. All I'm asking is not to manipulate you, your colleagues with people's deaths, just not to do it. Now for your questions. With regard to oxygen concentrators and an approved decision. This is about oxygen concentrators at the primary level in order to ensure that family concentrators, which are very often needed by post-water patients, do not need to be kept at the hospital level in order to be a suitable exchange fund in family medicine. It is for these things that adequate additional funds have been allocated for the purchase of family doctors, I emphasize. Regarding the provision of centralized oxygen and concentrators, 1.5 billion dollars were allocated from the government budget last year alone. The number of beds with oxygen increased from 3.5 thousand years ago to 67,000 today. I think these are numbers that speak for themselves. And as for oxygen concentrates for family medicine, I told you. Now 300 percent for family doctors. Before we added that family doctors are running suitable patients with COVID, who very often should not communicate according to our standards and protocols with them, we also raised the so-called equity rate for family doctors so that they would have an appropriate salary increase. When you talk about their association with them, family doctors with the sick, it is important for us to guide them, monitor the patient’s condition rather than accept him.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u14	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Misagina Yuri Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u15	Please pass the word to my colleague Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u16	Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u17	Mr. Secretary, surely, most are grateful for the work that has been done, which has become positive, but to be honest, it would be better for everyone. I'd like to draw your attention to Kharkish. Today, Kharkiv is the second region in Ukraine to have a history of coronary disease. The last period is 1,377 cases. 30 people were killed. Hospitals aren't ready. Local government authorities, government authorities, have not prepared for coronary disease. "Quick" doesn't take people. Oxygen points are missing. The lack of oxygen cells is due to the blocked, sorry, Suez Canal. I ask you to pay attention to Kharkushina, to carry out an examination of the willingness of health institutions to continue to combat coronary disease. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u18	Thank you for asking. So it's about Kharkiv County. In the past week, an appropriate commission was sent to the city of Kharkiv, directly to the city of Kharkiv, on the number of oxygen points, on the number of beds with oxygen provided. It's all been recalculated. What can I say? Appropriate differences were found in some hospitals. The total variance, I think, was about 372 beds. It has been clearly taken into account how fast enough it will be, i.e. this number will be renewed, based on the statistics that it is today. What a situation today. In fact, 68 percent of the beds with oxygen are now occupied in the Kharkiv region. At the same time, we already see negative levels of hospitalization in the Kharkiv region. So the rate of hospitalization, the dynamics of the hospitalization went down, both across the country and in the Kharkiv region. But the situation really remains tense enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u19	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy Kabachenko Volodymyr Viktorovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u20	Request to pass the word Eutusek to Sergio Mikolaiovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u21	Sergei Mikolaiovich Eutuszk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u22	Thank you, Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland, Equinox. The main task of the past is, in principle, to minimize health spending in the context of health reform. Mrs. Suprun was very clear on this. But at the same time, we still see the same trends today, when even now in the report, Mr. Minister, you're saying that, if you need to spend, you've reduced these government expenditures. Please tell me, is there the least way to make changes to Decree 331 right now and pay below 300 percent for drivers, accountants, elevators working with crippled patients? Is it possible to provide financial resources in all areas, including the Equinox, for the establishment of oxygen stations? Because we see that, yes, there's a question of "Great Construction," but unfortunately, we don't see the installation of oxygen stations, and now it's very important for every resistance hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. That's 300 percent of the pay. This is really a matter of such control. We pay for it because of the payment of COVID-19 patients to every hospital that directly treats patients, and more than 500 hospitals in our country. And I could say that we're in this number of hospitals and the number of beds, we've just gone to the limit, because I'm saying that other diseases haven't done any vacations. That's the first one. That's why they pay in full. The second is about oxygen stations and oxygen supply of beds. We systematically do this work, we insist that oxygen stations are not the only ones. That it should not be just creocylinders that are today. Because when, for example, there's a three-ton cryocylinder in the hospital, on the condition that the hospital consumes 2.5 tons a day for today, we realize that it's every day we have to pick up and pick up oxygen, what we're doing in essentially manual mode. Yes, we had problems in the Hmelnicki district, in the Chernigiv region, when cars were manually turned around and sent there so that no hospital would run out of oxygen. So this is a strategic question, and we're doing it to the local self-government authorities that own these hospitals, so that they can do everything in oxygen stations. What's more, you and I understand that oxygen station is not a concentrator that can be bought and placed, so you have to do some work that's done.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u24	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u25	Please pass the word to Mrs. Irina Konstankevitch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u26	Irina Miroslavna Konstanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u27	Mr. Secretary, first of all, I would like to thank you for the excellent example of speaking art, but unfortunately, it is a demagogy, a profound demagogy. First. You've spilled twice. About the doctor's salary. Please tell me, what did you do to make our medical staff pay different? What did you do to keep the 33rd package scheduled to pay from September 1st to April 1st? The second question. What did you do to reverse this FaPah access policy? This is a real problem for rural medicine. And the third question. Please tell me how much hemodialysis is going to be a theme for making a certain structure? When will normal hemodialysis be introduced and made available? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u28	First. What happened to the 33rd package, which from September 1st was an appropriate supplement, which was extended until April 1st. It was my initiative, not yours. That's what you did when you said it. Next. Now these costs, which were directly provided in the 33rd packet, are listed in the corresponding tariffs that are paid for medical care, I've given you examples. For example, it is the same rate for treatment, for emergency medical care, which has increased more than twice so that these supplements are preserved in these tariffs. But what I'm stressing is that even with the payments that there are, this salary of health workers, it's catastrophic. That is why we have drafted an appropriate bill to link the minimum wage of health - care workers to a certain number of subsistence minimums in the same scenario as, for example, prosecutors. Now this bill is in agreement with colleagues, and we sent it according to procedure. And we think it is necessary to do so in order to put an end to the question of wages forever. Now about dialysis, you asked a question. This year we increased the cost of dialysis just as a service and calculated it, based on the actual figures, the costs that are on dialysis, so that regardless of the form of ownership, either the utility, or the state, or the private institution. Because we have the number of people on dialysis today, it's at least four times smaller than what we need, according to European indicators. And it was for these things that we had to increase these numbers. We've increased, and we've increased substantially enough to cover it completely, completely. As far as rural medicine is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u29	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u30	Mr. Secretary, it is clear that the subject of vaccination today is extremely sensitive, irritable. We have the following questions. The countries of the European Union are introducing a single document, a so-called vaccination passport. Are we planning a similar document? What will he consider? When is his introduction scheduled? Are there negotiations with the neighbouring countries as to how our document will be accepted? Next. You know, in recent times, there have been a lot of witnesses, other types of evidence that are, frankly, false, that is, vaccinations and so on. Is there work going on in this direction, as it is clear, along with the law enforcement authorities? And to conclude, it's the subject of pay. The first link (PMS) is a settled question. When do we get to the second and third levels of wage raise?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u31	Thank you. The first is about vaccination passports. In the European Union, Justice Commissioner Didier Rangers presented their project on April 13th, which is how they're going to introduce, well, it's not even a vaccine passport anymore, it's a passport like that. Why? Because it provides, in addition to the human immunization mark, for plr testing of the antibodies carried out and even the number of antibodies that ensure the immunity of the person concerned from the coronary disease. This caused a heated discussion even among the MEPs, so we expect them to make the final decision in what way they will be. On the other hand, in a permanent manner, we are working with our European partners on what data and how they want to implement it. For our part, we are fully prepared for any development, because our central component of our eHealth is ready to download any data. We have all the vaccination data, we have all the disease data, we have all the testing data, and everything else, so we're fully prepared for any development. I think it's very important that the discussion inside the country about the use of such passports within the country is very important, and it's clear that once most of the population of the country is covered. As for the evidence of counterfeiting, once again, I'm saying that if we have vaccination passports, well, then it's going to go the other way. As for the salary, well, I was just saying, I was just saying how we can settle by setting the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u32	Thank you, Maxim Volodymyrovich. Thank you. Please take your place in the government’s bed. Dear colleagues, before we go to the questions to the members of the government from the national MPs, I just want to go to the room with one request. We all have a lot of pain for what COVID does to both Ukrainians and the world. But let us not forget that it all begins with each one of us. And when I look in the hall and I see 50 percent of people who aren't wearing masks, I want to go to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the twentieth time, using the government's presence here. Dear colleagues, let's find an opportunity to apply responsibility, equal to all, including to national MPs. And people's deputies should be fined, and they should be able to get fined. This will increase their awareness and pain in general in the country, as well as the state budget of Ukraine. Let's wear masks so that, don't give God, then don't wear flowers. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm moving on to questions to the members of the government from the national MPs. Please sign up for the question. The question is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Laby Mikhail Mikhailovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u33	Please give it to Alexander Kachuri. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u34	Alexander Anatolyovich Kachura Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u35	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. My question will be to Minister Stepanov because there is no more important question than the health of Ukrainian citizens. You know, you quoted Margaret Thatcher today, and I agree with you that there is no budget -- there are taxpayers' costs. So almost a billion dollars of taxpayers' taxes were spent on buying Sinovac. On February 23, you answered my parliamentary call and indicated that you did not know if the delivery would be until March 31st of this vaccine. And you asked government purchases, and government purchases didn't give you an answer. It's April 16th. Is there an answer to that question? And you know, here they're collecting signatures for your resignation. I didn't sign it. Because I don't think the horse is changing. I understand how difficult it is for you, but please convince the entire room that I am personally and that those who have not done so are not wrong about you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u36	What's wrong with Sinovac? We got 215,000 doses of vaccine first. We expect a further 1.7 million doses of this vaccine. I can tell you that I communicate almost every day with the Ambassador of the People's Republic of China in Ukraine, the company Sinovac, about sending these vaccines. I've already stressed that what's happening in the world now with the supply of vaccines has nothing to do with the world's market laws, which we're all used to when contracts have fines when you can influence something when you can do something. It's just that countries are restricting the export of vaccines, they're simply banning exports. This is happening in all the countries in the world that have their own production in their territory. Finally, we have to admit that in order to be protected in the future, and I stress that this is not the last world pandemic that we may have to prepare in the future. We need to have our own vaccine production -- it'll be the only protection against infectious diseases in the future. And to do that, you have to spend the cost of science, the cost of production, the cost of development, the cost of fundamental science. It's the right thing to do. As long as we don't understand it, we're always going to have this problem. As far as the nearest supply is concerned, when we're waiting. From Sinovac, according to the last schedule they gave us, all 1.7 million doses should be given during the last days of April and May of this year. In addition, we are now negotiating with them a clear timetable for the supply of vaccines in the future, starting in June of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u37	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u38	Please give the word of Volodymyr Váterović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u39	Vladimir Mihajlovich Vjatrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u40	Good afternoon. I also have a question for Minister Stepanov. Mr. Minister, you described the situation very dramatically in your Ministry of Health. You've quite clearly shown the causes of the problems in this ministry, particularly this budget. You clearly indicated that this is a budget that destroys health care, that it is a budget that has prevented enough vaccines from being purchased in Ukraine, that it is a budget that has eventually led to the death of thousands of people. I have a very simple question for you, a question that even you can answer. What kind of government has contributed this budget? What political power in Parliament has ensured its approval? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u41	You know, it's very sad that you see problems in Ukrainian medicine and the lack of funding for the treatment of patients, including COVID, only as problems of the Ministry of Health. I asked you, maybe let's change this thesis, maybe this is the problem of a country that needs to be solved, our 40 million-dollar country? Yes, we stressed that in order to ensure adequate funding for Ukrainian medicine, in order to reduce mortality from one disease or another, in order for us to continue in life, we need real financing of our medicine in the way we gave, even considering that this medicine has been destroyed for 30 years. And what's been going on for the last five to six years is that this vachanalia has just been happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u42	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Hončarenko Alexiyyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u43	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Unfortunately, I have to ask Mr. Stephen. Although I would like to point out that Mr. Stepanov is still in position, his goal is to take on all the negatives about the disaster against the pandemic, that's actually the goal. In all the world, it is the presidents, the heads of government, who are responsible for the vaccines. Open the White House website, there's a photo of Byden himself, and how many vaccines are made every day, and so there's 180 million in three months, and in two months we're miserable 400,000. Yesterday, 13,000 vaccinations. At this rate it's going to take six years, and we already have Pfizer's statement that we're probably going to have to vaccinate people every year. We have to increase the number of vaccines 10 times. When will you do it? Unfortunately, I'm asking Mr. Stepanov. And the question to the Minister of Economics. You are responsible for the mobilization plans, their refinement, businesses, and institutions. Are they ready in view of the security situation on Ukraine’s border with Russia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u44	First. If someone is holding you somewhere in your life, I think that's already your problem. And I'm a health minister. That's the first one. It's different. For vaccinations, vaccination campaigns, and vaccinations. I've already stressed it over and over again, and I'm telling you, maybe this time, you might hear it. That we have, yes, problems with the supply of vaccines. As a result of our contractual obligations, without COVAX, we should have received 3.9 million doses of vaccines by now. Problems have arisen with our international partners, with countries that have their own production. You'd better take care of how to rebuild your own production instead of doing this demagogue and the cheap pianist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u45	Thank you. Minister of Economics, Petrasko Igor Rostislavovich, please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u46	Thank you. With regard to the mobilization reserves, it's clear that they're designed according to plans and we're fully prepared for calls from the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u47	Please, Deputy People's Honourable Sergey Anatoliyovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u48	Sergey the Great, Lugansk. I give the word to Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u49	Dear members of the government, dear colleagues! I want to remind you that last year, in March, we passed a law that allowed us to bring out a cadaver's purchase from under the tender. What caused this? This helped us in three months to fill the market with personal remedies, drugs. But there is nothing as permanent as temporary. To this day we have given the government the right to make this list. So today we have 400 positions and 163,000 procedures that have been conducted, tenderly, for 33 billion dollars. It's all out of the control of the Maintenance Service, out of the control of law enforcement. And even if we find that they buy 50 bracelets of masks there, it's an ineffective use, so nobody sits down and even a criminal case won't open. When do we finally cover this bench for the state funds? And when will the government reduce it and not increase it at the expense of aprons, boots, and thermocoders and mattresses? Please, Mr. Laishka, who is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u50	Thank you. The government is constantly monitoring the implementation of this decree. I give the word to Maxim Stepan and briefly to Petrasek Igor for comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u51	As far as this decision is concerned, we have already begun to reduce, to reduce, the list of things that are foretold there. We're going to keep doing this. We're making our bids to the Ministry of Economics to really reduce. What's going on in the future, Mrs. Larissa, you know my position, you've been talking to one of my deputies. We think that we need to make fundamental changes in the future in order to have a special order of purchase during challenges like the pandemic, as short as possible, but still with the use of ProZorro.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u52	Thank you. Indeed, the Ministry of Health and I are now discussing the return of normal purchasing procedures for pharmaceutical products. And we'll get out. In fact, our general position that purchasers still have to go back to normal through ProZorro.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u53	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u54	Mr. First Vice Speaker, would you please tell me what's going on? For the first time in three weeks, we're having an hour of questions to the government. Where is the Prime Minister of the Government? And why, when we have military aggression, when we have a pandemic problem, a vaccine problem and an economic problem, can't the government come in full every three weeks to meet the national MPs? And that's why I'm insisting once again on the Voice faction, if the government doesn't want to come like this, let's call an emergency meeting, and have Mr. Homczak and Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Stepanov report there. And now, perhaps, the question to Mr. Stephen. Please tell me, when are we going to start the vaccination? Because we've been inoculating as many as 80,000 people this week. What kind of cascading is this when we have actually stopped the increase in vaccinations since the end of March? When are you actually going to start doing mass vaccination, like in Poland, when more than a million people were vaccinated this week? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u55	Thank you. Let me try again in two minutes, anyway. For the vaccine to take place and to increase the amount, there must be a vaccine, and the vaccine must be given directly. As I have pointed out on several occasions in this room, I have told you in person that we have problems supplying vaccines. Once again, I want to give you a figure: 3.9 million doses of vaccines, which, by contract, without COVAX, should have been given to us by the end of April. Today, unfortunately, we only have 700,000 of these doses. What is the reason? The reason is that countries with appropriate production in their territories do not allow them to be exported. Costs for all these vaccines are paid in full. As soon as they arrive, as soon as the vaccines arrive in Ukraine, the number of vaccines will be increased as soon as possible. We've prepared infrastructure, medical infrastructure in full measure. It's very easy to compare with the United States of America, where there are two of the largest vaccine producers, and now the third one has joined, which just doesn't export these vaccines. So I insist that we make our own production. Yeah, it takes a few years, but if we start now, we'll have vaccines in three years. If we start in two years, we're going to have five. But we have to get started. And if we started five years ago, we wouldn't have had that kind of trouble right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u56	The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP Konstankević Irina Miroslavni, the parliamentary group "For the Future".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u57	Please pass the word to Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u58	Polakov, please, Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u59	I have a question: where is the Prime Minister, where is the Minister of Energy? Who should I ask about tariffs, about real things in our country right now? What's this mess? What is this disrespect for the people's deputies, for the parliament? And a question to Mr. Stepanov. First of all, stop your hamster behavior, just like you talk to a woman, and by the way, with a national MP, you'll be talking to your wife. And the second question. When will our military be vaccinated? Why was only 15,000 vaccinated and 70 soldiers killed by COVID? And why is it that no guile compensation is paid for sickness and death to close relatives and doctors? Why did 10 people just get this compensation in a year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u60	First. Well, hamsters, I think you're more interested in them than I am. Now it's about your question. It's about vaccination for the military. We've got a first-time vaccine from the military. Moreover, at first all our military personnel were vaccinated in the area of operations of the United Nations. And now we're scheduled for vaccination of the rest of the military. And those numbers that you call, they don't just match the reality, and that's an honest lie. That's the first one. Next. As for direct payments to medical personnel. I'll give the word to Marina Volodymyrny Lazebny, because it's the Ministry of Social Policy that pays off. The exact same number you called is another lie. Now Marina Volodymyrna will tell you how much is paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u61	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. With regard to the operational information on payments financed by the Social Insurance Fund, we pay the families of the dead and pay compensation for the disability associated with COVID. So far, we have received acts from the Social Insurance Fund: 600 reports of fatalities, 449 of them worked; 163 cases related to production, 286 cases unrelated. Now, with regard to those where production is involved, and where the state has to make payments. 78 acts were closed in 2020, and 36 families were paid, where 1.5 million were paid. After 2021, 10, no, 10, 51 family payments were paid in three months. Where the medics died in the workplace. 30 are now in operation. Only the documents will be confirmed - they will also be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u62	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Litvinenko Sergey Anatoliyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u63	May I have the floor to pass on to Black Sea Artem Olegovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u64	Artem Olegovich of the Black Sea, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u65	Thank you, Chairman. My question will be about Igor Rostislavovich, Minister of Economics and Agriculture, because he is a very rare guest on the "hour of questions to the government." My question will be from the major of the Mikolai district, as it will from the entire agrarian committee. Mr. Igor Rostislavovich, have you begun a disciplinary investigation according to the letter of 06.04. 2021? The other one. Will the head of the DPSS be subject to disciplinary responsibility for appointing people who are being detained in a bribe two months after their appointment? An example of the Mikolai region. Did the investigation into DSS’s head’s inaction lead to the death of a large number of red - colored birds in the Hersonian region, which estimated the damage to more than 3 million bracelets? Also, my statement is to be counted as a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u66	Thank you for asking. In fact, we received a call. Now it's going through the processing process. And all the answers you've given, we're very serious about them, and they're going to be given in the official order as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u67	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u69	It's been a year since the pandemic started, and you might think a little bit about what oxygen problems might happen. In particular, there are areas where there is no oxygen production. And in some areas of oxygen, there were major problems, especially in the Hmělničina, so that the local pro-domestics would then somehow get something in their relationships and then plentiful. But there is no system. Nevertheless, the government approves Decree No. 333 on the allocation of subsidies to local authorities for the purchase of concentrators. I have two questions. First. A year ago, to think about what oxygen might have to be produced, couldn't it be? And the second question. Who, at what prices, will sell the concentrators at government expense? Because, according to available information, after the government's decision, prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u70	The first is about the problems in the hops you said. This issue, a problem in Hmelnicin, was caused by a problem in the Lviv chemical plant, where just one of the aggregates broke down. The Ministry of Health has made a redistribution of oxygen in the emergency order, and this is about liquid oxygen in these hospitals, from the Dnipropetrov region, from other areas first 2 tons, then another 20 tons of oxygen that have been imported. We have no example in Ukraine, no hospital with no oxygen left. Yeah, we're getting a lot of oxygen right now. But in the same case, we find an opportunity to solve this issue, including by further certifying companies for the production of medical oxygen. Next: about the concentrators. I've already answered that question, well, I guess you weren't interested. These concentrators, which have been earmarked for the purchase of these concentrators, will go as a subsidy directly into the region to buy the primary-level concentrators. What does that mean? What we have, especially right now, with post-water syndrome is a large number of people who sometimes need oxygen support right under outpatient conditions, that is, home conditions. That's why we're buying these conglomerates so that we can have an exchange fund with our family doctors. I have already answered that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. Let's thank our colleagues, wish us success in the work. In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we turn to the declaration of requests. Please invite the national MPs. There will be eight questions, if I'm not mistaken, to the President of Ukraine, they need a vote. As the national MPs enter, Ruslan Alexiyovich, please make two announcements.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, according to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "The State Tax Service of Ukraine, the State Customs Service of Ukraine and the Bureau of Economic Security – without corruption". The leader of this union of the elected Ukrainian national deputy, Leonov Aleksandrovich. Another interfractional parliamentary association is "For the establishment and legislative provision of the Ukrainian music industry". The heads of this association elected Ukrainian national deputies Tkachenka Maksim Mikolaiovich and Mikolaiovich of the Road. I welcome colleagues with interfractional connections.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u73	Olena Konstantinovna Kondratjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u74	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. While you occupy all your jobs and prepare for the vote. During the plenary week, 121 deputies were asked of them: to the President of Ukraine – 9 parliamentary requests, to the Supreme Council – 2 bodies, to the Cabinet of Ministers – 57, to the heads of other public authorities – 42, to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination and forms of property – 11. At the request of the people’s deputies (Gorbenka, Tkachenka, and others). We're not reading their MPs today, but we're moving on to the questions that have come from you to the President of Ukraine. So we can prepare for the vote. A roll-call vote is under way to support Alexander Sukhov's request to the President of Ukraine for the commitment of Luhansk District Military and Civil Administration leader Hayday S.V. To allocate the public budget subsidy for the completion of the work under the "capital repair of the first floor of the Rubižany City Central Hospital therapeutic corps" facility. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:13:50]] For 219 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:14:15]] For 218. The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request by Mikola Zadródny to the President of Ukraine for the award of Maxim Ridzanic by the name of Hero of Ukraine (later). Please vote. [[11:14:46]] For 240 Decision taken. Colleagues, maybe a little quieter so you don't yell out who you're asking, a national MP. Well, I can't hear you, because you're very hard to hear. Thank you. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. I remind you, this is a request from Mikola of the Road. Please vote. [[11:15:24]] For 246 Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by the request of a group of national deputies (Capitina, Bakumova and others). A total of 9 national deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to eliminate the Kharkiv state airline crisis. Please vote. [[11:15:59]] For 269 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:16:24]] For 265 Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports Anatolia Ostapenka's request to the President of Ukraine for the composition of the Advisory Council on the Rights and Freedoms of Ukrainian Defenders. Please vote. [[11:16:57]] For 253 Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Kingdom, Solod, and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine reiterating the rights of citizens in the area of social protection. Please vote. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. It is up to vote on the decision to refer Anatoly Ostapenko's pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. We need to dial 226. Please vote. [[11:18:10]] For 255 Decision taken. The next MP's request. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Kingdom, Solod, and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine reiterating the rights of citizens in the area of social protection. Please vote. [[11:18:48]] For-164 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:19:11]] For-152. The decision is not taken. The next MP's request. A roll call is made to support Roman Ivanov's request to the President of Ukraine for an unsatisfying environmental situation in the village of the town-type Clave of the Plain region. Please vote. [[11:19:47]] For 233 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:20:12]] For 229 Decision taken. There is an open-ended vote in support of Roman Lozinski's request to the President of Ukraine for the cessation of Axion's citizenship, Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please vote. [[11:20:43]] For 204 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:21:09]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Put to the roll a roll vote to support the request of a group of national deputies (Losinsky, Kravchuk, and others). A total of 42 national MPs) to the President of Ukraine on the assignment of the title Hero of Ukraine to the posthumous fighter of Idar, the volunteer, the photographer, and the painting of Victor Gurniak. Please vote. [[11:21:50]] For 252 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote, be determined. [[11:22:15]] For 257 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. These are all the questions we need to vote on. I'm moving on to reading your parliamentary requests, your honorary colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u75	So it's the MP's questions. Arsenija Pushkarenka to Kiev City State Administration for immediate action to complete the reconstruction of the Start Stadium in Kiev. Constantine Bondarev to the head of the Association of Co-owners of the Red Star, 4-B apartment building, head of the Association of Co-owners of the Red Star, 4-H apartment building, for the exploitation of labour documents. Constantine Bondarev to the Society with limited responsibility for "The Bureau of Technical Inventory of Land Formation and Real Estate", the Institute of Public Administration and Scientific Research with Civil Protection for the Protection of Violations of Rights and the Use of Technical Documentation. Groups of people’s deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide funding for the construction of a public educational institution. Groups of people’s deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Humanities and Information Policy on the need for a comprehensive review of the Odessa City Council’s appeal to improve legislation in the field of external advertising. Groups of people’s deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Kyiv City State Administration on the use of effective measures to provide adequate services to residents in the area of housing and utilities. Groups of people’s deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection regarding violations of acceptable health standards. Groups of people’s deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Attorney General’s Office for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Groups of people’s deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) Total 4) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of effective and effective measures for the payment of pension insurance in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to ensure the payment of salaries to teachers. People’s Deputies ( The weaver, the Shinkarenka, and others. A total of 4 deputies) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to enforce court decisions on the payment of social assistance provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. Groups of people’s deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Society with limited responsibility for gas transport system operator of Ukraine for gasification of the population sites of the region of Odessa, Bilgorod-Dnistrovsky and Ishmael. Sergey Nagorniak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to address the effects of energy abuse related to the activities of this “BOOD-BUILDING GROUP”. Mikoli Zadrojny to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the award of Maxim Rizanic by the name of Hero of Ukraine (death). Alexander Jurchenka to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the General Administration of the State Service of Ukraine, with exceptional situations in Kiev, Permanent Commission on Technological and Environmental Safety and Emergency Situations of the Executive Body of the Kyiv City Council (Kyiv City State Administration) to prevent the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy Jurchenka O. M. and to create artificial obstacles during the joint inspection with the DSS Ukraine of the situation of fire safety on the Jasinavatsky 10th Street, 11th in the Golosi district of Kiev. Maxima Berezin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase the payment of material aid and improve the social support of citizens affected by the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident, with the aim of honouring the feat of participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident, ensuring adequate social protection for the victims of the Chernobyl disaster. Sergey Litvinenka to the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine regarding the provision of information. Oleg Kolewa to the Odessa City Head, head of the Odessa District State Administration for complaints from patients and volunteers about the organization and quality of medical care in Odessa and Odessa. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister for Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the proper use of the land areas of the Tsuma Desert. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, on the transfer of the property right of the State to the municipal property of the territorial community. Constantine Kasaya to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine, on improper execution and completion of construction work during the construction of the N-31 road "Travel of the city of Kobilaka and the village of Krasne". Alexander Gerega to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the No.57/22 military town in Hmelnitské. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of additional funds to complete the construction of international crossing points in the region of Cherniewec. Maksim Zariski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the bridge in the town of Stožinec of the Chernieweck region, which was destroyed during the flood of 2010. Maxim Zariski to the Head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine on speeding up the process of opening international points of entry in the territory of the Chernivecki region. Bogdan Torochti to the Head of the National Tax Service of Ukraine for the payment of part of the net revenue (income) to the State budget by state-owned unitary enterprises and their associations, which are part of the administration of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director-General of the Association of Stockholders for the use of measures to preserve the employment of AT 'Krošta' workers in the rural area and end the mass reduction, the elimination of rural post offices. Taras Batenka is responsible for carrying out the duties of the Head of State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine with regard to the implementation of the project "Childhood Preschool in the village of Rudniks of the Mikolai district of Lviv Region". Mikhail Bondar to the director of the regional branch of the Lviv Railway Association of the Ukrzaliznica Stock Exchange, who is responsible for the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the problem of decommissioning separate railway routes across the inhabited areas of the Krasna territorial community of the Zoločov district of Lviv.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-16-m0.u76	Thank you, Olena Constantine. Thank you, Your Honor. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. I wish everyone good work on committees and districts.
