ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. I remind you, once the registration is started, you need to hold the sensor button, press the "Z" button and hold it until the end of the registration, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:05:39]] There are 224 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies. Igor Petrovich Kisilova, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Alexia Alexandrovich Kuznietsov, "Slut of the People" faction. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] And Suto Choloevich Mamyan, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life." Let's welcome a colleague. [[Applause]] Honorable colleagues, strong health, and a successful work for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, before I went to the list of issues proposed for discussion, I received a statement from two factions with a break and a replacement for the performance. The word is given to the national deputy of Kožemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u2	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! On February 11, 2014, in the city of Kremenchuk of Poltavsk, a judge of the Kremenchuk Regional Court of Cremenchuk, Alexander Stanislavovic, was killed. That same year, on July 26, 2014, the city’s head, Kremenchuka, was killed by the same gun. Who is Babayev Oleg? Oleg Babayev is a colonel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This is a successful businessman, a football functioner, a member of the Fatherland faction of the Sixth Call, the president of the Warsaw Football Club. Suspects of a criminal offence were brought to the attention of four persons. However, since the 14th year, the case has not been completed and there has been no fair decision on the suspects. Very well, too. This very resonant criminal conduct is not being investigated and prolonged. Today, the Pyrasatin District Court of Poltava County is the ninth court to be tried today at 10 a.m. by the court of first instance. It's a complete court order. Why is it happening? Because it's taking a long time to file a case in court, to deal with it, to deal with it, to deal with it, to keep the judges away, to get the jury away, and so forth, and it's all going on for seven years. Note that during the 14th year of the case, six judicial colleges in five district courts in the Poltava region were tried for five years, and the October District Court of Poltava even returned the indictment to the prosecution. With a view to ensuring transparency and impartiality, and the fairness of investigating the circumstances of the murder, the Fatherland faction proposes and insists on creating a temporary commission of inquiry in the Council. Also in the near future, a draft decree will be registered for the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation into the murder of Judge Lobodenka Alexander Stanislavovic and the city head of the city of Kremenchuk Poltaw district of Babejev Oleg Meidanović of the former Supreme Council of the Sixth Call. I ask all the MPs and groups to submit their nominations to the interim commission of inquiry and to carry out a fair examination of the conduct of the investigation. Please consider this statement a request by the deputy attorney general of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making is given to you today. Let us go to their consideration. The first two questions are ratifications, 0129. The first is the draft Act ratifying the Protocol to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Government of Romania, the Government of the Slovak Republic and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine concerning the creation of a multinational engineering battalion. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I propose that you consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Prepare for the vote, we need to get 150 votes in order to deal with this issue under a reduced procedure. Take your seats. Ready to vote? Once again, I'm asking you to consider Bill 0129 on a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[10:10:40]] For 184 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to Deputy Defence Minister Alexander Mikolayovich Polishchuk. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u4	Good morning, distinguished Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs! The draft law was drafted in accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts for the purpose of carrying out the internal ratification procedure necessary for the entry into force of the Protocol to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Government of Romania, the Government of the Slovak Republic and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine concerning the establishment of a multinational engineering battalion. The Protocol to the above agreement introduces changes to the expansion of the battalion’s area of activity with a mission to assist the local civilian population and to contribute to the elimination of the effects of natural disasters in areas in the Tisa and Danube basins. At present, this area of activity of the battalion is confined only to the Tisa River’s watershed. The State authorities authorized to implement the protocol are the Ministry of Defense of Signatories. This bill does not require additional spending from the state budget. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u5	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni. Please, Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the European Union reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Protocol to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Government of Romania, the Government of the Slovak Republic and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the creation of a multinational engineering battalion, which was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (registration No. 0129) and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In making such a decision, members of the committee came from the fact that the adoption of Ukrainian law would allow for the completion of the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the protocol. The ratification of the protocol will allow for the expansion of the multinational engineering battalion with a mission to assist the local civilian population and to help eliminate the consequences of the disaster in the Tisa and Danube basins. Water disasters, colleagues, are responsible for 70 percent of all natural disasters. And the negative effects of floods and floods are now at 27 percent of the country’s population. The inhabitants of the Tisa River Basin often suffer from floods, even seasonal and anticipated flooding in conditions of heavy rainfall or rapid snow melts may result in a devastating flood. The villages of lowland areas are particularly affected, where the river’s waters and its tributaries coincide. Almost a third of the country’s territory still has negative effects on floods and floods, so complex flood protection in the Tisa and Danube basins is essential. In short, the adoption of Ukrainian law will have a positive impact on the organization of the process of eliminating the consequences of a possible disaster in the Tisa and Danube basins and will allow for expansion of activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u7	Thank you, Ivana Orestovna. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss this issue, please sign up: two in favour, two in favour, against, please. National Deputy Mikhailuk Galina Olegovna Mesenzi, I get it, right? Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u8	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the very significant ratification that we are voting on today. And, as Mrs. Ivanna Orestovna noted, this does not really need any additional expenses, since they are already placed in the programme of expenses and security for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. But we're definitely not alone here. Rivers near borders. These rivers flow along the borders of other states, as stated in the very name of ratification, this is Romania and the Slovak Republic. Of course, it's a joint action that will preserve peace, as a minimum of training, renewal, fuel-oil materials, but support not only our Ukrainian Armed Forces, but also their families. In fact, not only is Ukraine a native, but the entire planet, and the subcontinent of Europe, has faced different floods, and we have different examples of how man opposes what he is working on, and we have a very negative impact on them. In order for security to be maintained, we involve our international partners, and that back-up also includes a medical component. So this complex program that we are voting for today, and to vote, recommends the Committee on European Integration, will have a very positive impact on the fight against potential threats. Dear colleagues, I urge you to support and vote for this important ratification. Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u9	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "The European Platform -- For life." "European Solidarity." Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Irina Vasilovna Frez.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u11	Irina Vasilovna Friz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! "European solidarity" is a priority of its activities on the issue of Euro-Atlantic integration. This is important given the increased level of our interaction and the level of our compatibility not only in the defence sector but also in the security sector. This ratification will allow us to create a qualitative and effective interface between our Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Slovak Republic and the Government of Romania. In a proper manner, we support this ratification and we call for the support of the Hall, because increasing the capacity of our Ministry of Defence will allow us to integrate in the Alliance in a qualitative and effective manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u13	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u14	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Please give the word to my colleague from the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" of Suffrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u15	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm surprised, the simple question is to create an engineering battalion to improve the possibilities of jointly eliminating extraordinary situations across four countries. Tell me, why is NATO here? Again, NATO is on its ears, NATO, NATO! 2002 is this protocol signed by NATO? Well, what am I, a pain in the ass? Dear colleagues, please don't embarrass her. At least do something normal without NATO. By the way, it's about NATO. Siarto met with Kuleb yesterday. He's got balls about the Russian threat, and Siarto's about the rights of national minorities and Hungarians. So, where there is no problem, do not create, and where there is a problem, decide. Lavrov and Blinken said: Ukraine wants to implement the Minsk Accords. That's what Blinken said, by the way, that Ukraine wants to implement the Minsk Accords. Lavrov said: And Russia wants to implement the Minsk Accords. I've got a brain breach. Then who doesn't? Therefore, dear fellows, give to God Caesar. This law certainly needs to be supported because it needs to be strengthened to eliminate the extraordinary situations of the border areas of the four nations. That's really cool. And on the other hand, turn your brains on, everyone's already telling you, you have to end the Donbas conflict, you promised in a year. Arestovich said he wouldn't be in this cell. So who is President Zelenski or Arestovich? Identify yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u17	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rahmanin Sergey Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u18	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we vote with as many votes as possible to support this document, because this is very useful. And it's not just about the necessary assistance to the local population, which is suffering from extraordinary events and from natural disasters, especially floods, that's a very useful thing for our military personnel who will gain additional experience in cooperation with NATO military personnel, first. And secondly, they will acquire the necessary experience of eliminating extraordinary events, because it is quite likely that this experience will be needed by our military engineers, the bomb squads, the extraordinarys, the pontoners in case of exacerbation, which is theoretically possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Does anyone else want to speak? None of the factions and groups insist on speaking. So I ask the National Deputies to take their seats, and we approach this issue. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote on the proposal of the committee to adopt a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Government of Romania, the Government of the Slovak Republic and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine concerning the creation of a multinational engineering battalion (registration number 0129). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[10:22:18]] For 282 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Next question. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and a fair and equitable distribution of benefits from their use to the Convention on Biological Diversity (project registration number 0125). Dear colleagues, I propose that we address this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[10:22:58]] For 230 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Krasnolutsky Alexandr Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, there is a draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and a fair and equitable distribution of the benefits of their use under the Convention on Biological Diversity. To date, 131 countries are party to the protocol. Ukraine also signed the Nagoya Protocol in 2011. The goal of the Nagoya Protocol is a fair and equitable distribution of benefits from the use of genetic resources, including by ensuring adequate access to genetic resources and the proper transfer of appropriate technologies, taking into account all rights and resources for these technologies, and by properly financing the promotion of biodiversity and the continued use of its components. The Nagoya Protocol also applies to traditional genetic resources. Ukraine’s membership of the Nagoya Protocol provides for payment from the national budget of an annual contribution to the Nagoya Protocol of some $3,000. The Nagoya Protocol will enable Ukraine to join the world’s biodiversity conservation capabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u21	Thank you. The word is given to the coreporter, to the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and to the interparliamentary cooperation of Alexander Alexandrovich Netezka. Please, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation at its meeting on 3 November 2021, discussed the draft Law on the ratification of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the fair and equitable distribution of benefits from their use before the Convention on Biological Diversity and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted on a basis and as a whole. The goal of the Nagoya Protocol is a fair and equitable distribution of benefits from the use of genetic resources, including by ensuring adequate access to genetic resources and the proper transfer of appropriate technologies, taking into account all rights to these resources and to technology, and by providing adequate funding, thus contributing to the conservation of biodiversity and the continued use of its components. The Nagoya Protocol also applies to traditional knowledge related to genetic resources. The adoption of this draft law for Ukraine, as countries with rich natural resources, will promote integration into international rules and procedures for the use of genetic resources and a fair and equitable distribution of benefits and will encourage the conservation of natural resources as a source of income and improvement of the human environment. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, does not object to the possibility of adopting the project. So, colleagues, please support the committee's decision and adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u23	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear colleagues, please sign up to discuss this issue: two in favour, two in favour, against, please. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of Sheepskin Yulia Yuriyovni, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u24	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's a very important ratification, it's essential for integration, it's important for biodiversity in European and research space, in most cases Ukraine has chosen a Green Deal integration vector, so we're ratifying a very important document that gives data to genetic information, a floral, phounistic character that will allow quality to develop a legislative base for biodiversity conservation, and implement the best practices in our national strategy for biodiversity conservation, which is now in the early stages of development. Moreover, our team and the ministry team were integrated into the development of this strategy at European level. And that's what all the most famous environmental communities, environmental sites are talking about, about the data we need, both for the research space and for the space of people working with biological materials. It's an interdisciplinary question about the education, the scientific sphere, the sphere of biology, the ecology to have all the reliable data and to shape our policies qualitatively in the context of biodiversity conservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u25	Thank you. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, it's very good that we've come up with ratifications that relate to extremely important topics in today's world -- the topic of ecology, the preservation of diversity, well, and, in fact, Ukraine's approach to a civilized world, to Euro-integration. And you know, I think the entire session hall is still impressed by yesterday's Zelensky performance. For the first time in eight years in the President's speech, the word "Eurointegration" never came out. For the first time in eight years, the President's speech didn't say "NATO." Today the theme of climate, the topic of environmental conservation, is key to the leaders of the world, to the leaders of today. This is what the President of the United States, the President of France, the Prime Minister of Britain, is dedicated to. This is the first time we've heard a speech by the President of Ukraine, unfortunately, where for the first time we haven't heard topics that are topical and topical. For the first time, the topic of ecology had never been discussed. For the first time, we have a president of ignorance who doesn't even know how many years of Ukrainian diplomacy. During his pre-performance, he stated that Ukrainian diplomacy would be 30 years old, and that is why everyone should be brought to Gutu. For the first time, we have a President who doesn't know that Ukrainian diplomacy was 100 years old in 2018. For the first time, we have a President who hasn't committed himself to the topic of the key two powers of the President -- that's the subject of security and diplomacy, actually. And for the first time, we have a president who lied, lied, lied, and lied. For the first time, we have a President who doesn't do environmental work at all. Therefore, it is clear that our team, for which the topic of Euro-integration, the topic of ecology, the topic of bringing Ukrainian legislation closer to EU standards is important and will support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u27	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Burmić Anatoly Petrovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u28	Please pass the word to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u29	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, it is certainly wonderful that we are now in great pain for the preservation of our diversity, our beech trees, our leaves, it is all good, but let's think about preserving the diversity of our people, especially those who are dying on Donbassa today. Because not only do we have direct losses of several thousand people, but we still have the average number of children to be born. Because those who have died will no longer be able to do so, to give their offspring. So now our faction demands that Parliament begin to study immediately the initiatives that both Victor Medvedchuk and Yuri Boyk and Rabbinovich have been agreed upon in Paris, Berlin, Moscow, and Lugansk and Donetsk. These bills are registered in the Council, and they are perfectly consistent with the set of actions for the implementation of the Minsk Accords. Please, we've given our vision, it's got understanding between our partners and our counterparties. Let's unite, let's do one main thing: peace. And the leaves and beeches are of course important, and the 86,000 people who died from COVID, what happened to them, it doesn't matter? So by hurting for beets and leaves, I'm asking for Ukrainian authority, I understand that you're green, you're attracted to everything green, you want to keep it -- either you want to keep the leaves, or you want to keep the green dollars. But please keep people safe, think about people, because you are servants of the people, not dollars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u31	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Bakunets.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u32	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! This is clearly an important ratification. The Nagoya Protocol will allow us to clearly follow the best practices of genetic resources, and I think it will enable us to improve our knowledge and skills in both biology and ecology. Today, however, when voting on the budget for the following year, we need to take into account our internal increase in the financing of ecology, ecology at both genetic and environmental levels: conservation of forests, conservation of water, and clearly replacement of clean-up facilities for all emerging communities, and replacement of water lines. So we need to increase funding under the Drinking Water Program of Ukraine for the next year and give our communities the opportunity to take advantage of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please Klimenko Julia Leonidivna. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, of course, biodiversity is very important, and we will support this bill. But what I'm saying is that ecology and Green Deal, part of which is Ukraine, are not just about biodiversity, but about the diversity of business, about the diversity of our citizens. At a conference in Glasgow, the Ukrainian delegation consisted of 50 government officials. Please tell us what results for Ukraine of the climate conference, what conditions did you agree on and so forth? So I ask our government to come to the conference room and explain how Ukraine will exist after 2030, what taxes our business will pay to export to Europe as well as to other countries. Because the outcome of this conference and what it signed, and under which it was signed, is still not understood by any MP in this room, nor by any citizen. We have to understand how much we want.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. Does anyone else want to speak? We can move on to making a decision, right? Dear colleagues, then I make the proposal that the committee concludes to adopt as a whole the draft Law on the Ratification of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and a fair and equitable distribution of benefits from their use to the Convention on Biological Diversity. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? You're ready, aren't you? Please vote. [[10:36:43]] For 291 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues. Your Honourable colleagues, if I may, for 10 minutes, I will ask you, before we go into the next question, the heads of the factions come up here for a moment, into the presidency, and the rest of you don't want to part, because we're going into the state budget of Ukraine for the next year. Please proceed to the Presidium for 5-10 minutes. Dear colleagues, there was a small meeting of faction leaders and groups, such a small consensus board. And together, we want to offer you this solution. Now we're going to change the order of the day. And there's this proposal: now it's the first. So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to consider quickly now, without discussion, we agreed, 6273, this is about Ukrennergo, right? Excuse me, this is a draft law amending chapter X of the Final and Transitional Regulations. "Public Procurement" about the features of the negotiation procedure. We agreed to vote on it without discussion. After that, we immediately enter the budget. After that, we will consider 6342, this is the inclusion in the agenda of the day's reduction of terms and the consideration and adoption of a decision on the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Districts of Donetsk and Lugansk. And then let's go to 6298, 6297. But we will work on these issues. And after these questions, we'll close the plenary session. Do you understand, Your Honor? Dear colleagues, please take your jobs. And once again, the proposal that was made. Change the subject of today's agenda and now without discussion consider 6273, actually vote for it. Let's move on to the budget. After the budget was 6342, then 6298, then 6297. And at the end of the day, until this very issue 6297 is exhausted, complete today's work. Dear colleagues, are you ready to support such an offer? [[B in m in s a l in]] Again. Well, we agreed with faction leaders. So, your honors, please take your seats, this is the proposal for a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ah, you want to discuss it, don't you? One second. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the procedure – Dmitri Alexandrovich Razumkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Ruslan Alexiyovich, the budget on Monday was no statement for consideration at this plenary week. That's the first one. The other one. People's deputies received a budget yesterday at eight o'clock. The committee was sitting at half past four, and the conclusion was only in the morning. We are adopting the most important law under which the entire nation will live next year. This is the responsibility of the entire parliament, all the national deputies of Ukraine. Let's go so we can understand what we're voting for, not for a cat in a bag. And you don't have to tell me we don't have time. We have another plenary week on which we can quietly consider the budget, accept it in a balanced way, understanding what people will vote for, for which national MPs will vote, and understanding all the indicators that are set there. Let us not play with the serious challenges facing the state today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u37	Thank you. I just want to remind you that on the Conciliation Council there was a proposal that, once the committee had considered it, it would be immediately introduced into the Hall. And this proposal was approved on the Conciliation Council. This time. Secondly, this is the established practice of all parliaments and all of them, let's say, times. And the third. What I do think is that the primary task of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to adopt the budget. And for that, we can sit as long as it takes, because it's a state resource for the next year. Thank you, Your Honor. So I'm going to move on to this proposal, and I'm going to do it again. It's a general offer. It's 6273 first. We shall vote without discussion. Then we go into the state budget -- 6,000. Next, 6342 after the budget. And then there are two more bills under the budget: 6298, 6297. And then we close today's plenary session. Don't you agree, colleagues? Please support such an offer. [[10:49:45.]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. So right now, we're moving right now, just like we agreed, without discussion. I bet it's under Bill 6273 to adopt the draft Law amending Chapter X of the Act on Public Procurement (Registration No. 6273). That's right, that's right, we take this bill as a basis. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[10:50:38]] For 279 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we accept it in general? We can't, can we? Can we narrow it down? Come on. I'm making an offer. Dear colleagues, is there a denial to be accepted in general? "Paternity," right, denies it? Dear colleagues, if there is a objection, then I make a proposal in accordance with part two of Rule 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure to vote on the proposal to shorten the deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments and to prepare for the second reading of Bill No. 6273, this is the draft Act amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement on the features of the procurement negotiation procedure. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:51:46]] For 260 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Now let's go to what we've been talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act of 2022 (Registration No. 6000), second reading. In accordance with the Rules, the next order of action is proposed. The report of the Minister of Finance on the completed budget conclusions of the 2022 Supreme Council of the draft budget, up to 15 minutes; the responses of the Minister of Finance to the questions of the National Deputies, up to 9 minutes; the report by the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on budgetary issues on the inclusion of the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council in the budget preparation for the second reading, up to 5 minutes. Afterwards, statements by representatives of MPs and groups – up to 21 minutes (five factions and two groups – three minutes each). Then the national MPs will speak for up to 9 minutes (3 minutes to perform). And then let's move on to making a decision. Arthur Volodymyrovich, please, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u38	Honourable Ruslan Alexiyovich, according to the Supreme Council Rules, should also be discussed after a report by the head of the profile committee. The discussion must include questions from national deputies. So please add at least nine minutes of questions to the head of the profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u39	Okay. I agree, let's add then, yes. Dear colleagues, if such a proposal is accepted by such regulations, is it not? Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question. Ukraine’s Finance Minister, Sergey Mihajlovich Marchenko, is invited to report. Sergey Mikhailovich, you'll be out in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u40	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs! The 2022 State Budget project is a very important document. But before we start presenting the draft State Budget for second reading, I will say a few words about the trends in the world and their impact on the economy of Ukraine and the budget of 2022. This information is extremely important, so I would like your attention. Since the preparation of the draft budget, there have been major changes in the macroeconomic assumptions view and the main trends and risks that will affect the budget next year. First of all, it's a continuation of the effects of the COVID pandemic and the emergence of new strains of coronary disease. As a result, the possibility of introducing new lockdowns and quarantine restrictions is slowing down economic growth. This applies not only to Ukraine, but to the whole world. COVID demonstrates the full weakness of today’s world when each country is virtually struggling with this threat and its consequences. Secondly, a trend in recent years that will determine the prospects of 2022 is a significant increase in the role of the state in the economy. This, in particular, is characterized by an increase in budget deficits in leading countries, which sometimes reach between 10 and 14 percent of gross domestic product. Over the past 60 years, the role of the State in the economy has been the highest. However, there is a difference between having such policies in developed countries and developing countries, to which Ukraine refers, it is a practice of double standards: what others are allowed is not allowed. Thirdly, we cannot help but worry about the prospect of rising interest rates in international markets that will affect the cost of involving resources in Ukraine. The reason is an unprecedentedly high level of inflation in countries around the world. In the United States, for example, 6.2 percent is the highest in 30 years. In Britain, 4.2 percent is the highest in 10 years. In Euros countries, 4.9 percent, historically the highest since 1997. The reason for this level of inflation is debated, but it's clear that this is the influence of COVID, the disorder in the world supply chains, the shortage of labour and skilled personnel in particular sectors of the economy. The next trend and cause of inflation is the high cost of traditional energy in the world. This is happening in the background of the global transition to green energy and will determine the budgetary perspectives of Ukraine in 2020 and the years ahead. Because once again we have to solve our own problems on our own, including by increasing taxes on industries that are polluting the environment, this is exactly what Bill 5600 is about. There is also a consensus in the world on the minimum tax for international corporations, the introduction of transfer pricing, the need to exchange tax information, these are tax trends that will also determine the basis of tax policy for the coming years. Another trend is population ageing. Over the past 40 years, the population has doubled over the age of 65. The World Bank’s financial forecast for the world’s economy by 2050 shows that the pension system’s unsustainability will amount to $40.400 trillion. This challenge needs to be addressed urgently. So now there's a need for a pension reform to be carried out at the second level of accumulation. Information about the threat of military incursion by the Russian Federation also affects the cost and prospects of Ukraine’s borrowing. This situation also has a negative impact on the investment climate. The next trend is the external trend in 2022 compared to 2021. One of China’s largest economies is slowing down. This affects Ukraine. It's a big market for domestic exports. It's already being stored in China. Overheating in the real estate market is observed, and the increase in gross domestic product in 2022 is forecast to be the lowest in 30 years. At the same time, challenges and threats are new opportunities to increase economic growth and strengthen Ukraine's role in the international market. That's why we've taken these trends into account in preparing the State Budget project for second reading. As a result of the drafting of the Supreme Council's conclusions and proposals for the 2022 State Budget project, a balanced and realistic draft of the State's main financial instrument has been prepared by the government. The priorities that have been set by the President, the Supreme Council and the government have been preserved. This is: increasing medical salaries; housing for ATO veterans; increasing scholarships for students; increasing spending on inclusive education and unchallengedness; continuing to digitize the country and prepare for the entire population census; developing infrastructure; providing security and defence sector needs. The 2022 budget is an investment in a person, a country, a future. It was the investment component that concentrated the efforts of the Ministry of Finance, Government, and National Deputies in the second reading of the budget. The result was a record increase in capital expenditure of 30.5 billion dollars, up to $140.2 billion. Their drinking weight in the cost of the budget increased to 9.4 percent. This is the highest score in ten years. The revenue of the State budget for the second reading is estimated at 1 trillion 332 billion dollars. Expenses are 1 trillion 521 billion dollars. The deficit limit was saved at 3.5 percent of GDP, as agreed with our international partners. With regard to the comings of the general fund of the State budget, there is an increase in wages for the use of nadram and natural gas and oil for 24 billion dollars, a tax for the income of the enterprise for 21 billion dollars, a domestic VAT for 13 billion dollars, an import VAT for 6.5 billion dollars, an excise tax for 2.7 billion dollars, an environmental tax for 1.7 billion dollars. At the same time, the general fund reduced the estimate of income from the income of natural persons by 11 billion dollars according to a memorandum signed with local government authorities on addressing issues in the field of heating, clarifying the amount of funds to be budgeted by the National Bank of Ukraine. It's about the extra part. More than 3,000 bids for a record amount of over 86 trillion dollars were made by national deputies, factions, groups, and committees to the 2022 State Budget Project. Clearly, this figure is unrealistic. So the Ministry of Finance came from an additional resource that could be accumulated next year. The increase in expenditure was mainly due to investment in various areas and measures aimed at supporting citizens and businesses. In particular, it is suggested that some 25 billion dollars be added to the infrastructure. 9 billion dollars is an infrastructure subsidy, costs will be directed towards the reconstruction and construction of new health and education facilities, sports venues and sports palaces; 4.4 billion dollars for the development of airport infrastructure and the creation of a national air carrier; 4.3 billion bracelets to support rail transport: purchase of passenger cars and electricity; 1.1 billion dollars is the provision of State border infrastructure to ensure proper entry/exit conditions for temporarily occupied areas; 900 million dollars to develop the tourist infrastructure of national natural parks and reserves; More than 8 billion dollars will be directed towards the development of individual sectors of the economy, including 3 billion dollars will be directed towards the payment of certificates (one thousand dollars) to the vaccinated population in order to support business from the COVID pandemic; 1 billion dollars to offset interest rates on credit and licensing contracts in the area of machine-building; 1 billion dollars for the reconstruction and restoration of the melioration systems; 1 billion bracelets for the implementation of the state-wide Drinkwater programme; 400 million dollars for technical refurbishment and modernization of state coal enterprises; There are additional 400 million dollars available to stimulate industrial parks; 200 million dollars for the creation of creative industry centres; to start the work of the partial loan guarantee fund in agriculture -- 200 million dollars. Continuing the priority of health care, increasing health spending to 3.1 billion dollars: 2 billion dollars to increase the pay of non-medical health workers to minimum standards by decree of the President of Ukraine; 300 million dollars to provide highly specialized medical care, to purchase medical supplies; 244 million dollars to centrally procure medical equipment; 100 million dollars to pay medical workers in connection with the move to a new job and retraining. The estimated additional expenditure of 2 billion dollars for education and science: more than 500 million dollars will be spent on education facilities by textbooks; 400 million dollars for the establishment of the Presidential University; 150 million dollars for the implementation of the Health Ukraine programme; 145 million dollars for the development of the material and technical base of educational institutions; 200 million dollars for scientific research by scientific institutions; 190 million dollars for the development of the scientific infrastructure of the National Library of Ukraine. The amount of money for physical culture and sports has increased by 1 billion: 150 million dollars for sports complexes for Eurobasket; 720 million dollars for the development and development of Olympic training bases; 100 million dollars for the pilot project "Social Development and Rehabilitation of Children with Disabilities". In addition, 5 billion dollars are provided to support culture, namely: 2.8 billion dollars for the renovation and restoration of cultural monuments and the development of state-owned facilities under the Great Restoration project; 1 billion dollars to support the film industry; 183 million dollars to support bookkeeping and the promotion of Ukrainian literature; and 100 million dollars to create cultural services centres. An increase of 1.8 billion dollars is planned for digitization. With the aim of supporting local self - government authorities with a capacity index of less than 0.9 billion dollars. Again, this is about the implementation of a memorandum signed with local self-government authorities. National security and defence spending, which is an extremely important priority, is also significantly increased by 3.7 billion dollars compared to the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Finance has considered your proposals as much as possible, based on the real potential of the budget and the forecast of economic development, the trends, the threats and risks that I mentioned in the first part of my speech. The 2022 State Budget project is the result of a concerted cooperation between the government, the national deputies, and the President of Ukraine. We have taken the development priorities of Ukraine into account in the medium term. The budget envisions investing taxpayers' money in the future of our country, a successful, prosperous state. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u41	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the national deputies to sign up for a question. The word is given to national deputy Kachuri Alexandr Anatolyyevich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u42	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Please tell me, how much does the subsistence minimum increase for the following year? Because really that minimum of living is budgeted, it's not a minimum of living, it's not even viable. We have a bill that we've worked with colleagues that actually makes a living minimum for those who can survive. So I'd like to hear what your priorities are. Will there also be an increase in the subsistence minimum for the following year? And what is your view as the minister of finance that this is a huge gap between the real and nominal minimum of living? I think that now all Ukrainian citizens want to hear it because it is all about pensions, social benefits, scholarships, child care, and so forth. Because that minimum of living that the government is setting up is actually fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the question of the delimitation of the actual and nominal size of the subsistence minimum has long been ripe. And thanks to the Committee on Social Policy, in active cooperation with the Committee, we will be ready to work out the necessary changes to legislation. At this point in time, the subsistence minimum laid down by legislation is set at a single person’s size of 2 thousand 508 bracelets. For children between the ages of 5 and 18, 2 thousand 744 bracelets. There's been an increase in the cost of living, inflation plus 2 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u44	Please, National Deputy of Ukraine, Petty Officer Olena Volodymyrna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u45	Please pass the word to Kowalczuk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u46	Alexander Kowalczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u47	Kowalczuk Alexander, "Slut of the People" faction, Equinox. Mr. Minister, literally yesterday from this great rostrum, the President of Ukraine spoke of the fact that the following year, in principle, like this year, will be an extension of the year of medicine. And this is a very important job for all medical professionals and for all Ukrainians, it's about raising wages to 20,000 bracelets for medical personnel. That's the first question. Are these funds foreordained, and will we be able to fulfill this promise? And the second question is about a thousand bracelets as an incentive factor for those who still hesitate to inject themselves or not. Because we all understand that the only way to protect us, the Ukrainians, and Ukraine is to vaccinate. Thank you. So two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. Indeed, all the tasks assigned to the government by the President of Ukraine, including through appropriate decrees, the increase in the salaries of health workers in the budget has been fully accomplished. There is sufficient resources available for the target, and an additional amount of expenditure has been increased by 34 billion dollars for the health guarantees programme compared to this year. This is a record amount of money, never before in Ukrainian medicine had such resources. In addition, between the first and the second readings, we thoroughly revised the draft medical budget, including an increase of more than 3 billion dollars in health care. Individual health - care facilities, which are not in the health - care system, will also receive an increase in the wages that are foreseen. In part of the thousands of dollars the funds are projected, I've already pointed out, there's a special program in the budget for 2022 and there's a expectation that you'll support the changes to the 2021 budget project in terms of directing citizens' funds that have been dumped to support vulnerable sectors of the economy, and that's why they are. For the next year, the sum is 3 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u49	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Jamilev Mustafa, please the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u51	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u52	According to the ORP, this year security and defence sector funding is expected to reach 319 billion dollars, currently only 286. In doing so, only 152 billion are allocated to the Ministry of Defence, which is critically insufficient, but the funding of such structures as the D.B.I., the Public Prosecutor's Office and so on is increasing. Where's the rest of the money for the Ministry of Defense? The following year there will be again debts owed to military personnel, the failure of WHO. And don't you think it's worth taking money out of repressive organs now, excessive funds, and handing it over to the military? And the second question. Why spend 500 million dollars on an unexistent and unsuspecting Presidential University? Is it not better to direct these funds, especially to pay teachers who are so poor that it is simply impossible to work for such money and to raise decent young people?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question. Security and Defense Sector. In the following year, the projected expenditure before the first reading was 319 billion dollars, between the first and the second readings, we noted that the amount of defence and security spending had been increased to an additional amount of over 3 billion dollars. Therefore, we believe that all the commitments that are currently being made in the state of Ukraine to the military are an opportunity to be fulfilled. There's an opportunity to raise the military's money. That is why I believe that we have fully fulfilled our obligations in this part. In terms of cost-orientation, we both ensure that teachers pay and other priority programs are implemented. Thus, for the following year, an additional 17 billion dollars are available for the education grant in order to increase teachers ’ salaries. At the same time, it is determined that in the coming years, the educational sector will be a new priority, which will be a clear priority for the next year. So in 2023, the education sector will find additional support, an additional budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u54	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u56	Sophia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u57	The Honourable Minister confuses the security and defence sectors and the Armed Forces of Ukraine, thus confusing teachers and teachers. But I do have the following questions. The amount of subsidies has not changed, although even this year there has been an increase in the amount of subsidies. We require, in particular, and do you consider it necessary, to simplify Ukrainian access to subsidies, to remove absurd subsidies restrictions and to allocate at least 55 billion dollars for subsidies in the 22nd year in order to adequately protect against rising gas prices and inevitably increase tariffs in general. Why is this not done? And the question is, how is it planned to compensate local communities for the increase in tariffs? The cost of these needs is to be removed from the "stolen" and through subsidies, not from the corruption specialist, and to direct them to the communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u58	Thank you for asking. The Minister of Finance doesn't confuse anything. The Ministry of Defence has a substantial resource for the following year. In particular, it's an amount of money. The defences are close, more than 130 billion dollars. According to other chief supervisors, the General Intelligence Directorate, the State Department, the Ministry of Defense and Security is also the defence and security sector that we are counting in general in this sector. Your question about subsidies. Thank you, national deputies, for supporting the increase in subsidies for 2021. As I pointed out in my previous report, in presenting this project, this amount will be earmarked, including for the advance of grants in 2022. Nine out of the twelve billion dollars that have been foreseen for this year’s changes are part of the program. We think the cost of the heating season 2021-2022 is more than enough. If there is a need for further increases, we can return to this issue by the end of last year. At this point, our calculations show that the cost is sufficient. And all the citizens, all the citizens of Ukraine who have the right to receive subsidies, get them. There are no problems and no disruptions in the payment of subsidies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u59	Thank you. We finished the discussion. Please, Minister, take your place. The report invites the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of Yuri Yuriovich Aristov. Please, Yuri Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u60	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national deputies, invited! The Cabinet of Ministers revised the State Budget Bill for the year 2022 until the second reading. We got it on December 1st, which is a later date. This delay is mainly due to the anticipated adoption of the 5600 Amendments to the Tax Code as a whole. This enabled the government to increase the revenue portion of the state budget for the following year. However, according to article 159 of the Rules, the State Budget Act is to be adopted by the Supreme Council by December 1. In view of this and in accordance with the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council at the Conciliation Council, the Committee on Budget Affairs, with the participation of the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, immediately considered the amended bill. Having examined the state of government's accounting for the Supreme Council's budgetary conclusions, I would like to point out the following. For part one of the budget conclusions. Of the 16 proposals, 12. Considered in part one and not including three proposals. As for part two of the Budget Conclusions. Of the 186 assignments, 32. Partly 42 are counted and 112 are not counted. In summary, the budget committee proposes to make separate balanced changes to the bill agreed with the Ministry of Finance. In particular, increase public investment spending by 500 million dollars to complete the investment projects launched: diagnosis and treatment of diseases at the National Cancer Institute by 300 million dollars; conduct of the International Olympics at the Small Academy of Sciences; and implement a scientific and technical space program. In conclusion, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council an amended bill of 6,000 to be adopted on second reading and as a whole as a law, taking into account the financial proposals of the Committee, which are agreed upon by the Ministry of Finance. Please support the committee's decision. To conclude, I would like to point out that, given the financial capacity of the State, the budget cannot meet all the needs. Yet it is realistic in today’s conditions and is essential for the country’s and every region’s successive development. The timely adoption of the State Budget will be an impetus for the approval of all local budgets and the proper organization of their implementation next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u61	Thank you. You're done, aren't you? Dear colleagues, if you'd like to sign up for a question to the reporter, please. Please, National Deputy Fedina Sofia Romanovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u62	Please indicate the need for an increase of 550 million dollars from the National Police General Fund, reducing the financing of airport infrastructure by 250 billion, reducing the implementation of infrastructure projects by 300 million? And this is because already in the first reading of the IMF budget, there's an increase of 1 billion dollars. So it looks like you're going to fund Zelensky's protection as much as possible from his people, instead of funding measures to combat Putin and external aggression.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u63	Thank you guys for asking. The criticism of the President of Ukraine, who is stressed by the opposition when he spends a lot of money on infrastructure projects, says otherwise.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u64	Please report to the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u65	Yes, yes, wait. By reducing 500 million infrastructure projects, we have been able to finance those who are today protecting peace in our streets. Today's IMF needs 9 billion dollars to level the wages of all chains. Unfortunately, we cannot take into account all the needs, so we counted only 500 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u66	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u67	Please pass the word to Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u68	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u69	Tell me, please, I'm looking at an increase in the income portion of the budget for tax revenue in the form of a revenue tax of 21.1 billion. It's the result of yesterday's 5,600 or the day before, that's how many billions of businesses are going to pay for their losses. But if you have another explanation, give me a plus 21 billion. I want you to explain the next number. Rent for the use of state-wide dramas of 24.7 billion plus. What kind of rent have you calculated here because iron ore is exactly 200 million dollars? It's also for the whole of Ukraine to hear what an antioligarchi draft of Law 5600 was. So that's the revenue line.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u70	Thank you for asking me, my dear fellows. I agree with you that in Minfin's calculations, the basis lies in Bill 5600, and, well, in my personal opinion, to fill the budget, we're going to be steps to detinct tax payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u71	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Bragar Eugene Vadimovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u72	Bragar Eugene Vadimovich, "Serial of the People" faction. Please hand over to my colleague by faction, the leader of the party, Oleni Schuljak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u73	Olena Schuljak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u74	Olena Shulak, faction of the political party "Slut of the People." Dear Mr. Aristov, I have a question for the next one. On October 1, 2021, a memorandum was signed, if you remember, at the local government convention signed by Naftogaz, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, regarding the fact that the price of gas tariffs would not change for the population. Is there a budget for the communities for the 21st year of such tariffs? Will all the arrangements found in this great memorandum be fulfilled? That's the first question. And second, please, if possible, tell us in detail what programmes in the 22nd year's revised budget for Ukrainian citizens are foreseen.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u75	Dear colleague, thank you for asking. Yes, the communities were waiting for additional budget transfers to appear in the draft budget. in the PFC budgets – 4 per cent. Yes, it's in the budget. But I'm stressing that for the general budget of the state budget, it's a lot of money for everyone to understand, it's 11 billion dollars. Also, the offer of Mr. Head of the Klock Committee to compensate the incompetent communities to go through the heating season is 1.5 billion extra -- compensation. Unfortunately, I can’t answer about the program.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u76	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Kubbit Yuri Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u77	Thank you. Please pass the word to Ustenku Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u78	Alexi Ustenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u79	Good afternoon! Alexius Ustenko, "Serial of the People" faction. Mr. Reporter, that's a question for you, if we have one. We saw in the budget of the 21st year that we had a constant budget overhaul, we had a tax recast, a slight redefinition at the customs office. Please tell me, if next year we also have a re-establishment of the state budget, where are we going to spend the money? And the second question. Yesterday, the president announced a program for the cheap lending of 5 percent to buy housing, electric cars or, for example, education or change of profession. Please tell me, is there any work on the budget committee on this program yet, and is it planned to put money into the program next year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u80	Thank you for asking. We expect, as in 2021, to be reinstated, because, as I have already pointed out, not all the necessary expenses have been taken into account. According to our European colleagues, we have little investment in capital costs, we need to increase the costs of everyone. And the President's Big Construction program is giving us the results that our partners expect of us today. The Ukrafinling program (I don't remember what it's called) is now in the Ministry of Economics and its launch will be in 2022. For example, how Acts 1 worked in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which proved to be very fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u81	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Ion's Maria Mikolayovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u83	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u84	Look, I don't want you to share a cat in a bag, first. And second of all, I don't want you to abuse low-level budget plans. What remake are you talking about? Growth in the economy is zero, the absolute decline in the capacity and capacity of our producers of all Ukrainian goods. But you're adding a few tens of billions to the revenue line. Please explain 63.6 tax revenue, 63 billion is added extra between the first and the second readings – what is it? I agree with the conclusion of the Court of Auditors that you are always underestimating your arrival. But to that extent, listen, taxpayers, 21 billion, over 21 billion is a profit tax. Where's your profit in 2021? I told you, 1341 payers are a great payer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u85	Dear Nina Petrovna! I agree that both the Ministry of Finance and the Committee of Budget need to work in 2022 so that you do not have any questions in the next discussion. But let me remind you that tax calculations are the Ministry of Finance's prerogative.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u86	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the reports from the main rapporteurs, and we thank them. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the speeches from the MP factions and groups. The factions and groups please sign up for the performance. The word is given by Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyevich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues and distinguished voters! The budget was certainly changed between the first and the second readings. But it's still a new loan budget, an antisocial budget absolutely, well, and it's definitely another year's budget, second year in a row, a record deficit. See, a completely inadequate macro-predictive result is an inadequacy, for example, of an inflation index with an increase in minimum income. So let me start by saying that, for example, we have a minimum wage of 6,500, which is going to increase by just 3.2 percent. Whatever your inflation is, 8, 10 percent or more, it's still less. And that means that people with minimum fixed income, who get the minimum wage, and that's not 6,500, that's even if taxes and congregations are excluded, the figure is going to be much lower. The level of purchasing power of such citizens will be much lower. One second. The minimum pension, the minimum cost of living over the year, will increase by 8.2 percent. The numbers are extremely funny. Look, in dollars, the living minimum is 88 dollars, 88 dollars, although in 2013 it was 147 dollars. The minimum pension is 71 dollars, although in 2013 it was 119. I'm bringing in 2013 not because the President compared the status comparison base of 2013 yesterday, but because the level of purchasing power and capacity of the population has decreased significantly. At least compare the tenfold increase in housing and utilities tariffs, heating tariffs, gas prices, not tariffs, and so on and so forth. Next, one more moment, a record loan. I told you first, you borrow twice as much in the budget as your predecessors, although they also borrowed a lot. 571 billion dollars you're borrowing next year. It's an extremely high figure, it's leading to an increase in government and state-guaranteed debt. Among other things, it's about debt. When they came, the holding was $81.9 billion -- now almost 93. So you took over $10 billion plus for this small period of time. That's where the numbers come from. And as for that antisocial policy, it's only 38 billion dollars when the price of gas, the cost of utilities and the charge for these services is raised. These are low figures, although we had 55 billion before two years, and 71 billion dollars. So, from this point of view, this budget is antisocial, you can't vote for it. I believe that those who retransmit such content should resign for this inability to offer the future to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u88	The word is given to National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, the Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, the country cannot run out of budget and it is very important today to vote on this procedure today. Why do we support this bill? Because we understand that many of the social issues that exist in the country need to be addressed. What does this budget give us? On our own terms, the MPs' Party for the Future group, we've asked key questions that really bother people in places, that worry every community. This is an investment fund for building sports objects, for building children's buildings (schools, gardens), for practical socio-economic development programs, for investment programs in the budget about 15 to 17 billion in different sections, and these are very important funds for each community. The budget is, according to our statement, at our insistence, the cost of Drinking Water. It's almost a billion people going into every community today, every village, and we know what a pressing problem today is for many population centres in rural areas. The budget provides for the cost of raising salaries in hospitals to doctors who are now working ahead and struggling with this pandemic called COVID. The budget provides for the cost of powerful infrastructure programs. These are roads, these are some of the industrial programs that relate to the revival of the Railroad, you know how many problems there are today. These are other big businesses that really need state attention and support today, this is Turbot, Electrician. And including that bill that we voted in the first reading literally before this law, it reaffirms once again that there is really more or less understanding with Kabmin about what we need to think about both industry and other programs. We realize that there are some shortcomings that will need to be corrected in the first quarter changes. What we've said over and over again is that there should be a powerful energy conservation program. To do that, they would have to allocate at least 7 to 10 billion dollars to enable Ukraine to get out of the post-Radians energy system, and have a powerful modernization, the warming of all budgetary institutions, children's institutions (plants, schools), utilities, heating facilities, and the cost of gas consumption, electricity at least 30 to 40 percent. This should be a program, taking into account the situation in which the country today finds itself in the area of gas and electricity. Other programs that have to be accounted for the same way, I think the sum of both quarters will be accounted for. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u90	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich, a faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u91	Yvchenko. Please pass the word to your colleague Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u92	Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u93	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Do you know what the budget is for the country and for every citizen who is currently watching the Supreme Council meeting, where the country's main financial document is being considered? It's a question for people how they're going to live next year. And if, according to sociological surveys, 70 percent of Ukrainian citizens have said that they have been living worse in the last year, not better, what should be the target of the budget? The budget should be aimed at resolving acute social issues and improving the lives of every Ukrainian. Instead, let's look at the amendments made by the Fatherland faction to the budget and what is in the budget instead. If the Fatherland faction has shown that there are actually an additional 160 billion dollars that can be included in the income portion of the budget and instead spend these costs on increasing the minimum pensions, the minimum subsistence minimum, helping poor people, subsidies that people need that are not enough. So when we analyze the budget that's given for the second reading, unfortunately, none of these proposals are included. I would like to point out that the size of the subsistence minimum proposed for 2022 does not cover even half the actual size of the subsistence minimum at the price of October 2021 per person per month. It is to be according to the State 4 000 389 dollars, and with the mandatory payment of 5,000 27 dollars, and for the working person 4 000 571 dollars. What do we see in the budget? And we can see that it's not reaching, this livelihood minimum, even 44 percent. So people get a minimum pension, and even according to the state itself, they're not going to spend a month, but less than half a month for 13 days is going to have to be enough to buy food. That's what this budget is about. The second question is the question of subsidies. You remember last year, when we were looking at the budget, we warned that budgeting was not enough until the end of the year. That's enough by August, and then we fought heroically in this room, just as the Fatherland demanded, and we added a grant in 2021. Let's see 2022 that they're offering. They're offering to add 39 billion to the grant, and we still realize that in September we're going to go back to the question of returning subsidies. Considering that this bill of the State Budget Act is, in our opinion, totally antisocial, we see over 200 billion dollars of holes in the Pension Fund, and nothing is done about it. Considering that social standards, wages for people, minimum pensions are not increasing at all, and from 1 January to 80, this budget will increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u94	The word is given to national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u95	Please hand it over to Olga Stefanishini, the Justice Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u96	The word is given to Olga Stefanishini, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u97	Olga Stefanishin, “Justice. ” Recently, a man in his 60 ’ s, a heart problem, approached my colleague Roman Lozinski. In one of the Kyiv hospitals, he was billed for 400,000 dollars in surgery. At the age of 60, he worked his entire life as an ambulance driver, his wife has a feldsher. Of course, the family does not have such funds and the state will not help them either. Because in the U.S. budget, there is a huge deficit of about 100 billion dollars a year. Of course, this year the Ministry of Finance proposes to increase the medical budget slightly for the following year. But that's not enough. According to the legislation, 5 percent of GDP is to be allocated to the health guarantees programme, no less. Today, when we saw the documents, we realized that there were not even three. I personally amended the medical guarantees programme (this is the program from which we all receive medical care) to provide 268 billion dollars, as provided by the Ukrainian Law. Unfortunately, however, the Supreme Council commissioned the government to find these funds, but the government did not find them. And now there's only 157 billion dollars. Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky decreed that the following year our doctors will receive higher wages. That's not going to happen, because even to raise wages, as the President said, it takes 165 billion dollars. Let me remind you, it's 157 now. Fellows, I understand that you're not all listening to me here because you have the ability to treat abroad, to pay a lot of money. But 20 percent of Ukrainians have catastrophic expenses when they get a disease. So they sell apartments, they take debts, or they just die because they can't pay for medical care. I would very much ask the government of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, to put medicine first. Neither the roads nor the services of other offices and ministries, for today it is medicine that must take precedence. Unfortunately, I can't personally vote for this kind of budget because it's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u98	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Polack Vladislav Mikolajovich, MP of "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u99	Please pass the word to Bakuncu Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u100	Paul Andriovich Bakunec, please, the "Trust" MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u101	Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, today the attention of the entire society is attached to Parliament, because we accept the country's main financial document, the budget for the next 2022. And of course, it's expected by everyone, because it organizes all the layers of our population: the average inhabitants, the entrepreneurs, and especially the newly created communities. And of course, I'm going to start by thanking the department for the quality of this final version of the budget project, and thank you to the committee for doing well, especially in the last few days, this work should be marked positively. However, the high perfection of the final budget document itself is not at issue; there has always been, there will be, and there will be currently, a deficit, and many areas in our country are systematically underfunded, and the budget next year is critical of it. But you and I need to understand that if you don't split the funds, there will always be a shortage of them, and some of them will be underfunded. And so you have to balance it right, but you have to criticize the budget in general and not accept it, it's totally wrong, because without a budget, a country can't live, and even an imperfect budget is much better than a complete absence. Today, we are being watched by both the leaders and the deputies of all levels of local communities, and they are also waiting for what is being prepared for them in this budget. So I want to celebrate the positive, especially on the eve of local self-government, and welcome the real move of the Supreme Council, the Ministry of Profiles to meet local self-government, because the following year there are plus 4 percent of the funds to the local budgets of the PDF, and that's very, very important. In local self-governance, new programs are provided: drinking water, the development of treatment plants, the construction of pipelines, programs for the construction and reconstruction of educational facilities, and this is also important. Very important programs that will provide new hospitals in our communities. So, of course, you don't exactly finance all the fields, but a step towards local self - government is done. There's been both a trust MP and a lot of seniors from different parts of the country. A voice of local self - government has been heard, yet it is funded by a guaranteed and educational subsidy to local self - government. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u102	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Lesi Zabranni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u104	Please, Forgettable Lesa Valentine's Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u105	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians. Today we are considering one of the most important and important bills. This is the financial plan that the country will live on in the 22nd year. We have heard many critical comments today, and that is not surprising. But it should be noted that any budget clearly cannot meet all the needs. At the same time, I would like to stress that the uniqueness of the budget is the following. Despite all the critical concerns, we can say that we finally have a fully balanced development budget. Because in the last ten years, it is in budget 2022 that the capital expenditure will be almost 10 percent, which is the highest in the last ten years. The other one. We have fulfilled our promise and, starting on January 1, we will finally be able to pay for the hard and noble work of our medics. Yeah, we really didn't foresee a substantial increase in teachers' wages now, but clearly with the approach that we have today, in the 23rd year we're going to do it. What's positive is also positive in budget 2022. First. We keep our promise, and we will provide Ukrainians with quality drinking water by implementing the Drinking Water Program of Ukraine. We are concerned about the further development of highly specialized medicine. In particular, we know that, unfortunately, Ukraine still has one of the highest cancer rates. And besides the existing investment project, we're further directing 300 million dollars to the cancer institute in Kiev. We're directing funds to the Amos Institute of Cardiovascular Surgery, we're developing other specialized medical institutions. And also, of course, what's important is that, in the end, what the President pointed out yesterday, we are dealing with the housing of our military personnel, who were actually protecting us during the conflict with Russia. So we can talk about this budget, it's both a social budget and a development budget. And we sincerely believe what we really believe. Patriotic factions and political groups will unite and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u106	Thank you. And the final of the factions. I invite Klimpush-Cincadze Ivana Orestovna, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u107	Please pass the word to Peter Alexiovich Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u108	Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u109	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, distinguished viewers, and here the Ostap carried. "He felt the flow of new forces and chess ideas" -- that's what the classic would say about yesterday. If people’s wisdom is used, they have both stepped down and lied. In his letter, he promised as if he had his first day of office. And it's almost the third year, and we need to keep a report. And so, in the budget, dear friends, there's no trace of what he was talking about yesterday. No spending on Ukrainian economic passports, no 30 billion on Big Thermomodernization. In fact, we feel that we live in different countries. The people live in low vaccination conditions, a record of death. The people live in conditions of underfunding state defence orders, not pension indexes, not salary indexes. And the authorities live in a premonition of illusions. I would like to point out that, according to the year, all the major agencies are already looking towards a decline in GDP. On the equator, no one expects a miracle, but we only put the most basic requirements in order to protect people. First, subsidies. We need to protect local communities, compensate and save local self-government, and grant people subsidies for a simple formula. We realize there were black jokes yesterday about the coup, and unfortunately, as before, $4,000 in pay to teachers. However, at least a more modest law on the gradual increase in teachers ’ salaries should be implemented. At least to compensate for the indexes. Go over the project, but you won't find any signs of an increase in medical pay, where 300 percent of those who work with nocturnal patients do. And if the government wants to live up to Zelensky's promise, we have to add another 50 billion to the vote. 23 billion, and we demand it, should be added to the pensioners only for indexation, not higher pensions. And the guards at the supermarket can now be done more than the soldiers who defend the country. What's more, October 14th was promised a promotion. Three years has not been promoted! Now is the time to fulfill the obligation. We need to do this now. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussions with factions and groups. And then we have the next stage, this is a performance by the national MPs. But this block lasts nine minutes, so I suggest we move it on after the break. So I'm calling it a 30-minute break. Meet me in the hall at 12:30. But I'm asking all the deputies to be at 12:30, because after that, we're moving immediately to a budget vote. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our consideration of matters of the order of the day. We still have speeches from the national deputies. I'll remind you that we took nine minutes. Therefore, I would like to ask the national deputies to sign up for the performance. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Nekludov Vladen Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u112	Dear Chairman, please give my word to my colleague, Labi Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u113	Michael Laba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u114	Good afternoon, dear friends. So we came to the finalization of the country's core document for 2022. In fact, you could say here and join the President's words, this is the first budget in 2022 that will record an increase of 50 billion dollars in revenue. A number of new government programmes are being introduced, the President's initiatives, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Economics, other ministries. The Ministry of Finance, which has worked constructively and prepared this document in line with the involvement of the Ukrainian National Deputies and with all the subjects of the process, needs to be given due consideration. Today, this is a balanced budget. Of course, I will repeat that no budget of Ukraine since independence has been provided to the fullest extent to the so - called needs of every subject in the document. But the maximum balance here is also growing. And by the way, there is still a need to pay off properly, and here is the increase in expenditures and key programs that have been in place to date. So with regard to this question, please proceed to the procedure for further voting. And I also wanted to tell our colleagues who are here to blame according to what was done or had been reported by the President. Of the one-and-a-half thousand united communities, almost 1 thousand 400, a little more, almost every community in 2021 made at least one infrastructure facility, I don't say again about thousands of kilometers of roads across Ukraine. The international community, international viewers who monitor financial activities in Ukraine, are paying attention to the growth of the economy, and such plans are about 2022, so we are on the right track. Please support and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u115	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Mikhailovich Misogina, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u116	Please pass the word to your colleague, Lubi Shpak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u117	The love of Shpak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u118	Thank you. Still, it is a pleasure to see and accept the budget. Along with the positive indicators that we are discussing and discussing, there are also indicators that we would like to solve, and because today our pensioners are still outside the poverty line. I want to pay attention to the minimum of living. It is worth noting that the rate of subsistence is extremely important in the implementation of the national constitutional guarantees of citizens on a sufficient standard of living in our country. Against the backdrop of substantial price growth, which is now 13.6 percent in October 2021 by October 2020, utility payments for this period also rise by 18.8 percent. It is underestimated compared to the real development of the subsistence minimum for today, with a budget, that will lead to a substantial decline in the income of Ukrainians in 2022. Thus, article 7 of the State Budget Bill of 2022 sets the following minimum living standards per person. For the main social and demographic groups of the population, of January 1, 2022, there are 2,000 393 bracelets, and from July 1, 2022 there are 2 000 508 bracelets and December, respectively, 2 000 589 bracelets. However, according to the Minsocpolytica estimate, the actual cost of living at a minimum price of 2021 is 5 thousand, 26 dollars per month per person. So we see what the big difference is today. And with regard to pensioners, according to article 7 of the 2022 State Budget Bill, the minimum pension in Ukraine will be from 1 January to 1 January to 934 and from July to 2,000 to 27 December. And according to the subsistence minimum of the one that is real and given to the Minsocpolytics, today the minimum pension should be 3,000, 800 dollars. I mean, we see that all of the living minimum rates, social payments, pensions are underestimated. We want to take this into account in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u119	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Road Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u120	Mikola Road, "Slut of the People" faction, 162 constituency, Sumstina. Dear colleagues, I believe that this draft of the State Budget Act for 2022 is worth supporting. It has significant and positive changes that have been discussed on many occasions. There has been talk of a substantial increase in the salaries of doctors who in the sums who are constantly, daily, 24/7 fighting for the lives of our fellow citizens. In addition, I thank the Government and personally Prime Minister Smigal Denis Anatoliyovich for having accepted and taken up my call last year for the restoration of the Drinking Water Program of Ukraine. Today, especially the rural areas of 162 districts of the entire Universe, I think, and many regions of Ukraine, need to build new or reconstruct existing pipelines. In addition, in most cities, both plumbing and sewage networks as well as sewage collectors and sewage treatment plants are worn out. So the first billion in this budget is allocated to these needs, and I think it's very useful. A lot of people are criticizing us, our team, and President Greensky's own team about large investments in infrastructure. And I'm sure most of the people in 162 districts that I keep communicating with are grateful for the new roads, for the new kindergartens, schools, stadiums that improve community infrastructure. So the continuation of this program and to some extent the increase in funding for these needs will give a good boost not only to the development of communities but also to the economy of the country. So I would like to urge all my colleagues to support this bill. And to those who are constantly criticizing us for lying, I want to say that you are the biggest liars in the last ten years of our country's existence. Thank you all for your attention. Let's support the 2022 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's only one minute left. National Deputy Herman Denis Vadimovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People," and then we move on to the decision-making process. Please, Denis Vadimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! Dennis Herman, 35 constituency, Nicopolska. Many positive points have already been noted by colleagues in their statements on the budget in 2022, and I will stop at just one example. For two years, major MPs, whose districts are joining the so-called 30-km nuclear observation zone, have stood up for the social and economic development costs of these areas. So in this budget, these costs are almost 2.5 times higher. I think this is an achievement, so in general, this is a positive budget, this is a country's development budget. I therefore call on everyone to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, honourable national deputies, the second reading of the draft Law on Ukraine’s State Budget for 2022 has been completed. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to making a decision. But I ask you not only to draw your attention to the importance of the state budget, because it is primarily needed for the development of our country and our people, it is needed by local governments to enable them to form their own budgets. In addition, I want to draw your attention to such a thing. We're going to need a few votes, I want to remind you. First, we vote in favour of the budget, the adoption of it in the second reading. In case of support, and I hope that this kind of support will be, we're voting in general. And after that, as we said, we will immediately vote on the cost of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please remain in your seats to vote, because we will need a few votes on the country's main financial instrument. Are you ready for the vote, colleagues? Therefore, in accordance with article 158 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting for a second reading, taking into account the Committee’s conclusion on budgetary matters, on the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act of 2022 (Registration No. 6000). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please vote. [[12:45:11]] For 264 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Second ballot. In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 158 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules put to the vote for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee’s conclusion on budgetary matters, the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2022 (registration No. 6000). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:45:56]] For 268. Decision taken. Ukraine’s state budget for 2022 was adopted. Let's see the factions. Honorary colleagues, distinguished national deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine, are under the authority of the Supreme Council to approve the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 7 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the funds of the Supreme Council are approved by the Supreme Council at the time of the adoption of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for the following year in a second reading. You've been given a cost-of-funding project. But I invite you to announce the conclusion only by the head of the committee, Sergio Vitaliovich Calchenka, and then we will vote. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u124	The Honorary Presidium, honourable National Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting reviewed the Agency’s 2022 project for the Supreme Council of Ukraine and decided to submit to Parliament a draft decree on the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2022 (registration No. 6367). The Committee decided to recommend to Parliament that the draft regulation be adopted on the basis and as a whole. At the same time, yesterday, the Committee on Budget Affairs also reviewed the draft State Budget for 2022 and adopted a conclusion on this bill, which, inter alia, recommended and has just been supported by the State Budget Act to increase the overall development expenditure fund by 320 million dollars, in particular for the reconstruction of the Council of Ukraine TV and radio. Therefore, we would like to support the stated draft ruling, taking into account the increase in expenditure on the coverage of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by means of television and radio broadcasting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u125	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Please. You do. Please, one minute of motive is Ustenko, please. Stealth.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I've heard a brief report here, but I have a question about the cost of the Supreme Council: whether there's been a renovation there so that the people's deputies don't fall apart, because we'll soon have the most dangerous place to work in Ukraine. So the joke of walking down the street, falling out of a brick, is already becoming reality. And I also want to call on all the national MPs, and now we have a fund-raiser for homeless animals in the towers of the Supreme Council, so they don't have anything on their heads, and they could survive this winter. Please join the largest asylum in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the Bill of Decree (Registration No. 6367) on the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the year 2022 for adoption as a whole. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:49:34]] For-286 Decision taken. The cocory of the Supreme Council is accepted. Congratulations, colleagues, on this vote. Yeah, let's move on. Then we agreed that we would consider it. Oh, we've got a break with the replacement for the show, right? National Deputy Gurin. What factions are they asking for? "ES" and "Voice." Yes, please, then. National Deputy Gurin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, we made a mistake when two years ago we registered a draft amendment to the Constitution in part of decentralization. The opposition factions told us that you didn't show us the text of the registration you're talking about. We were wrong, and you were right. A year and a half ago, we started inclusive non-parliamentary consultations on changes to the Constitution in part of decentralization. We have conducted an all-U.S. regional tour, a thousand 90 delegates from local self-government associations, local executive bodies, European technical assistance projects and civil society, and we have the result of local self-government. Each of you received a 500 - page report on Tuesday. We held 35 rounds of talks with representatives of the directors of the local self-government associations of all countries, with the independent fascilitation of the President of the National Association of Mediators of Ukraine and its team. Consultations are completed, draft amendments to the Constitution have been developed. We gave it to everyone on Tuesday, and you were the first to see it. This text does not belong to anyone specifically, either to MPs or to academics from the Legal Reform Commission or to associations of local self-government. This text is common, dozens of people have discussed every word, and everyone who has this text for the sole purpose of reaching consensus. We're going to feel a lot more constructive, I hope, and justified criticism, and that's normal. But we have reached consensus on many issues. We are strengthening the acquisition of decentralization reform, the principle of decentralization of power and a new administrative and territorial system. There are communities in the Constitution. We've already given them money, and now you and I need to give them rights, especially the right to make any decisions of local importance that the State has not passed on to other authorities. Now local self-government works within and in a way: if something is not prescribed in Ukrainian laws, it is forbidden to do so. It will be different -- the community will have the right to say that we're putting up with illegal fences under this procedure and putting up with them if, of course, the state hasn't said that it governs the ministry of the demolition of fences. We're implementing a model of a strong responsible measure. In areas and areas, self - control executives instead of government administrations are created. We're shortening the power of the state to oversee the legality of local self-government. If the prefect thinks anything illegal, he's going to court. Unconsensual questions remained. Should There Be District Councils? How should the prefect be appointed, and to whom should the prefect be subordinated? The answers to these and other questions are to be found by an interfractional, intercommittee working group. Dear colleagues, opposition factions! The ability to say no and not give votes will always be yours. Please be constructive, do not break the consensus of local self - government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we move on to the next question, according to how we voted with you. Now we're moving on to question 6342. This is a bill amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region. Dear colleagues, we have a few votes to take. So please prepare for the vote first. And this question requires the first vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the session. I need 226 votes. Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for the vote. I propose to include in the agenda the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetské and Lugansk Region (registration number 6342). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please vote. [[12:54:29]] For 309 Decision taken. Next vote. We need to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills until the day of the planning session on December 2, 2021. We also need to win 226 votes for this vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[12:55:07]] For 309 Decision taken. The next vote, Bill 6342 requires ad hoc voting on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session, and we also need 226 votes. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:55:39]] For 313 Decision taken. And another vote. Consider this question by a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:56:05]] For 284 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Andrija Evgenovich Kostin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u130	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Your Honor's colleagues, we need to resume the Act on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in the Special Districts of Donetské and Lugansk (registration number 6342) for one year until 31 December 2022. We need to make this decision so that the negotiation process that is going on in the Tripartite Contact Group, which is going on in Normandy format, is continued. We understand, and this is supported by all international partners, that the negotiating and diplomatic way of resolving the conflict, the situation in Donbass is currently only effective. We understand how complex these negotiations are, both at the Tripartite Contact Group level and at the Normandy format level, but the existence of this law is the basis for the continuation of the negotiating process so that peace in the Ukrainian Donbassy can be restored so that the territorial integrity of Ukraine can be restored. Dear colleagues, I have always said this, and I will continue to say that it will be Parliament's central role in political settlement. Because political settlement is the adoption of laws. And what they will be is up to us. As this law continues, it is an important signal, including for our international partners, that the negotiating process resulting in political settlement is the principle of the political position of the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Parliament and the entire Ukrainian society. Please support this bill today and vote on the basis as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u131	Thank you, Andrey Evgenovich. I invite the co-rapporteur to take the floor to the head of the committee on the organization of state authority, local self-government, regional development and the construction of Vitaly Yuriovich Bezgin. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u132	Good day, Your Honor, colleagues! It is, as Mr. Kostin has already said, that the bill has actually one norm, namely the extension of the law for another year. I understand perfectly that there are probably people among us who consider the bill to be imperfect. Maybe even we have a reasonable claim to this bill. But this is crucial, but this bill, in particular, guarantees the interaction of our diplomats, our negotiators and international partners. This bill is the basis and key, one of the key elements of their support. So, colleagues, I think that all the parties that are in the pro-Ukrainian position should be united at the moment, not playing politics and politics here, but supporting the bill. As a result of the comprehensive consideration of the matter at the December 1st Committee, the conclusion was adopted: recommending Bill 6342 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole as a result of the first reading review. Colleagues, please show a state's position and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Yes. Then please sign in: two in, two in, two in, please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kostin Andriy Evgenovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u134	Please pass the word to Alexander Network, one of the co-authors of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u135	Alexander Alexandrovich Network, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the adoption of this law is linked to the implementation of the Minsk Accords. Ukraine is demonstrating to all the world its good will and sincere desire to achieve peace in a political and diplomatic way, and to return the finally occupied territory of Russia. We are taking another step towards liberating our territories from the Russian occupation. It's very important. Therefore, I ask you to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u137	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanishini Olga Anatoliyevna, faction of the political party "Golos". Please, Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u138	Roman Lozinski, “Justice. ” Amnesty to fighters who, for the eighth year of the support of the Russian Federation, kill Ukrainian soldiers and civilians, the special status of Russian in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, interacting with individual administrative units of the Russian Federation, the election of judges and prosecutors on the ground, the national police are not the demands of Putin that are echoing today, are the norms of this law that are proposed to continue for another year. Dear colleagues, we all understand the importance of international settlement, we all understand the conditions that were in 2014, we all understand the importance of supporting the Parliament of diplomacy. But one year, one year, President Zelensky gave himself to end the war within the Minsk Accords. He's the one who sounded it in Normandy two years ago. And for the third time, President Zelensky, and you're in this room today, you're proposing to continue this shameful standard for a year. Dear colleagues, in 2014, at the legislative level, the Russian Federation was not recognized as an aggressor. But in 2018, there was the law, the honorary colleagues, the law on the reintegration of Donbas. And you know what this law says? That the Russian Federation is aggressive about Ukraine, that the Russian Federation is an aggressor. And you know what standards today you're proposing to continue the third, this call, for a year? The norm in which you write: to promote the spread of Russian in public authorities and education, to promote cooperation with the Russian Federation in our communities. It's a shame we haven't found any other ways in this time of day.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u139	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. I take it he's handing over Shah's Sergey Volodymyrovich? Yes, please, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u140	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, respected Ukrainians, respected journalists! Please do not confuse two words, two different words: order and status. Status is autonomy. And there's no status in this law. The extension of this law has in a number of years not changed anything in this law. And it doesn't change anything on Donbass today. If we want peace, we need to show people that we live better. The economic situation should be better. And today, the economy is on its way. If we need order, we need to show it. And the two heads of the military and civilian administrations are showing the order in which they rob the state for billions of dollars. No district advice. No local elections. Stolen voices, constitutional rights of people. The war is going on in the state, inside the state. When our military is defending the Ukrainians in the trenches of peace, inside the state and in Kabmin, and vertically today, the two heads of the military and civilian administrations are robbing Ukraine for billions of dollars, for hundreds of billions of dollars. I invite you, and we demand today to make a temporary investigation commission to investigate crimes in the Lugansk, Donetsk areas, to check the full cost of government money from the budget. There's no government money, there's taxpayers' money. Kidnapping -- schools, kindergartens, hospitals during the war. Who will be responsible? We demand that an immediate interim commission of inquiry be made and that all government money be audited and checked.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine Natalia Yuriovna Kraljevska, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please, Natalia Yuriovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life" supports this bill. But what we want to remind you is that the eighth year in our country is fighting, the eighth year is killing and suffering Ukrainians. And today, we all need political will, and above all, this political will is needed by the President, a majority in Parliament, not only to prolong the operation of this law, but to carry out the whole complex of the Minsk Treaties, in order to understand that peace in Ukraine is needed primarily by us Ukrainians, and we must do our utmost to restore the peaceful heavens over our Ukrainian land. And to do that, we have to make a whole set of arrangements for the Minsk Accords: that and amnesty, that and the exchange of detainees, that and the lifting of the economic blockade, that and the elections under Ukrainian legislation, that and the changes to the Constitution, and that's also the main social protection of our Ukrainians who live in an uncontrolled territory today, that's the renewal of pensions, of social benefits. It's primarily to give people a signal that we take care of them and protect every Ukrainian in our country wherever it is. And so we urge the Ukrainian Parliament that today, more than ever, we need to unite all our capabilities and efforts in order to implement the Minsk Agreements in full and comprehensive terms to demonstrate to the world that Ukraine is now on the path of peace and is the only peaceful way for our nation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have three national deputies left from other factions: Heratchenko, Batenko and Vlasenko, and then we go to the vote. I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Irina Volodymyrni Heratchenko, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u144	Thank you. First. Green was miserablely lying to society when a Martian, Genevan, other format promised before the elections, and now it's moving free of charge in Normandy, and it's a third year in a row, a bill that was passed by our team. Mr. Zelensky, apologize to Dusty and our team. The other one. Yesterday, Zelensky's statement about direct negotiations with Putini, with the killer and the brother-in-law on his own, to sit down without goats at the table of negotiations. It's treason and surrender, there's got to be middlemen. Third. It's Greeny who signed the so-called Steinmeyer formula in Paris, which tries not to introduce it for three years, but on a permanent basis. It's a red line, we'll never let local self-governance happen in temporarily occupied areas on a permanent basis. Deoccupation, demilitarization and the liberation of occupied territories from Putin and his call is going to be our scenario. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u145	The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine Batenka. Batenko, then you. Okay? Come on. The word is given to Father Taras Ivanovich. Then Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich. Batenko, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we see that the Normandy format does not actually work today. So did the Minsk format. Today, the government has found another format that would, for example, allow it to sit at the negotiating table and end the military conflict, the war with the Russian aggressor. We understand that the Minsk agreements, which were the basis of this bill, were difficult in form and they proved inconvenient to Ukraine and contained signs of unacceptable concessions. So we think that the Ukrainian authorities should remember that any dialogue, any form of negotiation, should actually start with the withdrawal of all illegal weapons and military equipment, as well as fighters and mercenaries from occupied Ukrainian territories. So I think this bill is just a fixation of the status quo for a year and a prolongation of the legitimacy of the Minsk agreements that we have to go to because we don't have another way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u147	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich. And after that, dear colleagues, please take your seats, we will move on to making a decision. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u148	Thank you, Mr. Head. The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland is the only political force whose deputies did not vote in favour of the so-called specialties law. Special status of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. We did not vote once for the prolongation of this law. We find total amnesty wrong, we think it's wrong to create a non-Ukrainian police in these areas, the non-Ukrainian courts, the appointment of non-Ukrainian prosecutors, and so on. I want to remind you that the Minsk Accords are seven years old. But as of today, even the first paragraph of the Minsk Accords has not been completed -- it is a complete and comprehensive ceasefire. The thesis on the irreplaceability of the Minsk Accords for seven years shows its inability to bring peace to these territories. You have to look for other ways, and you definitely don't have to lift your paws and talk about amnesty, creating a special militia in these territories, and so on. That's why we don't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this very important issue. People's deputies please take their seats and prepare for the vote. The committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole, but we're going to do it in turn: we're going to vote first on the basis, and then I'm going to propose a vote in general. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetské and Luhansk Region (registration number 6342). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:12:40]] For 314 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer. Let's see the factions. I would like to propose a draft Law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region (registration number 6342). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:13:21]] For 317 The decision has been taken, the Law has been passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's move on, the next one, we have two bills left in the second reading. We're moving on to Bill 6298. Draft Act on Amendments to Supplements Nos. 1 and No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 (on the implementation of infrastructure projects and the development of sociocultural objects) is the second reading. I invite a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Arsenius Mikhailovich Puskarenka. Please, Arseny Mikhailovich. Excuse me, Gevko Volodymir. Please, Vladimir Gevko. Dear colleagues, will anyone insist on their amendments? It's yours. Who will insist? Let's do it again, shall we? Natalia Yuriovna. Natalia Yuriovna and Jaroslav Ivanovich will insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, we're talking about the first ones that are rejected. Are you going to be on the downside, too? And Camelchuk on the rejected. Okay, then let's go over the table. 5 Amendment, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. Don't insist. 8th, Vasilko and Iron. Don't insist. 13th, Ironman. Don't insist. 24th, Ruddick. Don't insist. 25th, Ruddick. Don't insist. Rudik insists at all? Don't insist. Then I'll skip. 44th. Spark, please. Excuse me, Royal, 44th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, the budget for 2022 has been adopted today, and the Opposition Platform for Life has not voted for it. Why? Because we think that you can't spend money anywhere on any mythical construction, and at the same time, you can't take away people's earned pension, an adequate living minimum, and you can pick the whole country for a year in a row, gathering a military assembly. Therefore, the Opposition Platform for Life offered, starting on December 1, to review the subsistence minimum and to establish a subsistence minimum for children under 6 years of age - 5,000 430 and children between 6 and 18 years of age - 6,000 769 bracelets, working persons from December 1st to 8,000 bracelets. And we've shown you where to get the money.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the 44th Amendment of the People’s MPs of Scorch, King’s and Black’s, the Committee proposes to reject. At the same time, the authors insist that it be counted. So please identify and vote. [[13:17:23]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next, 45th, Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. Is he insisting? Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u152	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear fellow Members, the 45th Amendment refers to the following: To remove the limitations on how to obtain these funds. Encouragement is a good process, but it was a little late, it had to be done as we suggested, and we even demanded it in March, April, May this year. When there were no vaccines, no vaccination centers. And today, we're upset that people are being pushed into action, not everyone is using smartphones. In a village where people are now being vaccinated, a lot of people, I'd say, even most people don't have sarphones and don't know what Action is. Why are you restricting them to this thousand if you have already decided to give? So please support this proposal, an amendment so that people can get the money whether they have the Action or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u153	45 amendment, People's Deputy Schufrich. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:18:59]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Next, 48th, Krulko. Krulko Ivanovich, 48th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u154	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Last week, Fatherland leader Julia Timoshenko met with the Association of Community Observation Zones, which is a 30-mile zone where nuclear power stations are located. It's about getting a grant from the state budget in their territories, because there's actually people getting sick because they live in a 30-mile zone. So I would like to express my gratitude to the budget committee, which unanimously supported our proposal, Fatherland, that 137 million that this year have not been given should be transferred to 2022 and paid in 2022. Similarly, the committee commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers to make an appropriate division between the territories. So what I'd like to say is, in 2022, it's going to take some kind of a re-establishment of a watchdog, and people who live there get what's legal. Thank you for your support for the amendment. This can't be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u155	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich, for the constructive. Let's move on. Next amendment. 66th, Bort. Don't insist. 67th, Puziychuk. Do Not Urge What's that? I'm sorry, I'm only 68. Natalia Yuriovna, please keep an eye on her. 68th, Krulko. Don't insist. Ivan Ivanovich, will you not insist on any of your own? No, it's not. Thank you. 73rd, Stormy. Don't insist. 74th. Iron, please. We made a four-minute deal with you, and you're taking all your changes. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I've got plenty of rights, so let's not go too far. I understand that everyone wants to go home, and, frankly, wanting someone to split the money into a budget in 2021, well, it's going to have a negative impact on the people's MPs' schedule. I don't understand why we vote in a pig's voice now, not in advance, as normal. But I'm not going to hold back, honestly, just out of respect for my colleagues, at least we have it. Now the second is about money. Dear colleagues, you know, it's cynical enough when the Minister of Internal Affairs, Mr. Monastirski, answers my colleague Sergey Rachmanin, says that for the border, to have the border from Belarus, it takes 17 billion, and then the Minister of Finance, and the Prime Minister says that there is no money. And I'd like to think that's why we don't increase the power of the state because there's no money. But what I see in this budget right now is that despite these challenges facing the state, you're putting 19 billion back on the road. Not to set borders, not to help doctors, not to buy extra oxygen stations, so there's no collapse like now, not to help entrepreneurs who are now closing down, not to pay for tariffs, not to compensate for the various supplements that we could now use, you're spending them on roads again. It's really cynical enough. This law, it's not about social infrastructure anymore. Let's face it, this is just another vote for the full redistribution of the state budget in 2021. And I ask all media representatives to find a minute and read the committee's conclusion. There's a lot of interesting things about the real priorities of power. Not what we've heard recently from this rostrum, but about real priorities, because there are numbers, and they're not going to fall. Before this bill, we had a few rights that could fix it. But the main amendment is to take away all you wanted for the roads, for some false idea of creating another state-owned enterprise -- the airline, about directing money to so-called infrastructure subsidy, and let's face it, to the districts of the state-owned people's deputies -- and send it to entrepreneurs. Either Inna Sowsun offered to doctors, or Kira Ruddick offered to support business during the coronavirus. But none of these amendments received support. Dear colleagues, once again, we will not vote for him. But also, frankly, I don't understand how, even in a coalition, you can vote for this law. My colleague Nina Petrovna Jujanin rightly says that the budget has never been rewritten. I disagree with her, and I mention her in a negative context, so please give her a line. But it's really, very cynical to rewrite the budget. So, dear fellows, there'll be a lot of lines, they'll definitely have to be beaten, and we'll vote for them with a red button. Now I'm calling not even for political positions, I'm just calling for an elementary human conscience: if you've found an extra 20 billion, let's not just drive them on the road once, but think about the people who need that money more. Thank you. I don't insist on editing, you can still not mention our regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u157	Thank you. Let's move on. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u158	Dear Mr. Head, such a cynical attitude toward the national deputies in the hall I have not really seen in all seven and a half years. You gave these tables when no one could get to know you. And now, as a respected society, in your first reading, you have considered one draft of the Law, against which you have voted and voted only a majority, and by voting on them for 2.5 billion, now this bill of the Law has changed in a completely different way, and you have not allowed the rapporteur to present to us that we are in the second reading. Not all will be able to read these amendments, but the concept of the Law has changed completely. "Serves of the people," please note, you are also being deceived. Since the numbers have become catastrophic, they have increased tens of times. So be nice, Mr. Stefanchuk, and don't screw around, but let's still introduce the draft law to the second reading of the report. And don't push that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u159	Dear Nina Petrovna, I'm not talking to you, I'm just asking you, when you're in the Presidium, get in the mask, because I'm talking to you in a mask, and you're talking without a mask, in disgraceful violation of the rules that we've set here ourselves. This is the only request I've made to you. Because I also have the right to protect my health, and so please, this applies to both you and everyone else. On the other hand, please, let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, you got the line. Let's move on. Yeah, 77th, 78th, Bogdan. Don't insist. 81st, Scorch. Don't insist. Oh, no, it's just Scorch. Oh, no, no, Queen, I'm sorry. 81st, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life" is addressing you. We are constantly being gathered together by the military. By this year, 25 billion dollars had already been raised. A little more money was put into the budget for 2022. This money goes neither to support the army nor to support our military. This money goes to the general budget. This money is spent on digitalization, on restoration, on big theft, on mythical roads, on presidential universities and beyond. But think about it, every midwife in her pension pays one and a half percent, every person in the country pays money for you to get it out of your budget. That is why we are in charge of abolishing the military congregation and giving it to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the 81th amendment of the National Deputy of the Royal and Other Colleagues. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:28:11]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next. Next amendment. The railroad took off its repairs. Cousbitt, 149. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Iron. Iron. Does the pussichuk not insist? Iron. Puzichuk. Iron. Dear colleagues, who will continue to insist, because I am so looking, I still have the Ironworks. Natalia Yuriovna, what's your next? You're the only ones left who'll insist, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u162	Your Honor, 724 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u163	Wait, 724 is far away. I'm sorry. Then let me go, because we've done a lot of filming. Alexiyyovich, what's your correction? [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll be right there. By 537, no one's gonna insist? Nina Petrovna, what's your correction number? What's the number, Nina Petrovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u164	Amendment 334.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u165	334th, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u166	Give me an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u167	Pass the time, 334.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u168	Mr. Head, you should be able to present the draft law to the second reading, how many amendments are taken into account, and what their essence is now on the stand. That's not what you did, and that's exactly what I was talking to you about. So you're in vain about the mask, and the answer is basically I didn't hear. I also care about my health, thank you. Now, about my repair. Please understand, we're talking about a completely different draft of the law right now, and when I was actually preparing amendments to the second reading, I was thinking that in the budget, we're going to spend a lot of money to really help out by the end of the year in a certain direction of using the budget that society really needs. So she offered, together with the doctors of Ukraine, for such an orderly, not the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine, but the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to create modern mobile multifunctional ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, 334 amendments made by the national deputy of Jujanina The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[13:31:12]] For 101 The decision is not taken. What's your next one, please tell Nina Petrovna? Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u170	Amendment 415. So, colleagues, when we said that we have less resources and 2.5 billion, we talked to the medics about how to help them, we were absolutely aware that we didn't have enough to involve people who don't want to, can't, have no medical confirmation or recommendation, that we need to create modern mobile multifunctional diagnostics complexes equipped with laboratory equipment, cardio and ultrasonic diagnostics, x-rays and ophthalmological systems with a total of 100 million and development costs of 400 million. It's their request that the 500 million who were supposed to fly, spend it just to help people make their vaccination decisions. Please support 415 and.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, Nina Petrovna’s 415th amendment It's part of the committee. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:57]] For 109 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. It was 415 revisions. Next, Nina Petrovna, do you still have any adjustments that you'll be able to take into account? Please, what's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u172	534.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u173	Now, then, I'll have to wait. Yours will be 534th next, right? 534th. What's the potter's? 537. You'll wait too. Because 531st, Dmitry Alexanderovich. 531, please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u174	Ruslan Alexiyovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, we're betting 500 million today to create a constitutional fund for a national aviation company. I think there's a lot of other issues that need to be addressed today. Not at the end of the year, without where to finance medicine, education, and many other ways that need to be done today. Plus, if we want to build our own air carrier like this, let's go to Anton's. This will allow us both to regenerate the sector, and raise the economy, and help us to develop our business, not to spend money on foreign airlines. Thank you, please support the readout.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, 531 amendments to the people’s parliament of Razumkov and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:49]] For 135 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 534 Nina Petrovna Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u176	I don't know if society understands you, too, dear colleagues, but we are now deciding to form the statutory capital of that dream that the President was talking about here yesterday -- the state aviation company. Half a billion dollars will now be buried in an account in order to somehow create this state company. Yesterday we said that in just two countries of the world, there are such public airlines. And it's totally inappropriate now to form statutory capital, more by the end of this year. There's half a billion extra money -- let's do a diagnostic on people who refused vaccination and help them make decisions. So I'm asking you to support the targeting of exactly half a billion dollars for the program that I'm proposing. It will be more accurate on all sides if we really care about vaccination and support, not the President's dream.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, the 534th Amendment of the National MP of Jujanina. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[13:36:22]] For 118 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 537, Hončarenko Aleksyyyyovich. Please. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u178	Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u179	One second, Alexei Alexiyovich. What's the problem? [[B in m in s a l in]] I asked you, by 530, who's got it. No one said. We'll be back to you, I've already given Alexei Alexiyovich. And you can ask me, Nestor Ivanovich, a list of amendments, then it'll be easier for me to work. 537 Aleksei Alexiyovich to keep up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u180	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko. My amendment is very simple. I propose to remove the absurd 500 million from the absurd idea of a national airliner called the creation of a "quarterline" we want to sell here. Instead, this money is going to be sent to the really necessary things, such as the payment of a government debt that's already reaching such a size that our great-grandparents are going to pay it off. Dear friends, why don't you explain to me, even though there's one person in this room, what's the point of a global airline in a deep crisis creating a state company? What's the point when you claimed that your ideology was privatization, creating a state company? Why? To put Sergius Lechchenko there on the board of oversight just to steal? Well, that's better, Big Construction. Go down a paved road, don't do anything stupid.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u181	Thank you, Alexeiovich. I'm putting 537 people's deputies to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:38:19]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. We promised we'd come back. 523, Nestor Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u182	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for coming back to her. I ask you to pay the utmost attention. The point is that the money found by the authorities should not be rolled into asphalt, but rather, attention should be paid to the salaries and benefits of health - care workers, or doctors. I speak Russian. So that the doctors don't go into the asphalt. I hope that now the MPs have enough courage and conscience money, two and a half billion to go down the asphalt, but give it to the doctors who are now risking health and life for us with you. So please support this amendment. And if you've found the money, don't put it in the asphalt. Give them to those who are now true heroes and protect us with you, Ukrainians and ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, 523 amendments made by national deputy Shufrich The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:55]] For 122 The decision is not taken. 120. 524 amendments, I'm sorry. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, 524th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see that you don't respect or want to support the doctors. What a disgrace! Shame! Well, that's disgusting! I have the next 524 amendment. Maybe you love doctors half the time, half the time. Mr. President Greensky. Because this is an amendment that I'm proposing not to put money into asphalt, but half of that money that you want to pay for this thousand that you want to give to people, and half of it to doctors. We're short six billion dollars to meet the President's request for a thousand dollars. Some 10 million people have already been vaccinated, as they say, and only 3 million have been allocated. That's not fair. To whom will you give and to whom will you not give? So I ask you, half the money to increase the social fund to stimulate, and half the money to increase the social fund to stimulate.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u185	Thank you. 524 amendments to the Shufric People's Deputy. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:32]] For 106 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment in this block of the People's Deputy Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich is 525th. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u186	Thank you. I understand you can't half love the President. I'll see to it. With an amendment, I propose all the funds you offer to roll into the asphalt, to give help to those who have been vaccinated. So I'm now proposing 100 percent to love the President together, and all of these costs are going to go further to the 3 billion you're offering to give people, so the President is offering them, but they're not enough for everyone, because they're vaccinated about 6.5 completely, as you said today, and I know there are more. So what I'm suggesting is that it's not something that was given from the President by one money, and it's not like we're going to increase this fund and it's not going to be 3 anymore, it's 5.5 billion by 5.5 million people. So please, we love the President together, we love him together.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u187	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. 525 amendments to the Shufric People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[13:43:14]] For-97 The decision is not taken. I'm sorry, Nestor Ivanovich. Let's move on, dear fellows. I've got the next amendment, one second, 543. National MP Dmitrik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, it's a very simple but important amendment, which proposes to allocate 1 billion dollars not to build roads again, not to bury money in concrete very doubtfully, but to subsidize local budgets for measures aimed at fighting COVID-19 during the teaching process in general secondary education institutions. Please support this revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, the 543 - year amendment of the People’s Deputy, Dmitrik, and other colleagues, is put to the vote. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:36]] For-123 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Next thing I know, it's like 633, Dmitrieva. Right? No, it's not. What's the number, Nina Petrovna? Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Call the number first.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u190	545th. I ask that, after all my amendments, the reporter from the rostrum answer. See what healthful suggestions the colleagues offer. But instead, in a fraudulent way in a few days, 1 billion per road. At the same time, we were asked to explain on which roads funding is lacking this year. They didn't explain. 19 billion were offered. And this representative stands and is silent. I don't even know if they have a conscience and a responsibility to people. I've just suggested, given that this was about infrastructure, that we spend this billion on a project to build up the border road infrastructure and set up the crossing points. Everyone's talking, driving, fighting smuggling, talking about insufficient funding. There is an extra cost, please focus on programs that are really needed and will influence the further increase in revenue in the budget. Please support this amendment. And first, the answer is why you didn't support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u191	Please take the position of the 545th Amendment Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, we are being criticized for spending on the road, even yesterday the President spoke about it. One of the most painful issues in all our communities is our ways. And this money that we're spending on roads, we're doing what hasn't been done in the state for decades. And I don't understand why these questions are ever raised here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u193	545 amendments, it's rejected by the committee. This is the amendment of the national deputy of Jujanina. You've heard the argument of the parties. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:13]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Next, I understand, Nina Petrovna, 614. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u194	The reporter said that this was true of roads in locations where there is no, but it was about roads of general use, of national importance. God, what lies and lies are all the time, and the sun is coming down to you, and it has only begun to set with you, and you have built all the bridges. Look at yourself, please, on the other hand, and critically, otherwise it is impossible to endure. Please give us the next million you pay for voting with you to focus on a project to build up the border road infrastructure and to set up the checkpoints. A billion dollars. You're all talking about the socioconomy, you're looking for something there, you're imagining, you're boasting, but the state-wide problems, it turns out, are in the budget to solve nothing. For personal distribution, you have the money, and for important purposes it is not enough. Please explain why 614.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, the 614 amendment of the national deputy of Jujanina has been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:48:52]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Next 633, Dmitrieva, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill says that the 1 billion bracelets we're sending to infrastructure projects are better sent to the health insurance program, from which we're going to finance our medics, pay medical and medical personnel, modernize hospitals and provide our Ukrainian citizens with medicines. Please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u197	633 Amendments to the People’s Deputy of Dmitri and colleagues The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:52]] For 148 The decision is not taken. I'm sorry, the people's deputy Yatzenko came up, said we missed him 62nd, but she's listed in a different edition. You'll insist on yours. Please. 62nd, Yatzenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u198	Dear Mr. Speaker, dear colleagues! I just wanted to talk to everyone about who's criticizing road construction right now. Remember, the poet and the singer were known when he said that the potatoes were all regarded as salinized by the salt. So everyone wants to go on nice roads with us, but here in the hall they say they don't need to go on, why do they need to go on and on? As a major, I want to say that this law is normal, it can be adopted. Because really people and the fast one have to go, come to people, and even bury people, they can't because of the bad roads, and Ukraine is the transit state that has to be constantly developing itself through the transit of cargo. Therefore, respectable friends may be criticized, others may be insisted upon, but let us not speculate on the roads. And I would like to make my application formal, as they say, to have the right to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, 62 amendments, are included in another edition. At the same time, the author insists that it be included in his essay. The committee says we should stay as the committee has. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[13:51:36]] For-61 The decision is not taken. The amendment remains included in another edition. Dear colleagues, anyone else? I think we've all gone through. What's the number? Now, just a second. What's that? 636th, now. 636th, Wolintz. And then Natalia Yuriovna is going to be 700, I don't remember any. Please, 636 first.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, last night 90 miners refused to go to the surface of the Donetsk region. We haven't paid our salary in months. In 38 government mines, debt accounts for 2 billion and 350 million. I'm suggesting that we don't put the next cost in the asphalt, but that we allocate 1 billion dollars to the partial repayment of the debt on the payroll. We've entered a difficult period of winter fall and energy crises. So, Your Honor, we have to go through this period. Once again, I ask and urge you to vote in favour of my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 636 amendments to the Volinz People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:15]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I understand that. Natalia Yuriovna, yes, I know, 724th, if I'm not mistaken. Natalia Yuriovna, please 724.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u202	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! This is another bill of betrayal of the Ukrainian people. Now, for example, the Servant of the People tells us that the most important question is roads, which is the biggest problem. I want to remind you, folks, that people don't have fuel in the country today, and they haven't been giving people coal in a year. Now, the president promised 20,000 dollars of salary yesterday, but it wasn't budgeted at all. Well, is it enough to experiment over the country? We added a specific list of rights to both the budget and the bill, which clearly directs money to raise the minimum of living, to raise pensions, to provide doctors with salaries and equipment. Therefore, we demand that we uphold our laws and adopt laws for people, not for roads and not for people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, this is an extreme correction, a final one that will be taken into account. 724 amendments to the Royal and Colleague People's Deputies. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:02]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've been through those changes that have been rejected by the committee and taken into account. Now we're going to go over whether there's going to be any amendments to the confirmation. I see Mamka's national deputy three corrections, you show the trident's badge. Please. Dear Deputy Mamka, please make some adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, I have three orders: 154th, 214th and 215th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u205	Please, 154th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, we have previously adopted Decree 6315, which said that the fund for the economy of the funds that were accumulated at the expense of the MPs is included in the fund that we can pay once a year to make the assistants extra. If someone thinks that 9,000 dollars for an assistant is a lot of pay, somehow we can encourage them, because 90 percent of the work force they do, it's crazy, let's do the pay. By this amendment that I'm making for confirmation, we're proposing that we take these costs away, not make extra payments to the assistants, but just give them up for another purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, because. Honorable colleagues, take your seats. They're betting on their amendments, 154th. 154 amendments, it's counted by the committee. The Committee supports its position. At the same time, Mamka, a national MP, asks for confirmation. I'm making this offer. Amendment 154, please vote. [[13:57:20]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. Next 214. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u208	214 revisions. The 214 amendment says the same thing. It's different, it's an alternative. But its goal is once again that we, as national deputies, do not help our assistants who do the most work. These are our hands, legs, and prospects for further career growth. I have a question about this: if we don't keep our promise to the assistants who also have the right to provide, no matter what, this trust fund is once again being taken away from our economy by the Supreme Council and transferred to other ministries for targeted payments. The question of employment and the payment of the assistant’s work. Let's give it, or, if there's anywhere to use, we increase the budget that we voted for, in those ministries, or we increase the assistant's budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u209	Committee position for 214 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, so that you can all understand what amendments are now being made to confirm and what is being proposed. The economy of the funds that came from the parliamentary powers that we have left because MPs don't attend plenary meetings, we offer, not to some ministry, but to the ministry. We offer these funds to direct our military to ensure their medical care. So please consider this and confirm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, 214 amendments. She's a committee member. At the same time, Mamka, a national MP, demands that she be put in for confirmation. The committee requires that it be kept under review. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. [[13:59:46]] For-143 Edit rejected. And then there's the amendment of the People's Deputy Frolov. It's, uh, 215th counted. At the same time, Mamka, a national MP, wants to bet on confirmation. 215th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u212	I'm asking the bill to tell the truth. The law doesn't have an economy of what, of what, economy in relation to what? There is a fund that has a defined name, but this fund needs to be supplemented by a decree that has already been adopted by the people's deputies. Oh, come on. From the fund that's saved and the decision-making we have to block with the decision of the law. If someone lacks funds, remove them from other programs and add them. We would still agree that this would be a targeted programme for orphans, for example, to recognize the Council as the President rewarded them yesterday, and to give everyone the money they want. That would be the right thing to do. Well, you can't call things not your names, you have to read and still make the right decisions, from yours that we used to make, not to refuse. Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u213	Committee position, please, 215 corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u214	I want to quote again clearly what this money should be aimed at: ensuring the activities of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, training of personnel and troops, medical provision of personnel, veterans of the service and members of their families, war veterans, spending 61 million dollars on consumption. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? I think the national deputies and their assistants will be able to figure it out on their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, 215 amendments to the People's Deputy Frolová. She's a committee member. At the same time, Mamka, a national MP, places this amendment on confirmation. Dear colleagues, the committee insists that it be kept in check. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[14:02:14]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. Dear colleagues, a letter has been received from many national deputies saying that they will make adjustments that have been taken into account for confirmation. Please, National Deputy Honcharenko first. The number of the adjustment and then essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u216	Pottery, European Solidarity. Amendment number one, and let's move on. I'm betting on her confirmation. This is about the fact that this bill, in general today, does not meet the necessary needs of the Ukrainian society that it is. I've already told you about a national airliner. I realize that flying German rifles is another way and that I want to fly a national airline to Gutu. But not to invest half a billion dollars in U.S. taxpayers. So I'm asking you to set number one for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, we're about to make adjustments for confirmation. Please take your seats because they will be treated, very many such amendments, and you need to make the right decision. The amendment of the 1st People’s Deputy is now under way. She's a committee member. At the same time, the national MP, Honcharenko, demands that it be put in place for confirmation. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:04:11]] For 256 The amendment continues to be counted. 2 amendments, also please, to the People's Deputy of Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u218	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, in the country of enormous need, let us see the money to our military personnel, the money provided by the military for three years does not increase, three years. This year, as we learned from the treasury, more money was spent on roads than on the Ministry of Defense. Look what's going on, Putin's throwing weapons at our borders, naked Odessa and Mariupol, and there might be a Russian landing, and where are our Neptune missiles? Why we still haven't been able to execute the state defense order, and at that point, half a billion dollars on the "quarterline" to get the German to fly to Gutu, we can't be that way, we're definitely against it. Let's put this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, I do have a request to the persons who make the amendments for confirmation to speak after the amendment. I would like to remind you that the essence of this amendment is to put the title of the law in the text, "The Act on Amendments to the State Budget Act 2021," so I would like to follow this rule of the Rules. But I'm making an amendment to two people's deputies of Skork, King's, Black, which is counted by the committee, but Deputy Honcharenko is asking for this amendment to be confirmed. Please vote. [[14:05:54]] For 288 Decision taken. The next three amendments, too, Hotcharyenko, I understand. Right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u220	Alexei Honcharenko, "European Solidarity", north of Clothing, electoral district 137. I hope it's been on the subject for now? I mean, number 3, it assumes that we're excluding important words, numbers and symbols to Appendix 1 and Number 3. I think these numbers, signs and words are fundamental. So I ask you to submit this amendment for confirmation and remind us all that the creation of the "quarterlines" to which the German will fly to Gutu, under this law, is unacceptable, and the money of the Ukrainian taxpayers should be paid to subsidies, to the military, to the oxygen -- for whatever the state needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, the 3rd amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. She's a committee member. At the same time, the national MP, Honcharenko, demands that it be submitted for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:07:16]] For 275 Decision taken. 4 Amendments to the Ironworks. It's counted. At the same time, the national MP, Honcharenko, wants to bet on confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u222	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to meet you, and I'm not going to put her on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u223	Thank you. The next amendment 6 is marked. No, you wrote 5-a, but 5-a, it's rejected. I'm sorry, you can't put it on. Next one, you don't put the sixth one. The 7th you put, yes, the Black Sea. Please, it's partially accounted for. People's MP Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u224	Thank you. It's a big deal. By the way, I think we can support this. But I would like to remind all of our colleagues that now at the end of the year we are actually in the last budget month when the state has an additional financial resource when there are challenges to the state: such as Russian armed aggression, such as COVID and pandemic, such as the energy crisis, when we buy electricity in a crazy dictator. And we have miners in Dobropilla who don't go to the surface because they don't get paid. And how come our miners don't get paid? Let's send half a billion dollars to get the miners paid, not to throw away the money to the crazy dictator Lukashenko, as we do to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u225	Yes, the 7th Amendment of the Blackmaorov People's Deputy, it's partially accounted for. At the same time, the national MP, Honcharenko, asks that this particular consideration be placed in part for confirmation. I'm betting on this editorial, which is partially considered, for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:09:21]] For 277 Decision taken. Next amendment 9. It's also partially accounted for. It's an amendment to Osadchuk, the Ironman. But Alexiyyovich wants to put it on the stand. Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u226	This is an important amendment because it foresees an important editorial that the allocation of funds from the State budget to the implementation of the State Health Care Guarantee Programme and the provision of assistance to insured persons for a period of restrictive anti-epidemic measures. Friends, business suffers, in very poor conditions today all those who engage in small and medium-sized businesses. And at this point, when we make a decision, we make an absurd (this is going to be the next bill) decision on "wavo thousand" for "95 quarter" tickets and for Pilates. At the same time, we do not give money in this bill to support a small barbershop, a small coffee shop, all those people who are in need of support today and who are now being supported by the whole world. Please listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, 9th Amendment. It's partially accounted for. At the same time. I'm sorry, Anastasia Olegovna, I can't talk here. I'll ask you a little quieter. Dear colleagues, the 9th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Osadchuk and Iron. It's taken into account by the committee in part, but Alexei Alexiyovich Honcharenko requires that we confirm this consideration. So I'm putting it in a piece that's partially accounted for. Please vote. [[14:11:09]] For 269 It stays partially accounted for. The next 10 amendments to the People’s Deputies of Oblivion. It's counted. The potter wants to bet on confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u228	Yes, it's an extremely important correction, because it's about oxygen stations, including. My friends, I would like to remind all of us that when there was an extremely correct bill by Inna Sowsun, I had the privilege of co-authoring this bill, which we submitted at the end of April of the month, about the allocation of funds at the oxygen station. What? Nothing was done. They were delayed until November of the month. It was only November that they accepted. So far, oxygen stations have not been delivered. And that's all at a time when people really need it. So I think that in this bill, with additional financial resources, we had to take care of the medical services of citizens, the extra equipment for our citizens. But we didn't do it and that's why we're embarrassed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, the 10th Amendment of the National Deputy of Oblivion. It's counted. At the same time, the national deputy of Honcharenko puts it, asking for confirmation. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. [[14:12:37]] For 261 Decision taken. The next amendment is 11 Osadchuk and Iron. The potter wants confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u230	Thank you. It's an important moment, my friends. Because in this bill we could predict help and teachers. Yeah, that wouldn't be $4,000. But the point could be that 500 million dollars could go to teachers in Ukraine. Education today is question number one. Yes, everyone can make a contribution. For example, I opened 22 Honcharenko Centers, which work all over the country, with free education for children and adults. But you can't do everything on a private initiative. By the way, I invite everyone to come and learn. We have to help our teachers from the state. And we need to put education and culture first. So, my friends, please support my position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, this is about the 11th amendment of the national deputies of Osadchuk and Železniak. It's counted by the committee. At the same time, the national MP, Honcharenko, demands that it be submitted for confirmation. I'm betting on this amendment for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:13:59]] For 292 Decision taken. Next amendment 12. Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u232	It's very important, my friends. Look, I want to remind you again. At a time when people really need support, when colossal energy prices today, and Ukrainians need housing support, instead of adding money to subsidies and helping people, instead of allowing them to get what they call "wavo thousand" to pay for utility services, not yoga, curling, Pilates or something else that they don't have. Are you saying that Grandma from the village will fly to Odessa for the opera? She'd probably love to, but she's got nothing to pay for wood at the moment. So, friends, we're sending money to grants, this is our task, which is to help the really needy. When we talk about government resources, it has to be government-driven.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, the 12th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Rudik and Iron. It's counted by the committee. At the same time, the national MP, Honcharenko, demands that it be submitted for confirmation. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:15:30]] For 282 Decision taken. The next 14 amendments of the people’s deputies of Osadchuk and Iron. The national MP, Honcharenko, demands that it be put in place for confirmation. Please, National Deputy Honcharenko, for the 14th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u234	Thank you very much. I have the next one, my friends, to all of us. Let us really go down to the earth and see what people need today. I was talking about military personnel today. I was talking about our miners. Look at what happens when we don't put our energy into it. I've already mentioned that we have huge payments to miners. And what we have in the field of alternative energy when one company was paid by the authorities didn't pay the other. And we have a very difficult situation today where the investment climate in the state is being destroyed, and President Zelensky comes out and says that we had a coup d'état yesterday. Maybe I missed something, somebody saw him, friends? We didn't see him, but we do know that he hit the investment climate in the country with such a statement, knocked down the currency, the Ukrainian securities fell into the price. This is what's happening in our eyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, the 14th Amendment, is counted by the Committee. It's confirmed by the People's Chamber of Commerce. Please vote. [[14:17:07]] For 290 Decision taken. The following 15 amendments, national deputies Rudik and Ironborn. At the same time, the national MP, Honcharenko, is listed, wants to put her on the stand. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u236	Mr. Chairman, I don't ask anymore. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u237	And we won't get far. 16th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u238	Thank you very much. 16 to the left, my friends. Well, let's think about it together, if there's even such a need to create this "quarterline" or UNA "quarterline," or something. Why don't we create them for Ukrainian planes? Why our businesses, why does Antonov simplify? Why do they want us to buy planes abroad again so we can send money to Ukrainian taxpayers abroad when we have our own production, our own aircraft construction? Do you want to destroy it? You can't do that. So, my friends, please pay attention to what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, 16th Amendment. The committee is accounted for. At the same time, the national deputy of Honcharenko wishes to place it on the stand. Please vote. [[14:18:37]] For 270. Decision taken. 17th Amendment. Please, the national deputy of Goncharenko wants to. It's counted, but he wants to bet on confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u240	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that at 18, I will not insist, Mr. Chairman. But on the 17th, I want to say important things. Guys, in fact, today we need to not just talk, but work on the state defense order. How can we protect the country? We understand with you that there will be no great invasion of Putin in just one case: when Ukraine is ready to do so, when we are able to give in the teeth of an aggressor at any moment. So the defense order should be our "holy cow," if we don't want to give Ukrainian money to defend the Russian Federation. So this is question number one for us. It's not an airline, it's not a requirement, it's not a pierre project like the Presidential University, it's a defense order.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, the 17th Amendment, she's listed by the committee, but the national MP, Honcharenko, wants to put her on the stand. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. [[14:20:12]] For 270. Decision taken. Next amendment. You're missing the 18th. 19th, please, Alexeiyovich Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u242	Dear friends, the Ukrainian teacher is the one we have to support and help, because without it, even in the short term, I'm going to talk about the long term. And now that we have the opportunity to allocate money to the Ukrainian teacher, we're sending them to God's place. Guys, I understand we can't give $4,000 here. I understand that this will not be the fulfillment of the Presidential promise. But let's at least extend our hand to our teacher, to all those who make the country a better country, who deal with our children with you every day, doing so in extremely difficult conditions. So I'm asking you to focus on this and think about it, and do it, not in words, but in action.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, the 19th amendment is included in another edition, but this is the position of the committee of the National MP, Honcharenko, asking for confirmation. So please, Your Honor, vote. [[14:21:38]] For 257 Amendment 19 remains included in the text, as stated in the committee’s decision. Next, 20 revisions, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u244	Thank you very much. Dear friends, of course, are a Ukrainian pensioner. Look what's happening to us today. The pension deficit accounts for almost 200 billion dollars and 200 billion dollars a year. So our task today is to reduce this deficit. And so with the possibility of an additional resource, so let's channel this to the Pension Fund, let's direct this to those needy people who are actually having a hard time today, and those who are most suffering from the coronary crisis, because we know how much drugs cost, we know how much treatment costs. So, friends, before making any demands meaningless, I'm going to say again why every taxpayer in Ukraine today is going to look like a so-called national airliner, when a Ukrainian pensioner is not something that's not protected, but just every morning thinks how he's going to live that day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, the 20th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Železniak is included in another edition. But Alexiyyovich Goncharenko requires that this decision be confirmed by another editorial. I'll put him to the vote. Please vote. [[14:23:21]] For 254 Decision taken. The amendment remains included in another edition. Next, the 21st Amendment of Iron. Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u246	Yeah, and I just want to say that the next 22 might not be on confirmation. It's the 21st. Our culture is an extremely important subject. Friends, we all see with you that culture is actually what saves states in the long run, what distinguishes one state from another, what the state is not a state. Why, with the opportunity to allocate an additional half billion dollars to Ukrainian libraries, to Ukrainian theaters, to allow cultural access to our Ukrainians, to help the cultural sector, to help the book institution, to help all those who care about the most every day, we don't do that. What are we gonna do, a national airliner singing songs will be someone, stewardesses? What is it that we're talking about with you? We need a culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, the 21th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Ironborn, is included in another edition. However, the committee’s decision by the national MP, Honcharenko, suggests that it be confirmed. So I'm betting on confirmation of the 21 revisions that are taken into account by the committee in another edition. Please vote. [[14:25:11]] For 284 Decision taken. It's left in the other line. 22nd. You don't insist. 23rd, iron repair. Please, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u248	Dear friends! Ukrainian peasant! You and I understand what happened last year, for example, when a terrible drought occurred in southern Ukraine, when our farmers were proved, there were terrible cases where in the Rhine region of my native Odessa, a farmer took his own lives as a result of the drought, because he couldn't be calculated. And what help did we give them? But the answer is no. Now we could give that half a billion dollars to help our peasant grow Ukrainian produce so that we can have less import potatoes in our supermarkets, so that really Ukrainian peasants can look to the future with confidence. But unfortunately, all of this has not been done, and we are now re-examined with you a bill in which we are channeling such important money completely beyond the help of the Ukrainian village.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, the 23rd Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Ironborn. It's taken into account by the committee in a different edition. But the national MP, Goncharenko, is asking for such a decision to confirm. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[14:26:52]] For 263 Decision taken. The next amendment is 28, as far as I can tell. Wait a second, this is the people's deputies of Osadchuk and Iron. It's counted. But Hotcharenko is asking for confirmation. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u250	Thank you very much. We listened to all the President's speeches yesterday. You know, I want to tell you that there were the right things, so for example, that we have to provide all of our veterans with housing. Friends, why wait till next year? These people who have already made a living in their service to the State, why not send these 2.5 billion dollars to housing for Ukrainian military personnel today and resolve the issue immediately? You don't have to wait a year, you don't have to wait for that story to become a reality. And now we could have done it with you. This is what happens when we consider the state budget. But, no, it's better to make a promise sometime than to send the money to a corrupt grocery store. This is completely wrong and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u251	28 Amendments, People’s Deputies of Osadchuk, Iron. She's a committee member. At the same time, Honcharenko asks for such a decision to be confirmed. I'm betting on confirmation. Please vote. [[14:28:29]] For 270. Decision taken. Next, 29th Amendment, this is Rudik, Ironman. At the same time, Hotcharenko wants to bet on confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u252	Friends, a Ukrainian border guard, see what is happening on the border of Belarus and Poland. We understand with you that the artificial migration crisis that Lukashenko created with Putin, attacking in such a hybrid way European countries, he will at any time redirect this stream to Ukraine. Who knows where our border from Belarus is? Guys, I don't want to tell you all the details, but he's definitely not in the state he's supposed to be. So let's give this money that we have to pay for the Ukrainian border, for the support of the Ukrainian border, for the money, for the equipment, what will allow us to have a truly secure Ukrainian border, not in words, not in conversations, not on television screens, but in a truly secure one that we'll all be proud of. So, guys, let's direct this to the border guards.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u253	Yes, dear colleagues, the 29th Amendment of National MP Rudik and Ironman. It's counted by the committee. The national MP, Honcharenko, demands confirmation. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[14:30:06]] For 276 Decision taken. And the final amendment that Alexeiyyovich is going to make is 30 amendments. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, Alexei Alexiyovich, who will bet, told me that 30 is final, and then Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko will put. Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u254	Thank you. I have good news, Your Honor Chairman, there'll be Volodymyrna after Irina, too, so it's okay, we'll keep working. See how important it is today. A hybrid war is waged against Ukraine, propaganda is an important component. Russian propaganda that pours and pours against Ukraine and against Ukraine is promoted in the world. Why do we not invest in defending our information security, giving way to Russian information aggression? Yes, each of us can do this on our own. For example, I encourage everyone to sign on to my YouTube channel, where I fight Russian propaganda. Please sign, my friends. Please expand, comment, press the bell so that nothing is missed. But this can be done systematically from the State, not only on the private initiative of people who care about Ukraine’s national security.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u255	Well, that's such a strange explanation for the 30th amendment. Well, let's get this straight. The 30th Amendment of the Iron People's Deputy is included. At the same time, Alexeiyovich Hotcharenko requires that she be put to the test. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. [[14:31:57]] For 272 Decision taken. 31 Amendment, please, National Deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u256	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as a constructive opposition, we always take with great inspiration, drink, and enthusiasm all the wonderful proposals of monotonousness. And we would like to thank the national deputy Motovílovec, who wrote, once introduced the amendments to Law 5600, and suggested that in the hall we actively prepare for all other readings so that all the amendments could be made for confirmation so that the session hall would know them. Our faction would like to express its thanks to the National Deputy Frolov, who, by his own laws that have become laws, has done all he can to keep the session room from voting many, actively, from coming out of the session room. And we think these are the right initiatives of the majority that have become our muse. So we would like to warn you, Your Honor, that from now on we will be asking for confirmation all the amendments to all the bills that will be tabled in the session room, but we will improve Mr. Motovilovac's excellent offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u257	Well, now that we've settled for the next amendment. Dear colleagues, the 31st amendment, is the amendment of Rudik and Ironman, which is counted by the committee. At the same time, Irina Volodymyrna asks for confirmation. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:33:37]] For 267 Decision taken. Frolo's replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u258	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to answer "European Solidarity" by turning Parliament into an organ that doesn't work for citizens. I will remind you that in 2019, in order to go to the polls, they themselves generated thousands of amendments to the laws of the Electoral Code and the Language Law, and there were five people sitting in the hall. So really, when we came to power, we passed such laws that parliamentarians like all Ukrainians would work, not walk, do their personal work. So, ma'am, we need to work and not turn Parliament into a place where we just hold buttons. Please let us discuss, not engage in corrective spam. Stop dealing with parliamentary obstruction and we'll work and discuss bills, not spam.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u259	32 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Ironworks. Please, Irina Volodymyrna, you want to put it on confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u260	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, 32 amendments, and this is the case where our political power, experienced politicians, want to support "new faces" -- Mr. Motovilovac and Mr. Frolov, who rightly point out that we have to work. And that's why we have to go with you to all the amendments so that both Mr. Motovlov and Mr. Froll know not only the amendment numbers, but also what they're talking about. Amendment number 32, for Mr. Motovilovac and Mr. Frololov, and all the others who are currently in the session room, is an amendment to our esteemed colleagues in the opposition camp of the Voice Party, who write numbers, signs, and dots. And we ask her to support this amendment, including Mr. Motovilovts and Mr. Frolovs. You're right that we're not just supposed to sit here with you, not just ticking buttons, but getting to know the amendments, protecting them, because Mr. Motovilovec, he just filed a list of amendments, and we need to protect them and vote consciously. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u261	I also support the need to protect them on a reasonable basis, knowingly, and ask for the next time on the figures set out in the amendments. Okay? Do you have an agreement, Your Honor? Thank you. 32 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Ironworks. She's a committee member. At the same time, it is in favour of confirmation, so please vote. [[14:36:39]] For 276 Decision taken. The next amendment is 33. Correction of Osadchuk and Iron. Heratchenko wants to bet on confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u262	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, there's very rarely a muse in this room, but I want to say that both Mr. Motovilovac and Mr. Frollo have certainly become muses for our faction, which have forced us to study all the amendments to the important bill that we're currently studying. And this is a very important amendment by our distinguished colleagues in the opposition camp of the Voice faction, which tells us that in paragraph 3 of section 1 of the bill of 1.38. 7,192. 043.2 should be replaced by 1.87,992. 043.2. I want to give this as a positive example to Mr. Motovilowitz, that if you propose to put amendments to the vote, not just the amendment numbers, but their content. We have now made a point of this amendment, and we ask that it be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u263	It's brilliant. That's brilliant, that's why I am. Well, you haven't read the whole amendment. So, colleagues, I'm putting 33 amendments to the people's deputies of Osadchuk and Iron. It's included in a different edition. Irina Volodymyrn is asking for confirmation, so I'm betting on confirmation. Please vote. [[14:38:23]] For 277 Decision taken. The following 36 amendments of the People’s Deputy of Ironworks. It's included in a different edition. But Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko wants to bet on confirmation. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u264	And I'd like to say, dear colleagues, and your attention and, of course, Mr. Motovilovich, that when amendments are made, where it's written, which is partially counted, it means that the amendment is not counted, it's kind of, you know, atavism, diplomacy and it's taken into account in another edition. We think our colleagues from the opposition camp of the reverend Voice party are making some brilliant adjustments that should actually be taken into account in the full edition. And that's why I really want to read this amendment and you're going to understand, and Mr. Motovlov, and Mr. Frolov, that it's very right, whether you're in power or opposition, you have to study all the amendments and then consciously vote for them, not just to click the green button, but to vote consciously. So what do the esteemed colleagues in the Voice faction suggest in 36 amendments? I'll tell you, they're proposing in paragraph 3 of section 1 of the bill of 1.387.192. Replace 043.2 with digits.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u265	36. Amendment of the People's Deputy of the Ironworks. It's taken into account by the committee in a different edition. At the same time, National Deputy Heratchenko asks for confirmation of such a decision that it is included in another edition. That's why I'm betting on the vote. Please vote. [[14:40:13]] For 270. Decision taken. It remains included in the same text. 37 Amendments to the Ironworks. It looks at the confirmation of Irina Volodymyrna again. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u266	Please, you know, Mrs. Jujanina too, she has taken into account the position of Mr. Motovilovec, and please give her your word now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u267	Please, then, the 37th Amendment of Juliana Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u268	Dear colleagues, it's not funny at all, because, you know, when it's written "included in another edition," that means it's not counted. Because the Ironworks suggested replacing a billion 390 with a billion 434. How's that? Is this counted or not counted? I would ask the committees to use commonly acceptable explanations for the national MPs, not to deceive anyone and especially society. So Amendment 37 isn't counted, and you wrote "included in another edition." So you're going to listen even more now to what you couldn't even imagine if you were doing the right thing. The secretariat of the committee should provide the correct explanation and conclusions for each amendment. And I'd like to take that into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u269	Dear colleagues, the 37th Amendment, the People's Deputy of Iron. It's included in a different edition. At the same time, Nina Petrovna Jujanin requires confirmation of such a decision that she is included in another edition. I'll put him to the vote. Please vote. [[14:41:57]] For 268. Decision taken. The amendment remains included in the same edition. It's included in a different edition, I said so. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I say again, all these decisions, I said, are taken into account in another edition. That's why I'm putting that paper that's counted by the committee. Dear colleagues, I say again, well, once again, if you have to question the transcript, let's see. 38 Amendment to the Ironworks. It's included in a different edition. At the same time, Nina Petrovna wants to place this decision on the committee for confirmation. Please. Who's it gonna be? Heroceno. Please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u270	Dear Mr. Stefanchuk, Your Honor Mr. Kornienko, you know, our faction quite rightly criticizes you, but today we will praise you. You're great young people today that we're moving under the Rules and we're taking into account the recommendations of Mr. Motovilovac, who has quite rightly pointed out that the Hall is to be prepared for the second reading, that the Hall is to go after all the amendments that the Hall has to prepare for the amendments that were adopted by the Committee, and the Tickets are not just a green button, but to prepare for this, to vote for the amendments that the Committee has already adopted, so that we will consciously adopt such important bills that there is a budget. In fact, we demand that this amendment, which is similarly included in another edition, is now in the author's writing, because this is the authorship of Mr. Iron. And we think that its amendment is more specific about the necessary changes to the budget. Thank you. It's in the author's book.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u271	Thank you. See, only the author can insist in the author's essay. You can insist that it is not the author only in the text proposed by the committee. Therefore, fellow believers, the 38th Amendment of the Iron People’s Deputy. It's taken into account by the committee in a different edition. So you're going to propose that you confirm that you're going to put this amendment in the way that it was taken into account by the committee, that's another version. So, dear colleagues, I'm making such an offer. Please vote. [[14:45:07]] For 262 It remains included in another edition. 39 Amendment to the Ironworks. It's included in another edition by the committee. Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u272	I'd like to draw your attention, Your Honor Chairman, to two moments. First. Mr. Motovilovac asked for a repulsion, please give him the right to reply, he deserved all his positive changes to the work of Parliament. I would like to stress that from now on, our political power will put to the vote in the Hall for confirmation all amendments to all the bills that will be considered in the second reading. We welcome you. We can even legislate it and write such a bill along with Deputy Froll. And I'm asking you two things as chairman. First. Do not comment on the revisions. Your job is to put them to the vote. And the others. We're asking for confirmation of the vote of the committee. And our position is now to confirm the author's writing. So don't talk to yourself about the article right now, but we want a constructive budget discussion now. And we demand that the article be submitted for confirmation. Amendment 39 is now being edited by the author. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u273	Once again, all the amendments that are being made are based on confirmation only in an editorial that is supported by a committee. If the committee isn't supported, then it's different. So, dear colleagues, I'm putting 39 of the Iron Amendment, it's included in a different edition. Irina Volodymyrna, I understand that you're asking me to confirm this decision by the committee that it's included in another edition? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Only a person can make an amendment if he feels that it is unaccounted for. That's why I'm doing what I said. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:47:12]] For 266 It remains included in another edition. Forty-two rifle repairs. Please, who's it going to be? Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. It's partially accounted for. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u274	Thank you. Dear voters, distinguished Ukrainians, you know, yesterday the session was so neat, so beautiful, they were all in beautiful T-shirts from "The Servant of the People," and I mention the faction, "To the President. Against the oligarchs, they didn't issue these T-shirts for the Presidium. And we don't understand whether you've been robbed or you're an oligarch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u275	Irina Volodymyrna, I'm sorry. Let's make it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u276	Now for the amendment. This amendment directly concerns the President and the oligarchs. Because the president said in his speech yesterday that there was an increase in the amount of Ukrainian gas. Although the yield of Ukrainian gas has actually increased all the previous years, and now it's shrinking every year. At the same time, the pressure on state enterprises is increasing. And then where does that money go? They're going to the envelopes, to the MPs, to the socioconer. So we're proposing this amendment to Mr. Pushkarov not to confirm, because the money that remains in state-owned enterprises is theirs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, the 42th Amendment of the People’s Deputy Puskarenko, is part of the committee’s decision. At the same time, Irina Volodymyrna asks the committee to confirm this decision. So I'm putting this amendment, which is partially counted, on the vote. It's part-time. [[14:48:57]] For 241 The correction remains partially accounted for. Next amendment. Now, just a minute. 43rd, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u278	Ladies and gentlemen, please note that in a week the project has actually turned into a global story from an elementary 2.5 billion and a three-line project. Now we have the next one. This is exactly 43 amendments to the State budget grant to local budgets to pay off debts and differences in tariffs. And that's exactly what the source of what the cost is and what the special account for that is going to be. So that's exactly what the rents at the State Enterprise for the period from September 21st, somehow after March 22nd, 95 percent will be directed not to the general government budget, not to the general fund, but to the special fund. So you can understand that this bill is completely now filled with other global articles that weren't discussed in the hall and that are not responding.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u279	Please vote on Amendment 43. It's fully accounted for. Please vote. [[14:50:40]] For 227 Decision taken. Please, the following line number 46, the law of the Kowal, Babak, Tistik, Salamaha, Kopanczuk, Koleboshin People's Deputies Group. It's taken into account with editorial regulations. Who's putting her on the stand? Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u280	Colleagues, this is a very good amendment that brings to the bill important norms for supporting children's camps under COVID conditions. And we offer to support it when we place it on confirmation. It's a good amendment, maybe because it's not only about the majority MPs, it's about the other factions, it's about the intellectual policy. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u281	Please, I'll bet you number 46 on the committee's vote. Please. [[14:51:51]] For 254 Decision taken. The factions, please. Amendment number 47, Eugene. Edit Andrija Andriyovich. It's included in another committee. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u282	Dear colleagues, would you please tell me who was able to get to know this bill? Now, when I read every amendment, I understand the global content of it in general for the use of public budget funds by the end of the year. And there are some additional powers given to the district government regarding the allocation of an additional grant from the state budget that I have just talked about, which you have just seen for the first time, between the local budgets. I don't understand the meaning of it right now, if this position were discussed in the hall so that we could get to know each other, we are voting again for the unknown standards. I ask you to abstain from voting, and yet this bill will be passed next week, and these rules will be passed on to a separate draft law after consideration by all the people's deputies, and now not to vote on these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u283	I'm betting on the vote number 47 of the national deputy Klochka in the committee. Please vote. [[14:53:33]] For 218. [[14:54:04]] The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've been working for almost three hours, we need to square the premises. We're taking a half-hour break for a quart of space, please. Meet me at 3:25. Please take the necessary steps to ensure bacteriological and epidemiological safety in the premises of the Supreme Council Hall of Meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u284	A request to take up your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and we'll continue our work. Dear colleagues, continue, please. Please take your seats. Please read the 49th National MP Kopanczuk, listed in another edition. Please place it on the confirmation of Arthur Volodymyrovich Herasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u285	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, the presiding lord, the honourable Ukrainians! It's a really big adjustment. First of all, I wanted the servants to be accounted for in 49 revisions, because it refers to so-called transitional money. Dear colleagues, it's really important, but what kind of money does this principle of money transition extend to? So I'll explain, the possibilities of using them not only until December 31st, but also in 2022. What kind of money this is spreading to, we don't understand. Because the situation this morning, not for ten days, this morning for 8:15 of these tables was not in principle available to any national MP. That's why I'm asking the committee representative to explain what money, as amended by 49, is the principle of the transition of their use for the year 2022? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u286	Please take the seat of the committee, Gevko. Forty-nine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u287	49 revisions relate to the purchase of oxygen stations, the design and installation of these oxygen stations. The committee proposes to make this a transitional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u288	Thank you. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote number 49, it's included in the committee's paper. I'm betting on what the committee took her into account. Please vote. [[15:49:57]] For 268. Decision taken. The factions, please. The next issue of the 50th National MP, Kopanczuk, is included in the Committee's edition, in a different edition. Please bet on the confirmation of Arthur Volodymyrovich Herasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u289	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich! Honorable representative of the committee! Dear colleagues! I'd believe it if there was one program code. But if you look closely at this amendment, and any of the parliaments present in the House of Parliament now recommend looking at this and other amendments, there are at least 8-10 codes in each of them. If you're considering the budget process, that means it's different programs, different costs and different money. So you don't have to cover up just the oxygen stations that you had to spend money on as early as May 2020, as the opposition told you. And until the opposition broke down the next session, you weren't going to spend money on helping people and on oxygen for patients with COVID in resuscitation. So explain correctly how all the codes are taken into account. If you don't know, honestly, I don't know which code this is referring to. So please explain to me what kind of money this money is for. And depending on which money we're going to make, we're going to decide whether or not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u290	Please bet on the vote number. Committee position, please, Mr. Gevko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u291	As far as 50 is concerned. There are many communities that, due to circumstances or other circumstances, have not been able to make use of the funds that have been directed to them. And that's why the committee decided to make these funds transitional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u292	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 50 of the Kopanczuk People's Deputies in the committee. Please vote. [[15:52:10]] For 266 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Next line is number 51 of the Lušnjak People's Deputy. It's part of the committee. It's on the confirmation of Arthur Volodymyrovich Herasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u293	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. As the explanations say, they are not satisfying. Yeah, we support it because there's the right direction for using this money in 2022. But that's not all you're talking about. You know, if you don't lynch and analyze all the codes, you'll understand. Dear colleagues, I will call for confirmation if once again a representative of the committee proves that this is the right direction for the use of state funds, the costs of taxpayers. But once again, I'd like to draw your attention, especially in such two-pronged laws, even though there are no irrelevant laws, but especially in budgetary ones that refer to the country's life in this and the following year, it's unacceptable, I'm not talking about ten days anymore, but when even on the day of the vote there are no materials that apply to this bill. And at the time, it only tells us one thing, something they're trying to hide, something they're trying to steal, something they're trying to lie to. And put an order on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u294	I'm betting on the vote number 51 of the Lushnjak People's Deputies. Please vote. [[15:53:53]] For 282 Decision taken. Next line is number 52: National MP Molotok, Urban, Tchaikovsky, Batenko, Labazuk, Kisse, Shapovalov, Jurchisin, Baloga, Lubinets. She's listed in another edition by the committee, put on confirmation by Arthur Volodymyrovich Herasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u295	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look, I'd like to say that by 69 revisions, this is all about transitional money. And so I'd like to say to you that the committee's explanations really have to be very serious about supporting this or not. I am sure that colleagues, especially colleagues who do not represent a majority, are introducing bills that point to the right direction of using these funds. But when you don't have the materials, when you don't have the explanations, and at the time you have the underfunded army, you have the underfunded doctors, if you have the underfunded teachers, if you have the underfunded weapons-ordering program, how can you vote for spending the money, sorry for the misunderstood airlines of Ukraine, for the once again "great theft" on the roads and for the entanglements of people in the districts that are often spent in the wrong place. Especially with the 82 and 83 amendments I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u296	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. I'm betting on the vote number 52 in the committee. Please vote. [[15:55:41]] For 272 Decision taken. Amendment No. 53 of the national deputies Gevko, Tistik, Cusbitt, Hermann, Traveller. It's in the editor's office. the committee in another edition. She is put to the vote by Arthur Volodymyrovich Herasimov for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u297	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you to proceed to the procedure immediately at 59. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u298	Please proceed to the vote. Please edit number 53 in the committee. [[15:56:30.]] For 270. Decision taken. Arthur Volodymyrovich, you're still, yeah, on the move, fourth, right? 54 The People's Deputy of Kisilevski and the People's Deputies. He's putting Arthur Volodymyrovich Herasimov on the stand. It's included in another committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u299	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, you know, I have repeatedly said that the majority, unfortunately, does not hear constructive advice from the opposition. So if you heard what I said before, and I asked you to go to 59, we'd be doing 59 right now. But now, again, we're going to go back to 54, which is about granting the status of transitional money, which is probably not going to be able to use this year. And here, if there's 30 seconds, I'd like to raise the subject of very low utilization and funding of government programs in different directions. Look, if you take even the most important thing for today is the Armed Forces of Ukraine, it's the supply of weapons, it's the purchase of weapons, you'll see that underfunding these programs is scary. And when we start talking about the wages of our soldiers, you should be ashamed of Zelenski too. And after this revision, please move on to 59th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u300	I'll bet 54 votes on the committee. Please vote. [[15:58:15.]] For 264 Decision taken. Edit No. 55 of the People’s Deputy David Georgiyovich Arahamaiya It's on Arthur's confirmation. [[B in m in s a l in]] 59th, and I'm sorry, yes, 59th Law of the People's Chamber of Guns. It's part of the committee. He's putting Arthur Volodymyrovich Herasimov on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u301	Thank you. Thank you to my colleagues at the "Serve of the People" faction who finally heard what I was trying to say and went to 59 revisions. Dear colleagues, when we talk about the state budget, it's a story that. Which is different from what Zelensky's team says on the talk show. At the talk show they can say anything, any trick, they can say how they love people, how they're willing to spend money on retirees, on children, promise something. But the budget is a mirror, a technical mirror that shows real applications. So this is about the budget for 2022, and especially your changes to the budget for 2021, this is your real face. Because you don't care about pensioners, you don't care about the army today, you don't care about kids today. But you don't need to be drinking money on the airline again, spraying money on "great theft" and spraying money on other programs where we already know clearly and journalists have been writing about it, taking a dump in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u302	Please place 59 amendments to the Committee's vote. [[16:00:03]] For 267 Decision taken. Next line 63, yes, Arthur Volodymyrovich? The number 63 of the Pasic people's deputies is partially accounted for. He's putting Arthur Volodymyrovich Herasimov on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u303	Thank you. Dear colleagues, just because the regulations 63, 64, 65 and 69 also apply to transitional money, I would just like to hear again from the committee's representative his position as to which programs, apart from oxygen stations, you want to use this money today. And after that, including repair 69, I'm not going to pick it up if the explanations are now interchangeable. And then I'm going to ask you to pass on the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini. Individually, I am going to raise regulations 82, 83, which are now going to allow corruption to enter into this law in any way after a second reading vote. Thank you and I look forward to an explanation for all the amendments in order to take everything off before the 70th amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u304	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. I'm betting on a 63-seat vote of the Pazsky People's Deputy in the Committee. Please vote. [[16:01:35]] For 269 Decision taken. Please, 69 revisions. Or the '70s? 69th, right? 69 revisions, it's the national deputies of the Shpak, Aristov, Krulka and others, included in the committee's editions, in a different edition. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u305	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich! With all due respect, I have a big question. How do the headphones work now, or how do you hear what is said in the lobby? Because I'll explain. First of all, you didn't hear me go through the repairs. Secondly, I just said that in order to get to the '70s and beyond, we need to hear an explanation from the committee at least for all the programs they want. Well, at least in a minute, there's an explanation. We didn't hear any explanation, you moved on to 69th. That's why I have a big request. Let's do it this way. Now, one minute of explanation. You don't have to put 69 on confirmation, I mean the vote, in one minute they'll explain these programs that relate to these 15 or 20 rights. I'll explain, we've only been through five. And after that, I would like for me, to finish my work today, to put it on confirmation 82nd and 83th, per minute for each one, and then we will now make a decision to find a compromise. But now, first of all, the committee's explanation for all the programs, because there's a lot of different ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u306	Please, Mr. Gevko, an explanation from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u307	First of all, I want to thank my colleague for understanding the importance of these rights and for voting all these rights then with the green button and supporting them. All those programs that were transferred were carefully weighed by the committee. Most of these programs, these are infrastructure projects, which, as I've said before, are different circumstances that have delayed the signing of contracts that have been delayed in periods of change in weather conditions, cannot be implemented this year, we're transferring them. In terms of direct redress, for example, 69th, which is now on the subject of sheltering, it's a specialized support service for people who have suffered from domestic violence, a similar situation, the committee has long worked on this issue, we've found that there's really been a lot of competitions to create these shelters, and now we're just giving opportunities.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u308	Please allow me to put to the vote 69 of the draft in which the committee took it into account, please. [[16:04:36]] For 280 Decision taken. Please, 82nd, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. 82 revisions, this is the readjustment of the Oblivion, please, taken into account by the committee. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u309	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I'm addressing you right now very carefully to the entire room. I've talked to many of you about it, but I want you to hear it now. This amendment, if you put this whole structure into a simple language, is called this: this law after voting in general, but by the time it's passed on to the President of Ukraine, you can write anything. You remember, this story was already in the hall, and we were overturning the kind of changes that pure corruption is making to quietly distribute billions of dollars in the dark. I'm addressing everyone in this room right now. Please do not support this pure corruption and do not vote in favour of it. The same is true of amendment 83. Therefore, it is a great request not to vote because it is corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u310	Please bet on the vote 82 of the Forgettable. Please. [[16:06:06]] For 214 The decision is not taken. 83 lashes, Ruddick, Iron. Considered by the committee. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u311	Dear colleagues, thank you. This same thing, it's linked to 82, and it has to be beaten down too. I am very grateful to all those who have not voted in favour of this amendment. Because, once again, it's not about using the funds, and we've proven it now that we've discussed the transitional status of the funds. Because when we heard the explanations, of course, we supported it, look at the vote, one or the other granting the status to transitional money, but this is corruption. Dear colleagues, you can't do that. And I'd like you to knock this out as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u312	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. I'm betting on a vote of 83 percent, it's counted by the committee. Please vote. [[16:07:16]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Please, Motovilover Andriy Viktorovich is motivated.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u313	Friends, what we now see in the room is the lack of parliamentary consensus and the ability to work together. Being able to build a dialogue is not just about society, it's about Parliament. In the future, we will have to count each faction and group on the adoption of the law. I ask you to go to the Supreme Council's constructive work on these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u314	Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko, for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u315	Dear colleagues, you know, sometimes an apology sounds even as Mr. Motovilov said it now and perhaps Mr. Frolov will say something like that sometime. In fact, what was that all about? The fact that at the time of consideration 5,600 such was the pyroic victory of a majority when all the amendments were made for confirmation, thus trying to suppress the opposition. It didn't work. And really, it's very important to be able to admit your mistakes, to apologize, even though it would be right to say now: "European solidarity", you haven't got your 12 minutes to fix. Dear Mrs. Jujanina, you had every right to them, and we recognize that. And that would be an apology. I think Mr. Motovlovec will still be able to take another minute and say it to Mrs. Jujanini and European Solidarity. And it's going to be really a compromise, really a desire of the halls to look together for understanding when we're working on important laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u316	Please have the name Motovilovt, but it is not in an offensive context. If you need a replica, you can have it. Please. We've got Nina Petrovn Yuzanin four minutes, and then we can bet. Five minutes, Nina Petrovna. Motovlover.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u317	If an apology is to be made to Mrs. Jujanini, I apologize for not having heard her point of view in Law 5600. Nina Petrovno, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u318	Please, Nina Petrovna, to the rostrum. Yes, please. Mr. Volodymyr, please release the rostrum, Nina Petrovna will speak now for five minutes and then we will proceed to the vote. Please invite the deputies to the session room. Five minutes, please give Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u319	Dear colleagues, I understand that we must seek understanding and move on. You're all very tired. And everyone was asking us to go to constructive work anyway. I hope that we will never again have the procedure that was in consideration of 5,600. With respect to this bill. One of the most important points is that we have not been able to read the text of this bill. It's not really the first time the text of the law is to read the second reading and the content, and it's completely different than the first reading. So I'd like to ask you one more thing: never again post these tables to the second reading in a few hours before the beginning of the session. This makes it impossible to get to know numbers or content at all. And I want you all to understand, and to understand all Ukrainians, that in five days between the first and the second readings in our national budget, except for an additional two and a half billion, there were 48.5 billion! Here someone said that payment rates, rent payments, including those discussed in Law 5600, should be further indexed. Where, then, did the additional 50 billion come from in five days? You realize that it's absolutely obvious that neither planning nor monitoring, nothing happens in certain ministries that are responsible. That kind of money is a lot of money, which. I thought it was fair that after receiving the money, the IMF decided to do whatever you wanted. This is totally not in line with our obligations and with the planning that could be accomplished. So I've been telling you that this bill is going to review the creation of special-expenditure special funds. And it's very important to pay attention to where you're going to spend these costs, and on the basis of what extra payments you've offered before, you're adding what payments you're paying. 19 billion. I tried very hard to analyze 19 billion and did not understand. Additional income tax was set at 4 billion. In doing so, we see that you're reducing the national bank's budget payments, the government's revenue tax by 10 billion. So you don't have the same numbers as each other. There is no understanding how such money can be generated in such a short period of time. So I think all these changes that you've been making right now would really need a discussion on the budget committee, an explanation by the Ministry of Finance. I want the Ministry of Finance to stop being such a layover. They're not here in the hall right now, although we're all spending so much money. There is no responsibility for what happens to finance. I, by the way, wanted to ask the Minister of Finance today, and I would like to make you and all the people of the Ukrainians aware that, in nine months, the treasury data is saying that the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the training of personnel and troops in plan 94 billion has been completed by 60.4 billion. Sixty billion dollars have been funded, that's 67 percent. And the State Motorways Agency in nine months, with a plan of 82.1 billion, is funded by 67.3 billion dollars, 82 percent. That's 7 billion more than the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And then there's the question that you're talking about now, 19 billion more on the road? Where are the Ukrainian Armed Forces, where are they financed? I do not agree that you consider the new budget assignments given only by your colleagues. I'll say it again, we've had three revisions, because we've only distributed 2.5 billion, not 48. So, of course, when we're talking about support for doctors or encouragement, or completely new opportunities for our society, those who haven't been vaccinated, to make decisions. I don't understand why you don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u320	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Please ask the deputies to take their seats. We will proceed to the vote. I'm betting on a vote of acceptance as a whole. adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending Appendices Nos. 1 and No. 3 to the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2021 (for the implementation of infrastructure projects and the development of sociocultural objects) under registration number 6298. Please vote. [[16:16:02]] For 242 Decision taken. By factions, please show me. Thank you. And I have two announcements that I will make before passing on the chairmanship of Mr. Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Soha Roman Vasilovich, from the political party's deputy faction, "Serve of the People". The application is added. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional MPs union "The Digital Country". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedienek Alexander Pavlovich, was elected head of this association. That's what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u321	Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you for this parliamentary compromise. I think we're going to demonstrate it further. We are going to consider the final bill today, Bill 6297. This is the draft Act on Amendments to Supplements Nos. 1 and No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2021 (to assist insured persons for a period of restrictive anti-epidemic measures taken to prevent the spread of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by SARS-COV-2). It's a second reading. I'd like to invite the head of the Committee on Budgeting's subcommittee, the Disturbing Forest Valentinovna. Please, Lesa Valentine's Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u322	Ladies and gentlemen, on November 18th, the Supreme Council adopted Bill 6297 as a basis, and with the mandate of the Committee on Budget Affairs to finalize it in short terms and to submit it to the Supreme Council for consideration in a second reading. The bill included 707 proposals made by national deputies, which are presented in a comparative table. A total of 119 offers were taken into account and 588 offers were rejected. According to the Committee's consideration, the decision to recommend Bill 6297 to the Supreme Council was adopted in the second reading and generally as a law in the final edition, as set out in the comparative table to the bill and in accordance with the committee's decision. To entrust the committee, together with the Ministry of Finance, with the provision of the preparation and vision of additions to the relevant law, and with the Chief Legal Authority to introduce the necessary editorial and technical regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u323	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please tell me if anyone is planning to insist on their own. At first, they're the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are Okay. Then we'll take turns. 4th Amendment, Ironman. We agreed, five minutes, Jaroslav Ivanovich, and you're recording your amendments. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u324	Dear colleagues, with all due respect for the House of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I think that today we are seeing a very interesting situation where almost every national MP can continue the plenary meeting for hours, there will be no votes at any rate, and then this bill will collapse, and it is thought to be important at least. I would like today to be an example when we respect each other’s schedule. I'm here to make the Supreme Council work. But let's sort of reconcile it in compromises, as it was, by the way, when the coronavirus started. Then, despite many obstacles, we could find understanding, not listening to one faction, though the greatest. The other one. I'm under this law, if I'm not mistaken, about 500 rights. And of course, with respect to my colleagues and those who are now introducing the bill and those who are in the sessional room, I will not insist on them all, because I don't think that's going to lead to a constructive outcome in our next job. And I respect the decision, by the way, Mr. Motovilovac, who has gained the courage to make few representatives of power, and has gone through a situation of 5,600. I think it's the right thing to do, and I want us to keep moving in this key when we respect each other. Now for this bill. This bill, if I'm not mistaken, was originally introduced by 3 billion, incomprehensible as to the cost. Then, after the video of Mr. President and the explanation of some of the colleagues in the room, we realized that this would be a compensation for vaccination. Those who received a vaccine after December 19 will receive a thousand dollars. As a person representing a professional banking committee, I have great doubts. Mr. Motovlovec, step away, please. Thank you. There's a lot of doubt that you're implementing this idea. But if you have such an uncontrollable desire, you can do it. The only thing we've been warning you since day one is that you're not going to have enough 3 billion. And what the committee did, taking into account the Voice check, which at least increased the money, is probably the right step. The only thing we predicted was that you were taking this money off the road, and it's very bad that you left 19 billion on the road at the same time. I'll say it again, no politics, no populism, but I think we've got some priorities. My colleague Sergey Rachmanin talks a lot and will talk about what we need to do with the state border from Belarus -- and you don't spend almost any money there. My colleague Roman Kostenko has offered many positions to strengthen the defense, along with your committee -- and you don't spend any money there. My colleague, Inna Sowsun, has made many amendments regarding the strengthening of state health guarantees. We've increased at least the number of oxygen stations, we're going to need them at the next wave of the coronavirus. But that was hardly counted. So now your full responsibility is to accept the last, I hope this year, changes to the 2021 law with those priorities that are, without the support of entrepreneurs, because you're giving this money to people, and maybe they'll go to the fitness center. But I think it's not just the fitness centers that suffer. Without the support of doctors, without support, by the way, what the faction and the Voice party were saying is the idea of supporting the family doctors who have already received the vaccine, and you're just giving 5 billion per program with a beautiful and alternate name, eSupport, but with very empty meaning. I'm not going to continue to insist on my papers and I'm not going to ask you to take any of them into account, I just want you to finally, as today's compromise was found on the situation that was out of 5,600, so we still found a compromise on how the state finances priorities. Because I fear that someday we will have a real problem, that roads will appear, and that there will be misunderstandings about which armies and the misunderstanding of which border they will come from. I think a safety priority should be returned as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u325	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. 9th Amendment. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Are you insisting? Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u326	I've got three amendments, two minutes, and we won't put them on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u327	Please, two minutes. Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u328	In fact, I don't understand if everyone realizes that what they've re-adopted is the draft law in the first reading, with those goals, even incomprehensible, but it's now turned into a completely different draft law. And the eSupport program that's already going through all the way and in other drafts of the law, I see it, you know, it's only a partial benefit. Because only those who can register and identify in Action will benefit. Again, this does not apply to the vast number of people who may need this support. I don't agree with the idea that it's the money that has not been vaccinated and will be vaccinated for some reason. We told you that it would take a whole different procedure to encourage vaccination. And they're all about getting the doctor's recommendations on the possibility of vaccination, and the elderly are getting a medical examination in general. And why can't you hear the doctors who are offering you a way to reach a higher percentage of people who are being vaccinated in Ukraine? Because once again this bill contains a purely political aspect. It's this kind of financial slavery because of "eSupport." Because you want to be registered, please, and you're a potential candidate for future electronic voting. Don't do that, because we have a large population of over 10 million people who need support just because they're mostly unvaccinated. These are the people who aren't exactly registered in Action. That's why you're limiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u329	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who will insist on their amendments? I see 62nd, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I'll come to you, I'll give it to you right away. 62, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u330	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have 62th, 63rd, 65th and 66th, give me 2 minutes, please put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u331	Please give me 2 minutes, and let's make four adjustments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u332	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 62 papers, it's a good thing when we go to museums, travel the country, but today the question of social security and housing and utility payments is much more important to pensioners, especially in the depths of the museum in Kiev. Just like going to a movie that needs to go 50, 60, 70 kilometers, or even not to see it. The second amendment is a readjustment that says that let's make it possible to spend money on health care. This, first of all, will help us solve the issue of the wages of our medics, and the first amendment will help reduce the non-payment crisis, which is also now home-communal services. These are important questions that really bother people. So let's not do populism, let's not spend money where people don't need it, but we need separate industries to make movies or whatever. So it is still suggested that I support the revisions that I have just mentioned. Let's really help people and encourage them to go on vaccination instead of just talking about it and making a pyar out of it. Or as colleagues have said today, test the so-called electronic voting, which can then come to a loss of democracy and the rule of law in our state. Please support the 62, 63.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u333	Dmitri Alexanderovich, do you ask me to put in only two?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u334	Two: 62 and 63.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u335	Dear colleagues, I place 62 amendments to the vote of the people's representative of Razumkov. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:28:51]] For 169 The decision is not taken. And the 63th Amendment of Dmitry Alexanderovich is with his colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[16:29:16]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Next, please, we'll return to the 52nd, People's Deputy Yatzenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u336	Dear colleagues, I'm going to use my right again to confirm this amendment. And what I'm saying is, it's really amazing to hear all the time in this room today, I'd say, hysteria against building roads. But let's see that MPs represent people's interests first of all, and just after all the sociological research, the problem roads are the most important issues, almost the most important in the country. And let's see who's up against the road, how many people are dying because of the bad state of the road, how many are injured, how much damage is caused by it, and how much is Ukraine losing because of the undeveloped infrastructure. So we would like to be professionally approachable instead of finding a theme on which we are constantly at war. The roads are not your daughter-in-law, colleagues, I'm sorry, let's keep up the road, build.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u337	You don't insist, do you? Don't insist. Let's move on. We've got it. Is anyone else going to insist? I know that, yeah. Nestor Ivanovich, are you going to make a lot of changes? Two. Please, Nestor Ivanovich. What are the amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u338	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm asking 66 to make an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u339	66 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u340	I'm sorry, 67th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u341	I'm sorry, 67th. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u342	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I now propose to unite and help our citizens to receive these funds, they are still lacking, 3 billion instead of 9 billion, and they are limited by the Operation. An amendment is made so that money can be obtained both in cash and in cash in order to be determined by the government. So we're actually giving you the opportunity to get this money in any way so that we don't get tied down, whether there's an Action or not. If we treat all citizens in the same way, we should not do anything for those who have established or have not set up a Smartphone. All citizens according to the Constitution are equal. I don't want anyone talking about the corruption component or any other abuse of the ability to get help right now. Let us unite around this and give people the opportunity to get money.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u343	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. 67 Amendment of People's Deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. She's been rejected by the committee. The author insists that it be taken into account. So, honourable colleagues, the committee still insists that it be rejected. So please identify and vote. [[16:32:42]] For-48 The decision is not taken. 68th. Little girl, please raise your hand, I think. Yeah? Now, now, 'cause it's 68th. Andrew Klochko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u344	Good afternoon! Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm betting on confirmation by the committee's proposed regulation 68 of Bill 6298, as follows: "Article 39. To establish that, in 2021, as an exception to article 97 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the allocation of an additional grant from the sources of the budget to local budgets for the conduct of public services and energy bills consumed by institutions, organizations, enterprises held at the expense of the respective local budgets is carried out by district government administrations between local budgets, the value of a tax capacity index of less than 0.9 and approved by a district budget decision." Dear colleagues, please support such an editorial, otherwise it will not be possible for local budgets to pay public health and education bills. I ask you very much for your support, dear colleagues, to unite and now support this important amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u345	Andrew Andryovich, is this about the 38th Amendment? About the 68th amendment? I'm sorry, it's in the second line. I don't vote, guys, I'm sorry. Let's move on. I can only put it in what it is. You've read another line. I can put the 68th in the line that it is. Put it in? Dear colleagues, I'm putting 68 amendments to the People's Deputy Kloczka. She's been rejected by the committee. So please identify and vote. [[16:34:45.]] For 242 Decision taken. It's an editor who's here. You get it, right? It's not what you read. Let's move on. Dear colleagues. Nestor Ivanovich, what number do you have for the second? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u346	I beg of you, Amendment 205.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u347	Please 205 amendments, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u348	Dear colleagues, with some experience of work both in the Supreme Council and in the government, I would like to propose an appropriate programme to make it more flexible and more effective, perhaps it could be used to make sure that the Ministry of Economics is not the Ministry of Economics, but the Ministry of Finance. Because this program is more suitable for this ministry. I have this feeling that someone wants to selectively give money to certain categories of people, although we now have a lot more vaccines than 3 million of our citizens. And the Ministry of Finance has more mechanisms for settling and working out a fair distribution mechanism. Please support the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u349	Thank you. 205 amendment of People's Deputy Nestor Schufrich. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[16:36:22]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Nestor Ivanovich, we voted on all your amendments. Thank you. We're done here. What's the number? Because it's 155th. You have more than that. What number, please? Please, Koval. 54th, Koval, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] 64. 64, Koval.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u350	Dear colleagues! Of course, man’s sports, cultural development is extremely important. But we all went to school, and let's think about the Maslow pyramid. What is a priority for man? This is the satisfaction of her basic needs. And the basic need is to eat. It is this right here that proposes to allow this thousands of bracelets to be used for products and services that are provided by the Kabmin decree and are defined as social ones: bread, milk and other products. And the sport is after people eat normally. Colleagues, please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u351	I thank you so much for telling me about this amendment, but it's what Dmitri Alexanderovich was talking about. No, he told me he was, 62th, 63rd, 64th, 65th. Didn't you say 64? Okay, let's do 64. All right, we've heard the argument. So, it's the honorary colleagues, the 64th amendment of National Deputy Kowal and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:38:17]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. What's next? You've got everything, haven't you? You have 200, they go there early. Please, National Deputy Truhin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u352	Thank you. There is a very big request to support the Supreme Council's apparatus and to add funds to highlight the activities of our Supreme Council, to support as much as possible, because this is a necessary revision that we have not considered in the basic table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u353	Alexander Sergiyovich, you wanted to.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u354	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to consider this issue in a comprehensive manner and to try to agree today and vote on Decree No. 6315 to increase the payroll fund for assistants. Let's, yes, try to vote it ad hoc after 6297 immediately if there's agreement between the faction leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u355	I've spoken to the faction leaders, that's the agreement. So given that, I'm voting 155th Amendment of the People's Trukin, right? The 155th Amendment of Truchin. It's rejected by the committee. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[16:40:00]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Please make four more adjustments. National MP Bondar, right? And two minutes is the national deputy of Honcharenko, and then we can go to the vote. Do I get it right? Please, Bondar, you are correct: 227, 295, 415, 441. Why don't I give you two minutes? Two minutes, National Deputy Bondar instead of these amendments. And then two more minutes, the national MP, Honcharenko, please. And then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u356	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 227 amendments. I've been out of the Supreme Council and the briefings on several occasions. This will apply to military aircraft. This is an increase in the wages of our helicopters. You remember August 24, when helicopters flew over the Christian. Of the ship’s four helicopters, three have already been released because their wages are twice as low as their colleagues from the police force and from the DSS. It will be a request to support it. 295th is an educational subsidy in my constituency, where I propose to increase it from 3 million to 5 million because there is no educational subsidy in the territorial communities. 415, they've been talking about this time and again, it's an increase in the wages of the medics, it's those who're fighting COVID-19 right now. And a very big request as the head of the coal industry subcommittee. Amendment 441. I was just talking to David Arahamaia. He's willing to support the People's Servants. In fact, we will no longer be able to increase the budget programme and provide our miners with a wage. So, colleagues, it's a very big request to support the 441 rights. The miners are not to blame that coal products are now being purchased for more than $200 a tonne of coal in the world. And they have 2,000 dollars and they can't afford their coal products. We are therefore obliged by the State budget to compensate for the price difference in coal products. 441 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u357	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we agreed, we are voting on these amendments. These are the amendments of the Bondar People's Deputy. Let's get started. And so, 227 amendments, the amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy. The committee didn't count it, turned it down. So please identify and vote. [[16:43:06]] For-99 The decision is not taken. The next amendment to 295 is the amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[16:43:29]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 415 of the Bondar People's Deputy. The committee counted it. Overruled, I'm sorry. The committee turned her down. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please identify and vote. [[16:43:57]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment of National Deputy Bondar 441. The committee also rejected it. Please vote. [[16:44:20]] For-96 The decision is not taken. And, I take it, today's final two amendments to the People's Chamber of Commerce is 460 and another, you said, I didn't hear. So please, Alexeiovich Honcharenko. And one minute. Before we give. We're all done, we can go to the vote after that. Therefore, I ask the national deputies to take their seats. After two minutes of the People's Deputy of Pottery, we go to the vote. Please, Alexeiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u358	Thank you. Dear friends, I'm only voting for one 460. And I want you all to hear, this is an opportunity for each of you to vote now so that when you come to your districts, home, you won't be ashamed to look people in the eye. What are we talking about? It's very simple. She predicts that money, this thousands of bracelets, as a stimulus and support for those who have been vaccinated, could not only go to yoga and Pilates, not just to a sports center or that Grandma would fly to Odessa to listen to the opera or to Lviv to the museum. Not just to take a 95-quarter ticket, which is thousands, by the way, and it's not enough. And so that people can pay for utilities. That's what's bothering many people. Anyone who wants to go to the gym, please, anyone who wants tickets, please. But who wants gas, for wood, for coal, for residential services, let's give people this support. We want to stimulate who, don't we? Whom should we encourage to inject? First of all, the elderly. What does it matter to these people? Well, you know that very well. Why give people such help that they have nothing but opposition, such as bullying? Let's give people the opportunity to spend this money on what they really need. So I ask you all very much to support my amendment, which will allow me to do so. I promise you that the results of this vote will be in all social media. And by every last name, everyone will see who voted. Friends, please let's do a good thing together for all Ukrainian citizens. And to make this the phrase "Vova's Thousand," it's not torture, it's real help to those who need it. Well, of course, I wish everyone health. And I call for vaccination.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-02-m0.u359	Dear colleagues, as Alexiyyyovich said, will ask for only 460 amendments. That's why I'm putting 460 amendments to the People's Chamber of Commerce. The committee turned her down. So please identify and vote. [[16:47:19]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion of the bill and are moving on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments a draft Act amending Appendices Nos. 1 and No. 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 (to assist insured persons for the period of implementation of restrictive anti-epidemic measures initiated to prevent the spread of acute respiratory disease COVID-19 caused by the Coronavirus SARS-COV-2) (project registration No. 6297). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:48:22]] For 253 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, look, we have voted with you on these two bills, but we have sent out some of the petitions that resolve the issues to raise in draft Decree 6315: amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on financial security for the activities of the Ukrainian people's deputies. I've spoken to the faction leaders, there's no objection to putting her to the vote. Therefore, my dear colleagues, I am proposing to the committee to adopt a draft regulation amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulation on financial security for the activities of Ukrainian national deputies (project registration number 6315). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[16:49:30.]] For 294 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock. Congratulations, colleagues.
