ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u1	And as we're used to today, we're starting the next consecutive meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In connection with the requirement of 156 Ukrainian national deputies and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we are currently holding an alternate plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You are presented with a list of questions for consideration at an extraordinary meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[17:12:54]] There are 215 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I remind those national MPs who have not read the Rules that even one national deputy in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is sufficient to begin the meeting. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Who's speaking? Peter Alexiovich? A boy? Young Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u2	Dear Ukrainians! On the eve of the second anniversary of the presidential election, power ceases to be mere power and emerges into what is commonly called the regime. Today, the regime broke through the front bottom: illegal political surveillance has been established against the deputy of the Kyiv Council of Victor Kononenko's "European Solidarity". And all this is happening in the background of constant persecution by the authorities of Ukrainian soldiers, volunteers, volunteers, participants in the Dignity Revolution. I want to remind you that in the 15th, 17th years, Victor Connonenko -- the hottest years of the Ukrainian-Russian war -- was headed by the joint headquarters of the ATO, the war general, the veteran of the war, the deputy head of the BSS. The pro-Russian fighters determined a very high price for his head. And as professional Victor Connonenko sees more than a non-specialist can see, he discovered his own surveillance a week ago. Today, assuming that surveillance could be conducted by Russian fighters, mercenaries, or bandits, Victor Connonenko took steps to determine their identity, instead they presented a police certificate, a dirty special operation was broken. Victor Connonka called the police and journalists in front of him, and the secret became clear. European Solidarity believes that the illegal surveillance of the war veteran police and our deputy may be linked to false claims of our party's alleged involvement and, personally, Peter Dustenk's involvement in coloring the President's Office and breaking the windows on the door to the Bank. Peter Prashenko has filed a lawsuit against the Ministry of Justice and, personally, Anton Heraszczenko, demanding that this information be declared unreliable, demeaning his honour and dignity, causing schools of his reputation. This is no longer the first case of our monitoring of political power. In the summer of last year, D.B.I.'s woe detectives were caught on illegal surveillance of the party office. We demand that the authorities stop this shameful practice of using law enforcement agencies to prosecute opposition. Such action by the authorities does not indicate European choice, but rather the attempt to turn Ukraine into Russia. With similar steps, Janukovic had already begun, and this route led him to Rostov. Let's not let the opposition be persecuted. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u3	Dear colleagues, another statement has been made for a break with a replacement for the performance. Bujansky? Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u4	Dear colleagues, I'm on the other side. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sorry, next time. Dear colleagues, we all respect the right to a peaceful protest, it's the basis of democracy. The right to peaceful protest against the actions of power, the right to peaceful protest against the authority itself. It's okay. But it's not normal for an open provocation to perform vandalism by pretending to be a democracy. That's what's behind the idea of democracy. I will point out in part what is even worse when the national deputies of Ukraine are organized and involved. I'll remind you that every national MP has to protect state symbols. And it's strange when a national deputy, for example, Mr. Jurchisin stands and watches a trident set on fire (table on the President's Office). [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like to ask you a question: when does this gentleman repay money, which one? The taxpayers' money that was spent cleaning the President's office wall after his party? I'll remind you that the only purpose of the action under the President's Office was to provoke the N.C.P.D. to act hard to ensure order. To provoke, to wait for hard opposition, and then to show from the screens a picture, a beat-up picture, a picture of blood, a picture of broken heads. That was the goal, and we all imagine it. Yes, we support the right to peaceful protest, but not the right to beat the police, but not the right to speculate on their reaction. And I think we should say no. It's our duty, it's not a small case, it's a principle, unfortunately, and I think we should answer that in principle too -- no. At this point, I urge you all to support a decision that condemns vandalism, which condemns actions that undermine trust in democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u5	Jurchisin, the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u6	If my actions are so hot, it's probably the right thing to do. I was going out, I was going out, and I'm always going to be with those people who stand up for their rights. And if we can't look at this much time with you, in fact, judicial reform that would take away the need to leave at all when this police state is persecuting those who are fighting for it, then the real national MPs with the people are not serving the Russians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues. The first issue of the agenda is a review of information provided by the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the National Police, in charge of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation on the events that took place on March 20, 2021, near the Office of the President of Ukraine. The following minutes are proposed: statements by the above-mentioned rapporteurs, up to 10 minutes each, followed by a question from factions and MPs, 21 minutes. One question is one answer. One minute to question, two minutes to answer. Questions from the National Deputies, up to 9 minutes, followed by statements from factions and MPs, up to 21 minutes, three minutes for the faction. Is there no objection? None. That's why I'm here. In the same order in which it was declared, there are no objections? The report is given to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, John Hennadiovich Bakanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u8	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Thank you for the opportunity to come out of the Parliamentary rostrum today and once again raise critical issues for Ukraine's national security. Today we are discussing the events of March 20 under the office of the President of Ukraine. And I am confident that today my colleagues from Nazpol, who are subordinated to the IMF, will provide a comprehensive amount of information, along with the Department of Public Protection, which may also be worth inviting to this room today. Because it is according to the law that these structures rely on the functions of protecting public order and such public objects. At the same time, the Ukrainian Security Service is actively involved in this process. We informed both the National Police and the Department of State Protection about the oppression of the situation around the stock and possible clashes. The first message we sent to Nazpol on March 17 about the possible radicalization of these events. And immediately after the events on March 20th, we provided additional information about the organizers and the active participants in the protest, including photos and videos, which I'm sure are the basis of a criminal case that is being investigated by Nazpol today. So we shared operational data, documented and recorded events near the President's Office. They evaluated the risks that this action could pose. And they did so in the context of a possible impact on national security, without interfering with the competence of civil order colleagues. As always, the Ukrainian Security Service operates within the limits of the given authority, according to the law. So I'd like to talk about this in a broader context. Of course, every citizen has the right to a peaceful protest, as enshrined in 39 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. Only in the interests of national security and public order can this right be restricted to prevent disturbances or crimes. So the right to protest is sacred. But there is a clear limit to it that no one is allowed to cross even the national deputies of Ukraine. I support all kinds of things when people actively exercise their civic position, including during peaceful protests. This testifies to the maturity and democracy of our society. But I can also see the back of this medal. We have enough information to confirm and prove that the Russian Federation's services are constantly monitoring the social and political situation in Ukraine, prosthetic movements and actions. I would like to point out that in no way do I claim that the Russian Federation's dissident was behind this action. But I make it clear that the Russian Federation is trying to use any media reason to use this situation for its own benefit. In doing so, patriots and carefree citizens may not even know that their active activities are being used in the information war by the intelligence services. We realize that hybrid war is our reality today. And this war is taking place not only in the east of our country but in the peaceful streets of our cities. Distracting protests from one of her instruments. Remember even the so-called "tariff venues" in January of this year. Their customers were curators from the Russian Federation. This is also a method of influence and weaponry, as is the general informational space of cyberspace. By the way, when individuals began making accusations about the closure of propaganda channels, I made it clear that freedom of speech was ending where the threat to Ukraine’s national security began. I'll say the same thing now. There are fine lines between protest and violation of the law, and it is established by the court. And he'll give an evaluation of the events under the President's Office. At the same time, I have the opportunity to call on citizens from this rostrum and, above all, politicians, let us be aware of the risks and consequences of such prosthetic actions. I can assure you that the BSB is doing its best to remove any threats to public security in an early manner or to neutralize any threat to public security. But countering threats will be much easier when society is oriented towards unity rather than to fuel conflicts that are artificially inspired from the outside. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u9	Thank you, Ivan Hennadiovich. Please have a seat. The Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Igor Volodymyrovich Klimenko, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u10	Good afternoon, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies, invited! On March 20 at the President’s Office, the action was held under dozens of cameras. Directly, they watched developments unfold, without hindrance to their peaceful right to peace, to peaceful protest, and to the extent that the limits of the law were crossed. I would like everyone to recall briefly the events that took place a week ago. [[Video broadcast]] The first fire was set on fire at 19:35. Next, the rest of the estaphet was captured. And all of this under the noise of exploding firecrackers and scandalous slogans. After that, the paint balloons were on the move. Shareholders began writing on the front and front of the office of the President of Ukraine. At this wave of mass-excavity, the rallyers set fire to the Ukrainian President tablet with the coat of arms of the state. The aggression of the crowd was not limited to the walls. The officers of the dialogue police found themselves on the line of fire. And the protestors asked that the "police dialogue" be between the President's Office and the protestor as a guarantor of the security and guarantees of peaceful action and open communication between the police and the citizens. Our officers in front of the President's Office were standing face to face with activists. In fact, we needed to evacuate the negotiators there because they were in real danger. And they only have ID vests from the crew, because it's "police dialogue." [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you an answer after my speech. Thank you. To prevent possible fire. Attention! Rescuers rushed into the crowd to prevent possible fires from flying blind. They were accompanied by police officers. And this once again caused a violent, aggressive reaction from the crowd. The protestors began throwing firecrackers and fireworks at the defenders. In fact, it's a miracle that none of the cops got hurt. We understood that whatever we did in such a situation would lead to an escalation of conflict. It is evident that the protestors acted as boldly as possible in order to provoke law enforcement officials to respond actively. Whatever happens next, it's easy to imagine. Think of the same action on February 23 of this year. This time, the organizers opened up, and this was confirmed by the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, and in the annotate, the participants were called upon to take bandages and medications with them and were ready to force their forces against the police. The action was carefully planned and planned. Before the official start of the presidential office, about 19 a.m., dozens of young people gathered in sports. They were holding on to groups. Obviously, this was supposed to be help in the event of a fight with the police. Moreover, among the participants in the event were minors who copied the aggressive actions of older rallyers, were the children deliberately involved? Because criminal responsibility for these acts does not extend to them. Is this the way to raise the next generation of rallyers? In any case, the participation of minors in such measures is unacceptable and dangerous. You can be sure that the law enforcement officers on the spot were enough, and we could have intervened pretty quickly, but it was decided not to get caught up in the manipulations and provocations that the directors of this action wanted us to do. These provocateurs tried to show the world how the police and the authorities allegedly violated the constitutional right of citizens to protest peacefully. But we broke their plans. And the main thing is that they didn't allow collisions and bloodshed. Maybe we let someone down. At 8:10 a.m., the man broke the windows on the front door of the office, and the other pilots threw the balloons inside. And they ended their protest by the activists at 20:35. With what? Salutami. What remains of the so - called peace action? The facades and doors of the building were demolished, the Shinkhedian inscriptions and the mountains of garbage. The contestants used more than a hundred fireworks, more than 80 firecrackers, dozens of balloons, and bottles of paint, 15 salad plants, and these are just previous estimates. According to our data, more than one and a half thousand participants took part in the event, a little more than five percent of them taking active aggressive action, 5 percent. According to the facts, four articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Code have been investigated. The hooliganism is done by a group of individuals who use objects prepared in advance to cause bodily harm. Deliberate destruction or damage to property. Abuse of State symbols, manufacture, distribution, and public use of Nazi symbols. So far, police investigators have reported the suspicion to seven persons, in agreement with prosecutors. A man of 25 years is a bully. Broke the President's front door. He's got a knife removed. According to the court’s ruling, he is under house arrest. He had previously been involved in criminal responsibility for desertion and carrying cold weapons. In addition, yesterday, on this suspect, police officers assembled an administrative protocol for the arbitrary acquisition of the right to bear public prizes. Because the President’s Office officially announced that the figure was not rewarded with State rewards. The Order of Bogdan the Hmelnicke third degree has been removed. Next figure. A man of 26 years is a bully. About the swastika he painted on the President's office wall. The symbol really did appear after the end of the 23:35 action, and we set this person up. I will not reveal the details until all the procedural documents have been properly drawn up. And for the rest. No matter what merit those who have committed wrongdoing have. The law should not know selectiveness. The time of indulgence is long gone, because the rule is the only thing anyone who has broken the law will be responsible for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u11	Thank you, Igor Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. I think everything else will be able to answer the question when they sound from whom. The report is given to the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Alexei Alexandrovich Suhachev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u12	Good afternoon, Mr. Head. Good afternoon, fellow MPs. Certainly, the events that took place on March 20 at the Office of the President of Ukraine have nothing to do with democratic will, discredit power and undermine trust in the law enforcement system. And today, our task with you, honourable national deputies, is to ensure a quick, objective and impartial investigation into all the circumstances of these socially dangerous phenomena. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that any allegations or reports of criminal offences committed during these events have not been made to the State Bureau. At the same time, with the aim of reacting urgently to the State Bureau of Investigation in liaison with the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Police of Ukraine has conducted a set of preparatory measures aimed at setting up organizers and participants in misconduct. According to the results, there were no allegations of riots or other illegal acts by the Ukrainian national deputies. To date, investigators are also studying whether public order protection has been properly ensured during the conduct of the action, which will result in an appropriate legal assessment and, on legal grounds, ensure that the perpetrators are brought to justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that the State Bureau of Investigation will not stay away and act solely within the limits of competence and legislative authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u13	Thank you, Alex Alexanderovich. Please have a seat. Dear colleagues, I now ask you to sign up for a question from the MP factions and groups. But once again, I remind you that questions about the situation that colleagues are informing us about today. Because we've had a recent D.B.I. report and please ask on the subject. Please sign up for the factions and groups. Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u14	Please pass the word to Drabowski. To Drabovsky, give him the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u15	Thank you. I have a question for Bhakanova's head. An illegal military group has recently been discovered, and ex - atolls are present. Do you not see this as a persecution of ATO heroes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u16	Thank you for asking. We don't really share. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u17	Please turn on Bakanov's microphone. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u18	Thank you for asking. We have repeatedly pointed out that we do not divide people into patriots or patriots. We divide people into those who break and do not break the law. We try to act, not with emotion, but only within the limits and in the manner prescribed by the law. With regard to illegal military formation, we believe that we have provided society with much information about the activities of this grouping. And you can actually decide for yourself how objective or subjective we were. Instead, I would like to remind you that a person is innocent until his guilt is established by a legal judgment of a court, and only a court will make a point in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u19	Thank you, Ivan Hennadiovich. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u20	Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u21	Geo Leros. Geo Bagratovich Leros, but on the subject of events, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u22	Except the question wasn't the subject, by the way. Dear Ukrainians, last week we saw videos with business partner Ivan Bakanov and Zelenski. So I have a question next to Lieutenant Bakanova, who grew up on a trip with Zelenski and led the Quarter 95 since 2013. In 2011, Bakanov became a criminal leader of the BSS, when Bakanov and his partners in the criminal scheme took possession of state hydropower plants. Then Bakanova anointed Zelenski through the Head of the Horoshkovsky Society, to whom Zelenski served on the Inter. The next question concerns us Ukrainians. Green got you out of jail because you're a friend of Greenie's childhood or because you've been doing Greenie's money-laundering since the 2000s? That's what we learned from your business partner Lazutin, by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u23	Thank you for asking. I don't know if the microphone's working or not working. It's working. You know, in principle, we don't comment on rumors and videos of people being drunk or influenced by certain substances. In principle, your narratives are nothing different from the pre-election narratives that sounded about the political power that I was in at the time. So, Mr. Leros, Lieutenant Bakanov answers you, everything you say is quite a feat, and you continue to discredit the power that the Ukrainian people trust. Basically, in any country.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u24	No, he's answering you. Geo Bagratovich, no, he's good for you. You mentioned him, he answers. Thank you. Lucnyak Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u25	Good afternoon. Mikola Lušnjak, trust MP. I have a question for the Head of the Police. Today, this incident happened, let's say, very loud, it could be compared to the events that took place in Ukraine in 2014, when our national symbolism in Crimea, our coat of arms, the flag was trampled into the swamp, and we see what these events today have led to military action. So I think the people who did this should be punished. I would like to draw your attention to the need for the police to work more meaningfully on such actions. And I think that the information on such shares should also be expanded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u26	I understand it's a question of how it doesn't exist. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u27	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. I have a question for Arsen Borisovich, Minister of Internal Affairs of Habakkuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u28	Dear colleagues, let's go to the reporters. We have three reporters: Klimenko, we have Bakanov, and we have DBR, Sukhov, Suhachev, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u29	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Head, okay, then I have a question for Mr. Klimenko, which I want to divide into two parts. The first is, of course, because you have seen a clear organization of the Ukrainian Security Service, why no preventive measures have been taken to stop and prepare these actions. And secondly, in the right-hand country, if we're building a democratic legal country, do you think that this initiative of the national deputies to put the issue in the session room is completely unnecessary because we're building a legal country. You have to act within the framework of actual legislation, in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code. Give me an answer, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u30	Thank you for asking. I'd like to remind everyone that we had three shows. The first series was February 23, after the decision of the Odessa Coastal Court regarding Sternenka’s case. And a very fast two-hour action by activists had already arrived in Kiev, and we didn't let them into the President's Office because there were children's attractions there, and you saw it all pouring out. The next time, on Saturday, five days later, there was a similar action involving more than 3.5 thousand people. And I and the stockholders and other law enforcement agencies have done preventive work to maintain order in the conduct of peaceful action. And as you saw at the President's Office, where we put these three thousand people, everything went smoothly. The same negotiations took place before the third action, which we are talking about today, is already sobering. And all the organizers of the campaign also assured us that everything would be peaceful and give us the right to a peaceful protest. We gave this right, put 80 people in the "police dialogue." And that's what we've come across, on the one hand, your question is perfectly logical, but we're looking at the entire preventive work system in our nation, which the National Police are doing, we can't suspect everyone, we're trying to trust them first, and then we're using certain and sometimes hard enough according to the law of action. And that's what we're going to do in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u31	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u32	Thank you. Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u33	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u34	In fact, it is a disgrace that the entire Head of the U.S.S.A. handles painted doors and broken windows. I only have one question, and you don't have any other business? We have a few days before we can take the oath of a citizen of the Russian Federation, and you can take it up and give it to Zelenski to cancel Ukrainian citizenship. I have a question for the Ministry of Internal Affairs. You don't have much more to do than catch activists, either? You set up your deputy foreign minister, Heratchenko, in five minutes, has already found the client, so he can remove him from this position by the time of the investigation, because it was clearly a political statement. And I have one more question: please tell me, what kind of photos do you define as certain people when they represent black squares in court? And finally. We're demanding our faction to meet with the National Police because now, just now, a National Police officer has been caught spying on a deputy from Kyivrada.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u35	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u36	Dmitry Alexanderovich, I'll begin with your permission, because Mr. Arryev came to me first. Mr. Arier, thank you for asking, it is not really about what we are discussing, since our function is counterintelligence, including mass action. If you've noticed, if you've been listening to me, then all the information we've accumulated on these measures, we've sent it to the competent response authority. We want to, we don't want to -- we need to do this because our enemy is actually using these actions to fight Ukraine in information space. Thank you for asking. And we do everything, we do it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u37	Thank you. A minute at Nacpol, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u38	Well, first of all. First of all, we've had 30 law enforcement personnel in the past, so I'm going to do that with respect to the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens and the life and health of law enforcement personnel, which is my direct duty. That's the first one. As for your last question, what does "captured" mean, what does "deleted" mean? There's the D.B.I., there's the Criminal Code, there's the Criminal Procedure Code. Let's work within it. And as for your statement, we're going to conduct a background check, and we're going to put the material in the D.B.I. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u39	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u40	Dmitry Lubinets, MP's Party for the Future. I have two questions. First question to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Ivan Hennadijovich, please tell me in your statement you said that it was already established that some of the actions, the peaceful actions were carved out of the territory of the Russian Federation. Do you suppose that this action was the same from there, and do you expect similar actions in the future? And the second question to the head of the Ukrainian National Police. Please tell me, if everyone has seen what was happening under the office of the President of Ukraine, how will you in the future ensure the security of state buildings, government officials? And do you expect similar acts of vandalism again in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u41	Mr. Lubinets, thank you for asking. In fact, in my speech you referred to, I gave an example of an action that was inspired by the special forces of the Russian Federation. The direct action "tariff field" is an appropriate criminal case in the Herson Security Service of Ukraine. Do we expect similar shares? Of course, we expect because the enemy doesn't sleep, his task is to destabilize the situation in Ukraine for any reason, but our task is to re-monitor it before it happens, as a matter of principle, and we're doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Nazpol, Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u43	I want to say that we have thousands of similar actions throughout the region every year, and the National Police will ensure the order and observance of the rights and freedoms of our citizens throughout the country, not necessarily just the capital. And secondly, and secondly, what I'm going to say is, this action, this aggressive, active action under the President's Office, took up to nine minutes. The conclusions we came up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u44	Thank you. Please sign up for questions from members of the national team in six minutes, please. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna One minute questions and two minutes answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u45	You know, we're happy to see the Head of Security at the Supreme Council, we've forgotten since we saw Mr. Bakanov. And I think that all the security officers are a little bit surprised by the function that you're doing counterintelligence in peace protests, you might add: kindergartens, schools and so on, jobs may have confused the function with the National Police. But I still have a question, going back to Andria Aksionov, why wasn't there a criminal case? How was this person, in principle, admitted to, in connection with the absence of a criminal case, to the elections on Donetskina? That's the first one. And the second. You know, probably painted doors or broken under the President's Office -- far from counterintelligence, not territorial security. Not to ensure national security, and so on. Two of these questions, please. And the third. The trailer to the National Police, you know, everyone knows very well the work of the IMF and when they draw the symbols of the nationalist regime that are banned in Ukraine, you'll probably never tell who it was, because it was more likely to be your coworkers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u46	Ivan Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u47	Mrs. Bobrowska, thank you for asking. Perhaps if it weren't for our function, we wouldn't be invited to comment on these events to the Supreme Council. This is the first time. Secondly, as I pointed out in my speech, a very thin line between a peaceful action that turns into a forceful action, and it's about the sovereignty of Ukraine. So I think that there's nothing that doesn't meet the requirements of the law in the Security Service's work on monitoring and counterintelligence of peaceful actions to study sources, for example, sometimes funding. It's a separate question that I think we're going to raise further on the committees. For example, establish responsibility for the payment of shares. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Aksionov. Everyone's working with Aksion, don't worry. I answered right away. You're just not listening, you're yelling.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u48	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u49	Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u50	Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u51	First of all, I'd like to respond to Lieutenant Bakanov's lines. Greens with their pre-election campaign and debates are a complete fairy tale. He didn't just betray the Ukrainians, he betrayed his entire environment. That's the first one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Second of all, about your fairies. Thanks to Naumov and Bjelovov, you have started to smuggle illegal circulation of alcohol, smuggling, rackets, and trade with ORDLO. Who else was sitting here talking about fairies? You will personally be responsible for this! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u52	I'm so aware that the answer isn't supposed to be here. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u53	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Polyakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u54	Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u55	Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u56	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u57	I have a question for Bakanov Ivan Hennadiovich. I remember you're in November of the 18th. You've already learned how to answer, very well to answer, but what do you get paid for all this time? Say it, please. Did you answer or put a dot in all those things that really bother Ukrainians, not what happened under the President's Office? It's about German films, about Yusik's films, about other Andrey's films, or about scraps, or about coal coming from an uncontrollable territory of the Russian Federation through the foundations of the firm that our TEC consumes. And they're run by you in the B.S.U., and they're billions of dollars that are ripped from the pockets of our Ukrainians. And somehow you're not covering up these billions of schemes, and now you're sitting there telling us something about how you're doing things.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u58	You know, while you're training in your philological arts, actually the Security Service works. And it works out all the results that you mentioned. You asked for the Jermak tiles, so I'd like to remind you of who you caught on Jermak's shallows. Those who generated these messes, as if there were some kind of corruption, turned out to be the first corrupter. Why did you forget to ask? Please tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u59	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u60	Thank you. Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u61	Sophia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u62	Before the acting Director of the DBD. From the information we have just received from the Head of the U.S.S.A., we realize that there is a situation of criminal failure to perform the duties of the Ukrainian National Police. So the question to the police will probably be for you to investigate, the head of the D.B.I. Who was on the roof of the President's office? Who allowed that man on the roof of the President's office? Who of the special services could benefit from this? Next question. When will officials be held accountable for the baseless accusation of Antonenko, Kuzmenko, and Dugar? And the third question. When will the traitors who failed the "vagres" operation be suspected? When questioned, will the German and Zelensky be questioned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u63	There's a minute left to answer. Please turn on 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u64	Thank you for asking. For those of you who have been listed. At present, the State Bureau of Investigation is working closely with the National Police, and we talk about the results every day. And if actual data were to be found that would indicate a criminal offence that would be attributed to the D.B.I.'s, an appropriate decision would be made and a pre-trial investigation would be conducted. As for other questions, I believe they are not referred to today's session, but we will be ready to answer. Please send an official or we invite you to a personal meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u65	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u66	Honorable Presidium, Honourable National Deputies, Citizens of Ukraine, Leaders of the Law Enforcement Authorities present in the Hall! The Party for the Future MPs, and I'm sure everyone here supports the opportunity to step out of Ukraine for a peaceful protest. It's written in our Constitution, and we certainly all support it. But as head of the Human Rights Committee, I can tell you that one person's rights end right where another person's rights begin. Instead of peacefully protesting, can we go out and do acts of vandalism? No, of course not. I was surprised to hear from some politicians today that this action was meant to show that we need to restart the judicial system. I was personally watching all the videos, I didn't see any posters, I didn't personally see the painted facade of the President's Office, demanding that the court be reinstated. I think that if the goal was just to restart, to draw the attention of the President of Ukraine, the Parliament to the disgraceful conduct of the judges, to relaunch the judicial system, then the peaceful protesters would come out and definitely not be disturbed by the National Police, as she did. There was definitely no need to paint anything, something to crush, something to break. It was necessary, and everything was done to ensure that peaceful protestors expressed their peaceful protest. In Ukraine’s history, there are many examples of people coming out, and because of the peaceful expression of their thoughts, they changed the political system, they changed power, they changed the political system. But this is definitely not the case. Therefore, we make it clear that if such actions are to attract attention by vandalism itself, they should be held accountable. The law enforcement authorities should and should do so. All the people who took part in this and those who organized it. And, of course, again, just like the person representing Ukrainian Donbas, it was very interesting to see all of these footage then on Russian television channels, where the other day they told me that in Ukraine, the Fascist regime. And so it was made that Russian propagandists seemed to have nothing left to say about Ukraine, and here they were just presented with these stories, with swastika, painted symbols, painted facades of the President's Office and burning the National Herb of Ukraine. So let's draw conclusions. And the law enforcement has to give their assessment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u67	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u68	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". It is good that today, during our meeting, there are all the powerful structures that we can communicate with. Trust Group will support this decision. First. A peaceful protest. A peaceful protest, as was done by miners under the President's Office. At that time, however, Michael Wolinz was beaten by law enforcement authorities and criminal conduct was not brought to a logical conclusion. I wanted to be heard today, taken into account, and yet brought to a logical conclusion, and informed the Volinz national deputy, the head of all the coal miners’ unions, why it happened. Secondly, how many of these tribunals have reported crimes committed, killings have taken place in the Luhansk region of 16 people. I would like to do it today instead of a power that hasn't made a moment of silence or respect for these people, which is the greatest fire in the history of Ukraine: 40 percent of Lugansk burned down with people. No one even respected the memory of these people. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of 16 people who died during the greatest fire in Ukraine’s history. [[A Minute of Silence]] I am now addressing the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Ivan Bakanov, on the basis that the head of the military and civil administration, a dissident inside the peaceful Ukraine, has committed crimes, and so far the Ukrainian Service for 110 articles has not violated criminal conduct. I don't know if he's a collaborator or a separatist or anyone else, he's a killer. His last name is Guy Sergey Volodymyrovich, who hides behind the roof, I don't know, my best man. Secondly, I am addressing the Ministry of Internal Affairs: to violate the criminal conduct of article 4 for part four for the murder of people. And also to remove, not release, but to remove and lead the matter to a logical conclusion, as defined by the Temporary Investigation Commission of Fires. Because it has already been proved by the National Deputies, not by the investigation, but by the National Deputies, which took place in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u69	Thank you. Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u70	. [[Unheard]] Napkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u71	The love of Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u72	Thank you. Of course, many words can be coined to justify what happened under the Office of the President. Sternenko thanks all of us for our peaceful action? What are you talking about? Was this action peaceful? Let's talk about it and thank you for not having been revealed under the article "Mass Uprising." Although all the qualifications here are: pogroms, arson, destruction of property. And it's all live in front of dozens of cameras. People who want to live in a democratic state break windows in a government office, destroy the facade of a building, and burn state symbols. What kind of democracy are we talking about today? Enough to confuse democracy and permissiveness. There was a violation of the law. The guilty must be punished, and they will be punished. So what's the discussion here anyway? Which one of us went to the social networking pages of such activists? Look, they've spent their whole lives relying on one share to the other. What do these people who are studying do, how many taxes have been paid to the state? Are we used to heroizing and assigning heroes to rebels? Perhaps it is time to face the law. Burn the government's coat of arms. What should be in these people’s heads? What state do you stand for? Are you standing up for the destruction of state symbols today? At least a thousand times they can repeat that the participants in Saturday's action, the patriots, the main actions of their actions, have eloquently told about their patriotism and their attitude towards state symbols. In the center of the capital, a swastika was adorned on all television channels. And they'll remember us with this swastika. And on the walls of the President's office. This is not in the heart of anyone who remembers the horrors of the Nazi regime. First of all, I want to say how this doesn't sound, but it's good that activists have the opportunity to show themselves. Understandably, they wanted blood, and they wanted to show that the police had attacked them, used gas, or beaten them. But the police held on. And there was no violence. Accordingly, the results have shown themselves: to destroy – not to build. A lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u73	Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u74	What was meant to be a shiver was true, fellow workers. You know, I saw your movie from the National Police. Well, it's just scary, I'm not going to sleep tonight. I heard the scariest thing about it: "Putin is a bitch!".. I hope it's not under the corruption of Ukraine's state symbols you're cheating on. Because it's probably a state you're confused about. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next. I have the next question. What are you doing? [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u75	Colleagues! Dear colleagues, let us choose the terms in the walls of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u76	Colleagues, you see, the objection is, "Putin is a whore!".. And I can do it again, you know. And in Nacpol's movie, he told you that. I have a second question for you, colleagues. Where did this door get hurt during this protest? This is the main victim of these protests! We are a whole meeting of the Supreme Council (a disgrace to these walls in general!) They've gathered for the first time in history, because we have this kind of sacrifice called the "painted door" that now runs on TV channels, and there are no other victims. Let's get this shake to the end. I have a constructive proposal for you not only to decide to accept it, but also to amend the Criminal Code to criminalize the word "loch" so that it cannot be written. Or you could actually do something else: "I'm not a moose!" - to allow the presidents of Ukraine to be used. Let's make some more changes to the budget to lay the wall wash after the protests, but not less than 2 million dollars, because we don't know how to wash walls for less, do we? Let's call the door a victim, but only if it's the President's office door, because that's really all about it, right? You know, I have this feeling that this door is a symbol of modern Ukraine, because there are millions of Ukrainians living on one side of that door, and on the other side there are residents of Bank Street who live in a hot tub and who lack one big bubble like this collective session of beating up the main country's rapists who have been chosen by bad comedians. You know, on the side where millions of Ukrainians live, there's a war today, there's people dying in hospitals in the Coronavirus, there's a different fetish today, and there's a door talking about oxygen concentrators. And if you want to talk about topical topics for the country, you need to talk about concentrators, you want to talk about the door so that people, apart from these doors, don't see anything else, because it's your osmosis. I don't like it when soap gets in my eyes, it's unpleasant for the Ukrainians, too. This comedy that was set up today in the walls of Parliament with all this discussion being thorough.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u77	Sussun Inna Romanovna Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u78	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Dear Ukrainians, do you know what cynicism and hypocrisy look like in the walls of this House? It's when you have a catastrophic SOVID disease in your country, and more than 300 people die every day. And the vaccine will be finished, in a matter of days. Hypocrisy is when you have failed judicial reform in your country. Ports and Wolfes celebrate, and President Zelensky cements the Mafia's integrity to mantiacles. It's when you have a budget hole in your country, and the IMF talks are broken. And that's when we have the seventh year of war, and they have, you know, a door. But all these questions did not give rise to our extraordinary meeting. The reason was the painted door that they carry around the country and try to tell us that this is the main problem. But, dear fellows, it means only one thing, this door and what you're carrying with it, is fear of the street, it's fear of people, and it's the desire to shut everyone's mouth. I mean, it's not going to work. You know, at the previous multi-tousal rally, there was zero, although the street prefers a lack of justice, but the president kind of took water into his mouth and said that nothing was going on. What can people do if there is no answer? Right, play the show and move the accents, because it's convenient. And you've seen it as a regime all week, and even more in the media space, you haven't discussed anything at all except the damn door. But I'll also say that we're not going to be able to put a sign equal to that between peaceful protests and fascism. Anyone who followed the action was seen, the swastika appeared after the action was completed. The action ended at 8:49 p.m. and the case was opened at 8:12 p.m. It's a flashing robot. I'm grading. But when it comes to hunting activists, not fighting a garbage state. I would like to say that if you have already talked about the door, bring with you the door from the Preeslav Police Department, where drunk mints killed five - year - old Cyril. If you have talked about the door, bring an antigas similar to the one who dressed up in Ukraine and raped her all night at the police station. That didn't bother you. Finally, bring the door from the SIZO cell where Andrew Antonenko is sitting from the SIZO cell where Sergio Sternenko sits while there is an appeal in a politically motivated case. This determination is cynicism and disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. Let us thank the heads of law enforcement authorities for the information provided. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Ordinance on Condemning Events, which took place on March 20, 2021, at the Office of the President of Ukraine (registration number 5295). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session of the draft Decision condemning the events on March 20, 2021, at the Office of the President of Ukraine (registration number 5295). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[6:20:30.]] For 236 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u80	Dear colleagues, we must continue to take up this issue by means of a simplified procedure. Show by factions. Then we have to take up the issue of a simplified procedure, which requires 150 votes. So, honourable colleagues, I'm putting the question to the vote to consider this motion for a summary ruling. Please support and vote. [[18:21:15]] For 237 Decision taken. I would like to invite you to speak to the rapporteur of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Alexander Sergiyovich Bakumova. Yeah? Who? Uncluded Vladen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u81	Dear colleagues, distinguished presidency, dear Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u82	Four minutes, please, from the committee and from.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u83	Today we are considering with you a decree condemning events near the Office of the President of Ukraine on 20 March of this year. And you know, it's very good that we just saw all of these videos to get as objective a picture as possible of what happened 10 days ago. Because these events were a shock to every Ukrainian who thinks that democracy is not the form of a system of creation, where a small group of people, replacing the notions of peaceful assembly and expression, gathered under the Office of the President of Ukraine and, in itself, did not boldly support and distribute Nazi symbolism. Even though these people knew for certain that they were deputizing the eighth vocation, that our predecessors with you had passed the Law in 2015 on the Conviction of Communist and National Socialist Nazi Regimes and the Prohibition of the Propaganda of Their Symbolism. In addition, this group of young people who were to exert pressure on President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine, somehow forgetting that the Institute of Presidencies is not an appeal. This is not the Court of Appeal of Odessa, which is the only legitimate body, by the way, for the moment, who can decide the fate of Sterenko and Demchuk convicted. They have abused the state symbol of Ukraine, the State Herb of our country, the abuse of the saint, the abuse of the Sign of the Prince of Vladimir the Great. This group of several hundred people has been disrupting public order for a long time, causing mass upheavals, that is, everything Nestor Nemo once dreamed of, about his country playing field. It's not gonna work, Ukraine is not a play field. Ukraine is not a playground for performing "Neon-Nazi" plays. In early 1933, the president of Germany, Paul von Hinderburg, made a mistake, succumbed to pressure from the Nazis, and thereafter paid the world for it for millions of innocent lives. We have to close our eyes on this, what happened, we have to say that nothing, any of it will, all of it will go away. No, we can't do that, but we have to support President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine, like all the national authorities of the country, to show our unity, our principles, our determination and our support for democracy. It is exactly what the Committee on Law Enforcement showed yesterday, by an absolute majority of votes in favour of this decision. By this decree, we demand that the BSS, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the DSB quickly, fully and impartially investigate and provide a legal assessment of the events that took place on 20 March under the Office of the President. To study the circumstances of the events that took place on March 20th to participate in these events of any political party or associated person. Identify the level of guilt of participants, organizers, and contracting parties in the cause of material harm to the State and ensure that the perpetrators are brought to criminal liability. Every week, in an order established by legislation, provide the Committee on Law Enforcement with relevant information on the course of the investigation of events that took place on 20 March under the Office of the President of Ukraine. By supporting this decision, honourable colleagues, we support both the President of Ukraine and all state bodies, including ourselves, as parliamentarians, we support the foundations of democracy as such. We help to realize both the preventive and the educational function of law. We show our dignity and readiness to fight for the rule of law and order in our society, the inviolability of punishment. As the prophet of the Ukrainian nation Taras Grigorovich Shevchenko once said, "And the shameful hour will be forgotten, and the good glory will be brought to life, the glory of Ukraine, and the world will be bright, the evening will shine silently. Now embrace yourselves, my brothers, I pray you, I pray you.".. Dear colleagues, let us unite in order to vote on this decision as a basis and as a whole with the committee’s rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this determination? Yes. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. The word is given to the People's Deputy Ustinsky Alexandri Yuriyevna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u85	Give Macarevo a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u86	Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u87	Dear colleagues, dear friends, distinguished opponents! We are meeting today for an extraordinary session of the Ukrainian Parliament. I'm addressing all the opponents of the Dignity Revolution. I'm addressing all the participants and opponents of the Orange Revolution. I am addressing the Home Secretary to the Head of the Security Service and every deputy who is currently in the Hall. Dear colleagues, it's not our level to discuss the door. The law enforcement authorities should investigate the case and Parliament should monitor the law enforcement authorities to ensure that such investigations are conducted in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. It's not the level of the Security Service to spend their time investigating painting at the President's Office. The Security Service has far more important, very relevant things to listen to. And I'm talking to the people's deputies -- it's not your level to listen and vote for these decisions, they just disconnect us, they just disconnect the street, they just stir up the street. We need to calm down now and say that we will no longer have such decisions, and we will not hold such successive congregations. We have to work to adopt laws to enable everyone's rights and freedoms to be realized, not to investigate simple, ordinary cases to be investigated, not by the Security Service, but by the National Police to report to us, but we to control the legality and correctness of such an investigation. Thank you, my colleagues. I look forward to your level in the vote for this ruling. We all have a high level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u88	The word is given to national deputy Kachuri Alexandr Anatolyyevich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u89	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. In fact, I think it's going to be hard to find a person in this room and those who are looking at us right now who can stand up against a legitimate and sacred peace protest in Ukraine. But not during the first revolution, not during the Dignity Revolution, no one allowed themselves to be profaned by State symbols, was always respectful of institutions. What happened? There was a provocation that I think was planned by individual political forces to get a picture for the TV channels. Look, they beat up patriots there, look, they're being chased! But we got another picture, and in this case, we've got separate policies for the Russian Federation, because based on this picture that they're going to broadcast over the years, the people now occupied by Crimea and Donbas are going to show, look, there's a show of fascists, see what's going on in the center of Kiev. You're moving us away from peace in Ukraine and you're going to win at the hands of the enemy of the Russian Federation. To demand justice by such methods is the same as to require a cashier to issue a check with a gun. Each elected window in the President's Office is actually a crack in the principles of our statehood. That's why we advocate that we have justice in the country, and we're in favour of having one law for all: both for activists, and for every citizen, and even for past presidents.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u90	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u91	Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, I don't think we're going to see any dot or answer to all of these investigations, because when the head of the BSB in the parliamentary-presidential republic responds to what Lieutenant Bakanov has just said, well, what can we talk to you about? It seems to me that we have a substitution of notions here when we correct, more faithfully, justify the bandits, and we're really chasing those people we don't need to chase. We need to understand that there were no orders like this when the same people with the eviction were after the judge of the Constitutional Court, and all of this was done by both the Greens and the "ministers of the people" and the law enforcement authorities. No one was paying attention to anything. I think what happened under the President's Office is the result of the President's activities, the result of his Kabmin's activities, the result of his people's "servicing" activities, and the sole responsibility of him for all that was under the President's Office. And law enforcement should not waste their time right now, what they're doing because of your decision, but really work on the things that will turn billions into our budget, and really open up the resonant things that they have. Not now to spend things on our chat rooms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, another introduction by the national deputy Gerasimov, then we move on. And one minute BUT is what? Please. Fatherland, I'm sorry. Hermit Irina Volodymyrna, then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u93	We are now witnessing the degradation and collapse of the Ukrainian Parliament, which was previously observed only in the State of the Russian Federation. Misulina here is just not enough with such bills. Actually, we've been told in this country for a week that the door is a state symbol. Instead of taking care of what is really a national symbol. And this is the Ukrainian army, and this is the health of the people that no one is dealing with today, and these are other subjects that are today. They live in a country. Most of us today spend three hours on this cheap show, and we see the degradation of the law enforcement and power structures of a warring country that does not do what it needs. You know, there's Vlada Ariev in this room, there's Sergey Rachmanin, we've been working in political journalism for a long time, and we've seen how in Yanukovich's day, we've been turning the country into a police state, trying to intimidate Yanukovich, Kuchma with some sort of insurrections every day, and that's how police structures and power structures have been strengthened. And actually I want to say that when we talk about the need for respect for public institutions today, maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u94	Dear colleagues, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u95	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u96	Stop, time. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, calm down, please. Dear colleagues, calm down, please. Peter Alexiovich, I'll take care of it. Calm down, please. Let us find a relationship outside the Supreme Council by means of a duel. [[B in m in s a l in]] Peter Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, she's not finished, I'll give her time to finish, then we'll go to the speeches or to the vote depending on. Please give Irina Volodymyrovni Heratchenko one and a half minutes. She's not finished.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u97	Dear Ukrainians, we continue to see the degradation of the Ukrainian Parliament today. They thought new faces came in here, and people came in here without principles, without rules, which are called state symbols, but they're allowing themselves to humiliate the President of Ukraine, to humiliate the House because there's an unbelievable man in the front row, a Ukrainian national MP. And we demand from the conclusion of today's session the following: First. The police have now removed our parliamentary immunity, now to conduct an alcohol test by a national MP called "S" from the front row of the testimony. The other one. We've heard that clearing companies are ready to clean the door for 80,000, not 2 million. We're asking the NABU to study the questions, and so the casts work in this "great theft" of the name of the President's Office, even to wash off graffiti, not to mention anything else. And the third. You know, it's a shame when you set up here today the strong structures of a non-fiction widow who has been pushing herself naked in public instead of exposing crimes, dealing with separatists with Russian passports who will enter the hall tomorrow. And we urge Mr. President of the Supreme Council to now address the CLTC about the inability to obtain the mandate of Mr. Aksionov, who was hiding in the occupied Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u98	All those who wish to speak? [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a motivator's thing. After Shahov. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u99	Dear colleagues! What do we have to vote on? The Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, the State Bureau of Investigation to ensure prompt, full and impartial investigation. Colleagues, they are obliged to do so in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code. Next. They offer to study the circumstances. They are obliged to do so in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code. Determine the degree of guilt. They are obliged to do so in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code. Next. It is suggested that during a three - day period the DSS determine the extent of the damage and after the blames have been set up, the damage will be compensated. They are obliged to do so in accordance with their duties. It's an empty decision about nothing. I would like to remind you that, according to the Ukrainian Constitution, MPs have no right to intervene in specific criminal investigations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u100	The word is given by Shah's Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u101	Sergey Shahov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, we demand an immediate meeting to convene Parliament without delay with such action. We do not condemn the peaceful gathering of people today. And what was today was hooliganism, well, you're investigating hooliganism. But today, we demand that we assemble an extraordinary session of Parliament on logging throughout the country, "burners" that should not have been "burners" picked up, but rather "greens". 175 articles, non-payment of wages to miners is an immediate meeting. Has anyone been punished? They didn't punish anyone. They killed people. They didn't punish anyone. And here we are gathering an entire session of Parliament, please say. So let us face the truth! Let us gather constantly on these matters! I turn to every half-breeding Ukrainian, every Ukrainian waiting to be sentenced, sentenced, convicted, true sentences for the murder of the Ukrainian people!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u102	Let's go to the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Decision on the Conviction of Events, which took place on 20 March 2021 at the Office of the President of Ukraine (Registration No. 5295). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:40:57]] For 237 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Ordinance on the short term termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Kolyhayeva (registration number 4447). Can we not discuss this? Discussed. Won't anyone insist? No discussion. I'll bet you a vote. You're one of them, dear fellows. Let's do it. We'll talk for a minute and we'll vote. Is there no objection? Irina Volodymyr's Heratschenko. But about the decision, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u103	Dear colleagues, we would like to remind you that today's Parliament has repeatedly violated legislation, including now that more than a month and a half have been delayed by the composition of parliamentary powers by those colleagues who have been elected in local elections to local authorities or led other institutions. Why is this being done? Because the party of power that brought this disadvantaged majority, and we'll mention that the Head of the Supreme Council just headed this list, they don't have community support today, and they've done everything they can to cancel the election in March of this year and postpone it until October of this year. We would like to stress that this is a gross violation of a law for which Parliament's leadership and regulatory committee are fully responsible. Because these votes were due to take place early in February, but unfortunately we see a violation of parliamentary work today. And we want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u104	Thanks for the show. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Ordinance on the short-term suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Kolyhayeva (registration number 4447). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[18:43:26]] For 252 Decision taken. The next question is the draft Decision to terminate the mandate of the People's Deputies of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Skyska. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Wait. Don't make any noise. Please. Alexander Aleksandrovich Skyczko is present in the hall today. I suggest we give him two minutes to speak. Is there no objection? And by the same procedure. Irina Volodymyrna once again criticises. And we'll vote. Two minutes, definitely. Two minutes, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u105	Good afternoon, Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! Friends! Dear Ukrainians! One and a half years ago, I entered the walls of this Supreme Council with the desire to change our country for the better. I have to admit that this has proved to be far more difficult than I thought. It's more complicated because the system works against any change. The system resists. And frankly, everyone wants it to be the way it has been for the last 30 years. But the changes have begun and they will continue. And this process is irreversible. I am 29 years old. I was born in Ukraine. And I believe that our country can be strong, prosperous, independent and independent. And it's not just words, it's the faith I came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The faith with which I return to my native Church. I'm going back because I want better results for my area. I want Cherkaščina to be the leader of the "great construction" in Ukraine. A leader in the development of the medical field. The leader in tourism development. A few facts about Cheech, which you probably didn't know. The largest Buddhist temple in Europe is located in Cherkaščina. The first bone marrow transplant was carried out in Cherkashina. The largest settlement in the world’s tropical culture is in Cherkashchen. And the first inoculated Ukrainian is also in Cherkishka. Grizzly is the heart of Ukraine. The Church is the home of Taras Shevchenk and Bogdan Hmelnick. I want to thank President Vladimir Zelenski of Ukraine for his trust. I want to thank each of you for your support. The head of the Supreme Council. Party heads. Heads of factions. Thank you very much. I want to thank my family and my wife for their patience. I want to thank my 197th district voters for trusting me. And I promise you you won't run out of deputies until you have him, I'll run and take care of the county as head of the district. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u106	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. I'm on my own. [[Applause]] I think I'll thank you for your work, both from my colleagues, and now we're going to the vote. I'll bet on it. Excuse me, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko, two minutes, please. Alexander Alexanderovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u107	Dear colleagues, we do have new, unfortunately, terrible rules of work in this Parliament because, in the old authorities, everyone was in time for their mandates when they were assigned. And now we have a national MP who's been illegally joining the national MP and the head of the government for months and a half. We have the Head of the Supreme Council, who comments on the position but does not notice his drunken associate in Parliament. Now, there are a few facts about Church, which even the head of the government doesn't know about, because that's not what he's doing. Did you know that the Spolyan Hospital and other hospitals do not have oxygen equipment today? And that's what the head of the government and his president, Zelenski, should be doing, not singing an ossana that's been in charge for a year now, but a Nazi committee to fight COVID. But we actually have the worst situation today on COVID around the world. And in Cherkishka, unfortunately, the rate of vaccination is also very dissatisfying. But why, dear friends, is this vote only taking place today? But because the "serve" rating in Church is going to zero. And in fact, there have been fears of holding elections, in the district where our team is putting out Roman Suschenka, a Kremlin politician and a worthy man who, fortunately, will represent the interests of the Church and the Ukrainian people much better. And the "servants" in Donetsk, where we just got back, we got 2 percent. In order not to be ashamed, they dropped the ballots to get 3 percent. That's why they, friends, you know, spent Aksionova there, a citizen of the Russian Federation who was actually hiding in the Kremlin and in the Crimea, and that's not what the Ukrainian Security Service notices. Here's what's going on with you. And the days before the elections in Cherchishka, including. We want to turn to the Voice, to the Fatherland, to the democratic forces. There is no alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u108	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Ordinance on the short-term suspension of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Skyczka, (registration number 5012). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:49:22]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you, Alexander Alexander. I wish you success in your new position and new achievements. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Order for the selection of the Kharkiv City Head of Kharkiv District (registration number 5292). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. Here's the committee's report. [[18:50:09]] For the 220. Decision taken. The Deputy Head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and Zagreb’s Alina Leonidivna are invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u109	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Actually, I want to start my speech not with the question of the election, but with the speech of the previous person, our colleague, who said it was a complete nonsense, that it seemed that the Supreme Council had always been called on time for the election. So I want to tell you, when we arrived, a new vocation, we had over two hundred unelected elections on the committee. That is what ignoring the constitutional rights of our citizens means. And now, essentially. The question of the appointment of elections in Kharkiv was indeed delayed, but it was not the fault of our parliament. I'll remind you of a short history. On December 31, Kharkiv City Council came to the attention of the committee regarding the appointment of consecutive elections in Kharkiv in connection with the death of Gennady Kernes. However, failing to comply with all the requirements of law, the Harkow City Council did not add the appropriate decision to take on the known fact of death. The committee, in turn, pointed out these shortcomings to the Kharkiv City Council, and only on February 24, the committee received a full package of documents. And at its meeting on March 17, this year, the committee discussed the question of the appointment of a standstill election in connection with the death of the city’s head, Kernes Hennady Adolfovich. After considering the matter, after considering the relevant decision added to it by the Kharkiv City Council, the committee endorsed the conclusion of recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 85, paragraph 30, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as to part one of the first article 5 of article 194, part one of article 195 of the Ukrainian Electoral Code to appoint, in turn, the elections of the Kharkiv City Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u110	Thank you. Needed to Be Discussed? Two minutes. Then sign up. No, three factions. Please sign two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. I can't hear you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u111	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, the Trust Group will support this decision, and in every city there must be a foreman who is responsible, not just a MP Corps who is irresponsible. Secondly, I'd like to go to this room, to every national MP again, to look at the cities and villages where two criminals in Donetsk and Lugansk areas have introduced military and civilian administrations to rob. In these cities and villages, there were elections in 2014 that were crazy shootings, in 2015 there were local elections, in 2016 I was elected as Ukrainian national deputy, in 2017 and 2019 our parliament and President Vladimir Zelensky, in which Luhanšina voted and supported 96.3 percent. Today, those people have been left with the possibility and constitutional right to vote as the head of the city of Severodonetska and Lysicánska, two large cities where there are 150,000 people who are under the cabinets and who cannot hear them, and they cannot see where the money they have robbed is the size of a billion dollars. There were 465 million left in the Severerodonet City Council, and the head of the Hayday Military and Civil Administration also assigned a criminal and a thief there. And also in Lysicánsk, 267 million dollars were left in the accounts, today there's no money, there's no water, there's no infrastructure, there's no roads, there's no roads, there's no buildings, there's no buildings, there's no buildings, there's no roads, there's no buildings, there's no buildings, there's no roof. Today, we demand that the entire force block be disrupted by criminal conduct.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u112	Gerus Andrey Mihailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u113	Please give the floor to the representative of the famous city of Harkov Maria Mesentsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u114	Mesenchev Maria Sergiyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u115	Thank you, colleague, thank you, Mr. Head! Decent Harkians, Honourable Ukrainians! Today, at the conclusion of this extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are making an absolutely right, absolutely constitutional decision that is consistent with the current legislation. The second community by the number of people in our country. The second tax and budget community in our Ukraine is the city of Kharkiv, a city of millions. A city that has received more than 300,000 internally displaced persons. The city, which is two hours’ drive from the line of separation, is from the war, where our best military personnel have recently been killed by sniper bullets. Our community is developing and yearns for its European future every day. The only city in Ukraine with four European Council awards. Let's give our 226 plus our votes, let's show us 300 plus, and let's make it possible to hold the next round of elections in Kharkiv by the end of October. Life is flowing, different people are dying from COVID. The kingdom of the heavenly Hennadia Adolfovich Kernes to the former mayor of Harkov. This is life, regardless of what I was, for example, to his political power in opposition. I'm human, too. We must give these rights to the Harkowians, and we must hold worthy elections. Perhaps even within the framework of the pandemic, complete control, adequate calculation, and the choice of a new city head, checker, or checker. Colleagues, I call for a vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u116	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u117	Thank you. Bondar. Please, Bondar is Russian. Please give Irina Friz the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u118	Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u119	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head, thank you, colleagues. Actually, it's a really timely decision, and it's a good thing we're adopting it today. As to the question that she was there in some way slowed down, or indiscretion in the city administration, or some other kind of obstacle, but less so, we're going to vote and support the Order on Local Elections in Kharkiv, because we think that this is really a city that deserves quality democratic choices that have to be conducted in accordance with valid legislation. I sincerely hope that, despite the fact that we were unable to vote this decision in time for the elections to take place by the end of March, and now we're going to take place by the end of October, I want to point out that it's very peculiar that today, on this very day, the fans of the Shaktar and the Metalist Football Club with the famous playbook, went through the city of Kharkiv on this very day. So I hope that the entire patriotic and democratic community of the respectable city of Kharkiv will say "la la" to all the pro-Russian candidates during the electoral campaign. And as for the remarks made by the "Slut of the People" faction to our colleague, Irina Heratchenko. It was really about the location of positions that Irina Heratschenko was talking about. And about putting an end to the elections on time, not the election. This is about the purity of the discussions that are being held in the audience today. "European Solidarity" supports this decision and considers it necessary to vote for the maximum number of votes in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u120	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich. Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u121	Inna Sowsun, Voice Party. Dear colleagues, right now, for the last two hours, I've been watching what's going on in the Parliament Hall, and I have an insurmountable feeling that we're in some kind of absurd theater. But unfortunately, I have to admit that in the theater of absurdity, my own Kharkiv lives much longer. There's no headmaster in Kharkiv since August, no one's running the city. Local elections took place in the city, where under the name of the mayor, who was apparently no longer in the position of campaigning, came to power by some political power. Then came an absolutely absurd confession to the oath of Gennady Kernes, who was not conscious at the time. It's an absolutely absurd situation that two million Harks didn't deserve. Regrettably, the rakwans pay very dearly for this absurdity. As of today, 90 percent of the beds for patients with COVID have been filled in in Kharkiv. And that's a very optimistic statistic, because I definitely know hospitals that people can't go to right now. In the fall when the elections took place, Kharkiv had the highest percentage of private tests, since neither the city nor the state nor any authority in the city could provide access to tests for the Harkowians. This absurdity is very expensive for the Harkians. I'm very sorry that we just got to the election in Kharkiv. I really want democratic forces to come to power in Kharkiv. The Voice party is definitely going to be running these elections. We will participate in the local elections. We also believe that all democratic parties must unite in the city in order to defend a city that is in the truth very close to the line of separation. We will support this decision. I'll do it again. I'm sorry we just got to her. In October of the month, there will be more than a year before Kharkiv has a parole officer. Again, this is a very high price paid by the Harkowians today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-30-m2.u122	All those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order on the Assignment of Subsequent Elections of the Kharkiv City Head of the Kharkiv district of Kharkiv district (Registration No. 5292). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[19:02:53]] For 249 Decision taken. And the final issue of today's non-commissioned session is the draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of the Sheginov Rural Head of the Yavorov district of Lviv district (registration number 5291). I am betting on the vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order on Assignment of Elections (registration No. 5291). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:03:38]] For 245 Decision taken. Plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
