ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! Deputies! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? I remind you that for registration, we're pressing the green pros button. Please prepare for registration. Registration is starting. Please. [[10:06:20]] There's 181 people's deputies in this room. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Alexander Volodymyrovich Kovalczuk, and welcome to Jegor Volodymyrovich Czernjev. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Before we begin our work, I would like to report that, according to article 51, part seven, of the Rules, two MP factions are requested to announce a recess with a replacement for the performance. Please, who's going to perform? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, Mr. Denis Anatoliyovich, using presence, I want to say that Ukraine's agriculture is very concerned about the situation that has arisen around two agricultural institutions, it's the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food and State Food. Why so? We can't understand that some inconsistent and incomprehensible actions are going around these two ministries, these two institutions. Yesterday, literally in the evening, there was information in the media about the possible reorganization of the State's food service and its distribution between the three ministries, between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, between the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of the Economy. This distribution, if possible, will have disastrous consequences. Although yesterday, the Ministry of Economics printed a denial of this information. I want to say, and I want to ask you to answer that question. Because I want to remind you that State supply was created in the 16th year, it was very difficult and it was long established on European principles. And this service has done quite a lot to advance agricultural production in Ukraine to international markets. It implements European principles of food security. And those who say it's not the same thing, I mean, here's the European experience. Latvia is a Service of Food and Veterinary Affairs. Lithuania is the State Service of Food and Veterinary Affairs. Croatia is a veterinary service and food safety. Bulgaria is the Food Safety Agency. Denmark is the Veterinary and Food Administration. Finland is the Food Authority. The Netherlands is a food safety and consumer protection body. Belgium is the Federal Food Chain Security Agency. We want to break this chain, we want to make it stop exports, first of all, to Europe. And we can do that by denunciation of all our contracts. So I'm addressing you, please answer, what's going on with this service? And yesterday, by the way, here in this room, we took the first step towards breaking up this service when we voted in favour of the first reading of 4142, where we completely took the Sanepidamem Service out of this service. We completely interrupted what we had been creating for five years. You haven't broken up yet. And I say, in the second reading, throw it out and make corrections. This is impossible and unnecessary; the ministry must be properly built on European principles. The second question is the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. Is it hard to understand what's going on here? Is it not competence, or is it corruption, or is it ignorance? But we've completely eliminated the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, and now we're creating, we're saying that the Ministry of Agrarian Politics -- no, we're creating the Ministry of the State Department. There's nothing there except the Holdgeokadaster. And such a ministry is incomplete, it can't work, it can't do anything, and it won't be able to shape state policy. If we do that, just leave everything in the Ministry of Economics, because it won't work -- "deadborn child." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I report that the Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council. Hello. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, “the hour of questions to the Government ” is held on Friday, at 10 a.m. At the suggestion of the deputy factions and groups, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today will answer questions about the results of the quarantine measures undertaken by the Government of Ukraine in January 2021 and the implementation of the plan for vaccination of the population of Ukraine from COVID-19. Dear colleagues, the following order is proposed for the "hour of questions to the Government": to take 20 minutes of the Minister of Health of Ukraine to a speech on the topic, to answer a question-and-question report from the designated factions and groups to 21 minutes, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and to the members of the government to ask questions from national deputies to take up to 20 minutes, and to give one minute each oral question and two minutes to answer it. There's no objection, so let's move on. Honourable National Deputies, Minister of Health of Ukraine Maxim Volodymyrovich Stepanov is invited to the podium. Maxim Volodymyrovich, you've got 20 minutes. In addition, I will ask the national deputies of Ukraine to listen carefully to the reporter and move away from the government’s bed. Thank you. Please, Maxim Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u4	Olga Gloria, an anesthesiologist. She worked at Zaporezki District Hospital. In the year 2020, Zaporozhye State Medical University graduated from boarding school. She fought for the patients' lives until the last day, but unfortunately, she was killed by three of them, Valentina Flood, Alexander Zechariah and Maya Vagina. A moment of silence to honor the memory of the patient, Olga Glee, and all doctors who gave their lives for the health and life of Ukrainian citizens. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Dear Ukrainians, there's been a war against COVID-19 in Ukraine for 10 months now, an invisible enemy. There is a real army in this war -- these are our medical staff, our doctors. Those who directly assist patients with coronary disease: infectious doctors, anesthesiologists, other specialist doctors, and epidemiologists who determine how to fight so that the virus doesn't kill us. Quarantine measures are an important way to combat this war. It is very important to build a quarantine strategy so that they will always be effective. In addition, we had to find a balance between essentially epidemiological measures and the economic life of the country. I don't think there's anyone in this room who thinks that there's a very strong economy in Ukraine right now. That's why we had to balance and get a result: to stop the spread of COVID-19 in Ukraine and, as a result, to save the lives of Ukrainians. It is important that the losses in this war be as small as possible. The main objective at this stage of the fight against the pandemic has been achieved: Ukraine is 34 in Europe with mortality rates. Someone's looking for another opportunity, but once again, we're 34 in Europe at the rate of mortality. We have three times the death rate in Britain and twice the death rate in France. Let's face it: this is what, including the result of our quarantine measures. If you look at the construction of anti-epidemic measures, you will notice a clear sequence. We had an adaptive quarantine phase when, depending on the epidemic situation in each region, we introduced quarantine restrictions. When COVID-19 began to spread rapidly, we moved on to state restrictions. Yes, we had a period when we understood the need to impose severe restrictions, but we were held back by the economic situation of Ukraine. And then an effective compromise was found -- the quarantine of the day off. There were many criticisms at the quarantine of the weekend, and it was unacceptable. However, we have achieved the main objective of stabilizing the situation and then reducing the number of new cases. We also faced similar opposition during January’s hard quarantines, which took place in the country from January 8 to 24, including. They have a very clear logic: there have been New Year's holidays, increased mobility of citizens, which should have given rise to the number of patients with COVID-19. We're seeing the result of this severe quarantine right now. For several weeks, the number of patients is decreasing compared to each week. This information is supported by the corresponding figures. I want to remind you: in the first week of December we had 89,000 new cases on COVID-19, in the last week -- just 27,000 cases, less than 3 times. Two more digits. On December 1st, we had 28,000 patients who were hospitalized; they were patients with moderate and severe disease. Our doctors and nurses, health workers, struggle every day in their lives. They fight on Monday and Saturday, regardless of the day of the week. And now the number of these patients in our hospitals is 17,000 931. That's the result that we see in numbers. At this point in the fight, I think this is our common victory. The common victory of all Ukrainians, regardless of where they work: our doctors, nurses, health workers, supermarket workers, entrepreneurs, officials, national deputies -- all without excluding the people who have followed these quarantine measures and have responded with understanding. We see a concrete result: we've had fewer patients, and most importantly, we've saved the lives of a large number of Ukrainians. In addition to the figures I called, we took a big step. You can't even compare the readiness of the medical system to a challenge like the epidemic at the end of March 2020 with the medical system at the beginning of February 2021. We had 12,000 704 beds, provided for the treatment of patients with coronary disease, of which three and a half thousand were oxygenated. Today we have 66,000 848 beds for treatment of patients with COVID-19, over 56,000 beds provided with oxygen. I want to point out that we have achieved high results, regardless of the starting point from which we started the fight against the epidemic. Let me remind you that our medical system in March last year resembled more ruins. Now we have a clear understanding and a reliable strategy for the future that will provide for general anti-epidemic rules for the whole country, except for them, depending on the change in the situation in specific areas, local restrictions will be imposed. For example, if the pressure on the medical system is increased at a rate that could lead to a collapse, then the region will be exposed to a red level of danger that will provide for severe quarantine restrictions. For example: If 65 percent of filled beds with oxygen or growth are more than 50 percent hospitalized within 7 days, under such conditions the TEM and NS commission will impose severe quarantine restrictions in the area until the situation is stabilized. Today, Ukraine is approaching an important stage in the fight against COVID-national vaccination. It is up to each of us how our country will go through this stage. Our doctors have already done a great job. A new challenge lies ahead. The greatest effort and the greatest responsibility will be placed again on our heroes -- our medical staff. It is for them, our doctors, that will depend on the smooth and irresistible work of the entire mass vaccination mechanism. During this period of intense stress, it is important that physicians feel the care and care of the nations. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a road map of our country's vaccination. This is a carefully worked, thorough document published on the Ministry of Health’s website, so it is accessible to all without exception. This document is the result of the professional work of Ukrainian physicians and scientists, as well as the involvement of the experience of our foreign colleagues. We've gathered around the best: the experts from the Academy of Medical Sciences, the National Technical Group of Experts on Immunoprophylactics, the Biosafety and Biological Protection Commission of the National Security and Defence Council, the UNICEF and WHO experts. All of us today have to realize that vaccination is not a matter of the whole country, but of every citizen. The vaccination is about solidarity and mutual responsibility for their health, the health of their loved ones, the health of the country. The total number of vaccines that we should get at the COVAX initiative is 8 million doses. At the same time, thanks to our system work with COVAX, which we started in May last year, Ukraine joined a list of countries that will receive COVAX global vaccines from COVID-19 in the first wave of distribution. Soon in mid-February, we expect supplies to Ukraine of 117 thousand doses of Pfizer vaccine at the global COVAX initiative. The next supply of vaccines will take place from mid - February to the end of the third quarter of this year. At this stage, it is planned that Ukraine will receive from 2.2 million to 3.7 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccines. The Ministry of Health, together with the government, with other members of the government, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is constantly working with the countries of the Great Seven and the delegation of the European Union in Ukraine, asking to consider Ukraine as a potential priority candidate for COVID-19 vaccines. The mechanism and the possibility of providing early access to the vaccine within the limits of the allocation of the quota of the European Union is also being worked out. At the same time, work continues within the mechanisms of international interaction regarding access to vaccines. Ukraine has made a contract to supply the vaccine company Sinovac 1 million 913,000 doses, the supply of which should also start soon. I think today or in the coming days we'll get confirmation under other contracts also with supplies starting in February of this year. The vaccine will be carried out with an extremely safe vaccine, stressing to all Ukrainians – an exclusively safe vaccine that has undergone all the necessary clinical trials and has been approved in other developed countries. I will remind you that the National Plan for Vaccines will take place in five stages. In the first wave, vaccination will be carried out by mobile brigades. The total number of such mobile brigades is 572 units that we're going to enter gradually from the 50s and then increase depending on the region and depending on the rate of vaccination. And we can increase them fast enough. At the next step, along with the increase in vaccination coverage, 1,000 650 vaccination sites will be organized, and mobile brigades will also work. We will continue to gradually increase the number to 4,000 250 points and about 600 brigades. This number will enable us to ensure that the campaign is phased out and that there is a thorough training for health care professionals involved in vaccination. All vaccinations will take place on the basis of medical facilities. So at the first stage, the vaccine will be given to citizens at critical risk of infection and development of COVID, and to those who perform critical functions during the epidemic. They are mobile immunization teams; health workers working in health facilities, where they provide hospital care to patients with SOVID-19; laboratory workers carrying out laboratory research on SOVID; emergency medical personnel, including drivers; citizens who are in specialized facilities and employees of these facilities, are boarding houses, elderly homes, and so on; military officers of the Armed Forces and the National Guard, who are participating in the United Nations Operation. The total number of people we plan to reach during the first vaccination phase is 367,000. The second, third, and fourth stages. We inoculate people who are at risk either by their occupational status or by their health status or by their age. These are all citizens over 60 years of age. These are people with related diseases. They are citizens who perform functions to support the security and vitality of the state. They're our educators. The second phase will include the coverage of about 2.5 million people, the third stage of 7.2 million people, the fourth stage of 11 million people accessing a free vaccine. Finally, in the fifth stage, vaccination is envisaged for other population categories — 18 to 59 years of age — who have no associated diseases. They will also have access to a free vaccine. The fifth - stage coverage is 13 million citizens. The first stage of vaccination will begin in February. By the end of the year, we want to ensure that we have access to vaccines for all without excluding the categories of citizens. As part of preparation for national vaccination, we carefully prepare both the logistics system and the service providers. For logistics, we have calculations for the update of the cold chain. We've created a need for refrigerators, thermoboxes, and temperature control tools. For us, vaccine safety, storage conditions, and distribution are important. For the ultra-cool chain, we involve private companies that have experience running pharmaceuticals at low temperatures, because these are temporary needs that will not be used extensively outside the COVID-19 campaign. So this one-time partnership between the state and business is more profitable here. So we already need a long-term public private partnership. To upgrade the chain, plus two plus eight, the authorities will invest in the facilities involved in routine immunization, because we have a total need to upgrade the equipment. That's why we're going to be improving the storage conditions throughout the country from FAP in the village to the Ukrvakcin national warehouse. The Ministry of Health planned to create a separate vaccination information portal. There everyone can learn about the road map, its stages, the organization of the process, the training of the staff, and the vaccines themselves. There will also be boards with vaccination statistics that we are working on in conjunction with our colleagues from the PNB. The first version of the base information portal will be launched next week, full version together with mobile – by the end of February. To date, the mechanism for creating lists and vaccination records provides for two approaches. The first is the creation of lists through employers, that is, with links to workplaces for categories such as health workers, social workers, our military personnel and so on. The second is open vaccination records for social categories that aren't attached to the workplace, they're older people, for example. Open vaccination records will be made not more than a month before vaccination starts for that category of people who belong to one category or another. You can log in through the vaccination information portal, the web portal of electronic medical systems, the family doctor or the contact center. We've come from people having maximum choice and maximum convenience, different approaches for different citizens. These records are necessary to plan the work schedules of vaccination sites, and they must take into account the very unique scales of vaccination in the history of our state. Detailed patient algorithms will be published on the relevant portal. Dear people's deputies, my single appeal to you as politicians: the vaccine is separate, the politics is separate. Today, the public sphere is very popular with both vaccination and COVID in general. And COVID and the issue of treatment for this disease, the issue of vaccination is basically medicine, where you have to provide qualified professional medical care to save our people. I'm sure we can get through and we can finally win COVID. Let's just do it professionally and together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u5	Thank you, Maxime Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I remind you that we still have 21 minutes to answer and ask the minister of health. So, honourable national MPs, we are now moving on to questions from a specific subject from MP factions and groups. Therefore, I would like to ask the national deputies to sign up for the question. Please log out from factions and groups. The word is given to National Deputy Rahmanin Sergey Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u7	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u8	Mr. Secretary, we're currently discussing vaccination, and that's the right thing to do. But you started your speech with the doctors. And unfortunately, we still have almost a year of pandemics, we have cases where doctors can't get insurance payments. I would very much like to see the result of today’s conversation as we work together to help solve this problem in at least one hospital. I'm talking about the City Hospital of Santa Claus, where doctors who are sick with the Coronavirus can't get insurance. The director of the first surgical ward died of a coronary disease and for a long time his family was tried to get that money. Let's help our doctors survive this pandemic together, how they help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u9	I thank you very much, indeed, for such concern for our medical staff. You know that the Cabinet of Ministers, at almost the first government meeting this year, has adopted an appropriate decision that has greatly facilitated the process of receiving all these payments, the process of collecting documents has reduced the essential terms. We are also very interested in getting all our medical personnel on time to receive the corresponding payments that have been made to them by our State. It is understandable that there are sometimes cases in which we carefully consider each particular case. So I will thank you for these documents that you have brought, and we will be able to resolve them very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u10	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergeiovich the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u11	Thank you, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich. I ask you to give the floor to the Ukrainian National Deputy to Kacny Alexander Stalinolenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u12	Please, Ducky Alexander Stalinovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u13	Mr. Secretary, the loss of this number of doctors is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry's management. The fact that almost 200,000 health workers have gone abroad is the fault of all the Cabinet of Ministers and yours. Because a salary of 5,000 or 10,000 dollars is for beggars. You have successfully raised your deputies for a moment of silence. I'm sure all the doctors and virtually all the members of the Supreme Council would like you all to get up and get out of your chairs, and let those people who know that in order for the medical sector to work, there must be a minimum wage of 20,000 dollars. I'd like to ask you what your opinion is, how many doctors, medical personnel should receive today in order for them to stay in the country and be protected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u14	As far as the fair wages of our medical staff are concerned, my position on this point is not changing, it is not changing almost the entire term of my tenure. I think the doctor's minimum salary should be 23,000 dollars, the Nurse's salary would be 17,000 dollars and the younger medical staff would be 12,000 dollars. And this position is consistent with me, and I'm fighting for this position. I've been fighting for that medicine that's been broken for 30 years. We didn't have it that way, in March, when the Cabinet of Ministers was created, the Cabinet of Ministers, in which I have the privilege of working, and we immediately got sick in medicine. I've read you the numbers, and you probably know exactly where our medical system was at the beginning of the epidemic, and what it's done. And more will be done. And I can tell you, you've raised questions about the departure of our medical staff abroad. This is a question that at least concerns me, as the minister of health, most of all. Because I think it's one of the greatest threats to our country's national security. So I think that raising wages and social standards is one of those elements that should be in state policy for our health workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u15	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Tchaikovsky Ivan Adamovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u16	Please give it to Father Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u17	Batenko Taras Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u18	Mr. Secretary, we've probably heard an important, slightly pompous lecture on vaccination. I have a specific question. Pfizer vaccine, which we may receive in February, as many as 117 thousand doses for all of Ukraine. It is the only one that is included by WHO in the register of means for possible use, and it is also approved by the European Commission. Please comment on the words of Director Pfizer in Ukraine Zorjana Zilik, who says that the governments of other countries in Europe, and not only in June-July last year, were contracting when Pfizer's second stage of clinical research in the world had to be concluded earlier. When you talk, medicine breaks down, you just have to do everything in time, especially where you are. Why were contracts not made on time? And why are we in February maybe not getting a million or two Pfizers, but just 117 thousand of these doses? And the second question is political medicine, government funding. Ask for help in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u19	I don't think I'm going to comment on anyone's comments. I think you can find another person to comment on. As for the supply of vaccines, once again, I would like to emphasize that we are starting vaccination in February of this year. Pfizer's vaccine is not the only vaccine that we're going to vaccinate our citizens. All the vaccines will be safe, all the vaccines will be the ones that have been properly registered, and we have full registration according to world standards. We're going to give at least 3-4 vaccines to our citizens, and I'm going to stress again, starting in February of this year. And free access to vaccines will be made for all without exception, and by the end of 2021 we want to complete the entire vaccine company. As for the opening dates that we're going to have to start in February, I want to confirm again, and I've been stressing in September of last year. Well, then you had other questions, then you had to catch another one. And I totally understand that once we start vaccination, there's going to be some other stuff out there that leads to the corresponding elements. Well, life, as they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u20	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy to Wolin Mikhail Yakovitch, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u21	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u22	Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u23	Mr. Secretary, I'm going to have to ask you a question about the tragedy in the district hospital of infection. You saw with your own eyes everything that happened there. One of the key versions is that it was right there in the pressure zone. I would like to be informed now and, in the presence of the Prime Minister, the immediate task of examining the situation throughout Ukraine with the inclusion of oxygen and the safety of oxygen connections not only in Zaporozhye but also in real terms throughout Ukraine. Because unfortunately, the funds that were allocated to COVID were used anywhere, not for the needs that they were. And the second. This in 2007 was an order, this is a request from the Association of Psychiatrists of Ukraine, which was canceled by an order from the Ministry, which destroys the entire system of psychiatric care. Asking for information on what will happen next, what will be replaced.?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u24	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Well, first of all. In fact, I was at the President's office yesterday, including visiting Zaporozhye, and I was in this hospital. As far as testing is concerned, it is not just an assignment, but the government’s decision to check all centralized oxygen systems in our hospitals was given in the past year, if I am not betrayed by memory, in September of last year. In general, almost one and a half billion dollars were spent from the state budget alone on the oxygen system, which was listed as a subsidy in the region. As for the tragedy that took place in Zaporozhye. We expect, at least that's how I was informed yesterday by experts working on the site, that appropriate expertise will be done quickly enough to find out exactly what happened. In order to reach concrete conclusions, including in the whole country, it may be possible to come to conclusions. But I'm sure that this is an assignment -- an additional check of the oxygen supply systems -- will be given. Thank you. And using what's left to time, second question, colleagues. Regarding psychiatry, there was really a lot of work done, to put it mildly wrong. We are now building a strategy, a strategy for the development of psychiatric care that will soon be approved. And using what's left to do. There was a question with my colleague Batenka about political aid. I didn't answer. We're increasing this year's tariff for palatative aid because it's really the medical sector that needs to increase funding. This year it's going to be bigger than in the past, since April 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u25	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Marina Olegni Bardinius, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u26	Good afternoon, colleagues! Good afternoon, Minister! Today, hundreds of Ukrainian families have faced restrictions on the right to partner. I did not find any decision by the Cabinet of Ministers to limit my permission to partner labor. So I'm thinking about self-activity in the regions. We know that there are recommendations from the World Health Organization that even women who have confirmed the status of coronary disease are recommended to be born with partner support. I'm asking you to hold a selector's meeting, perhaps make a separate decision by the Cabinet of Ministers so that men and women today at the time of the pandemic will have the opportunity of partnering and supporting. This is a very common practice in Ukraine. Of the 7,000 births, 79 percent are partner births. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. In fact, there is an appropriate address, and there have been appropriate references to me, and we have already conducted, including with my participation, and my deputies have held appropriate meetings. You are absolutely right, no restrictions, I emphasize, no restrictions have been imposed in our country. The only thing that existed was that when access was made to an appropriate health facility, a test had to be done. Now that we have rapid antigen tests, that's what we're doing in 15 minutes. No, all these tests, they're bought at government expense. Nearly 6 million tests, including those distributed in our hospitals and in our hospitals, which are maternity homes, are used to carry out such things. But with your question taken into account, we will further provide an appropriate explanation from the Ministry of Health, and we will see again how to make sure that there are no such things as abortion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u28	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Honourable Sergey Anatoliyovich, the Deputy Group "Trust". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u29	Thank you. I give the word to Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u30	Please, Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u31	Dear Maxim Volodymyrovich, you may know. Step away, Mr. Raducci. Thank you. Perhaps you know that we voted on Bill 4142 yesterday. I wanted to ask you about public health: Did you participate in its development, or was it only Chief Sanitary Doctor, Mr. Lazko? And don't you see the following risks? Responsibilities and functions depend on local self - government authorities in the field of sanepidemic supervision and on economic subjects. In fact, we can bury the EU and create centres that already exist -- public health centers. Today, Webiners are conducting research on the possible risk and infection of hepatitis, syphilis among men who have sex with men. Do you think it's normal for money, even a grant? And this is considered to be an important part of the epidemiological surveillance of public health? And don't you see the adoption of this bill by 4,142 is huge.?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. We've all become witnesses to the missing sightseeing in our country. And clearly it needs to be restored, but it needs to be reinstated, including in a civilized way. And this civilized way, it predicts, first of all, that this sanepidup should be effective. There was a bill that was drafted -- the Ministry didn't take part in it -- 4,142, I mean, it was the Ministry's experts. We have made an appropriate conclusion on this bill. We believe that there should be appropriate changes, between the first and the second readings, they can be made, these changes. As for the second part of your question about the Center for Public Health. In fact, they did research on these grant costs that were given through the American CDC. And they've given us about ordering exactly the kind of research that needs to be done from a scientific point of view. I believe that in considering the second reading of this bill, 4142 was necessary to take into account all the features of our Ukraine regarding the construction of the very sanepid defence of our country. I'm sure it will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u33	Thank you. Please give the floor to National Deputy Alexia Hotcharenko, the faction of European Solidarity. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u34	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Mr. Secretary, you and the government have completely failed the vaccination. Today, Costa Rica, Indonesia, India, is being vaccinated, well known to the Greens, Oman. Israel has already vaccinated 60 percent of the population. In Ukraine, zero, zero! So I have two questions for you. First. Not when the vaccine starts and when does it end? When will more than half of the population be vaccinated in Ukraine? That's the first question. Second question. Does the tension between Ukraine and China today not affect the supply of Chinese vaccine to Ukraine? And I have a third question for Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, when do we stop buying Russian electricity, Russian and Belarusian? When do we stop giving money, not to Ukrainian miners and energy, but to Russian and Belarusian? When do we stop funding the aggressor country during the war? Please answer these questions and let us immediately resolve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u35	As for your question. Many of you have heard that something has failed, that the bed preparation has failed, that the test has failed, and now you have a new vaccine. We understand what will happen next. That's what I'm talking about. Although then the figures speak and the facts speak very differently, you know that very well. As for the beginning of the vaccination, once again, the beginning of the vaccine as it was installed and announced that we would start it in February 2021, it didn't change in any way. As for the completion of the vaccination process, I touched this in my report, and we plan to finish in late 2021. On the second question. We don't have any vaccine malfunctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u36	Thank you, Maxime Volodymyrovich. Please take a seat. With regard to questions to the Prime Minister, I would like to remind you that we have agreed that we are about to begin. I'm sorry, Maxim Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry, just one more second. The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oleni Constantine Kondratuk. Please, Olena Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u37	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Mr. Minister, you have rightly observed that vaccination cannot be a political issue, because actually vaccination is about expertise, it's about responsibility, and it's about leadership. In fact, how does vaccination take place in developed countries that have responsible leadership at the head of the country? It's fast, it's massive and it's free. Angela Merkel stated that by the end of the summer, she was already inoculating 100 percent of the population. Israel, as you have said today, and here my colleagues have pointed out, is inoculating the entire population, which is over 16 by the end of March. Pfizer already provides 90 percent body protection after the first dose, all immunologists say. Please tell me you pointed out that we should be vaccinated. There are 20 million people in the risk zone somewhere in our area. When do you inoculate these 20 million people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. We predict that it's about 20, and there's almost 21 million, those four stages. These are the citizens who are at risk, we have to inoculate, give them access by autumn. I want to remind you that in the country, vaccination is voluntary. So it is the duty of the state to give free vaccine to all citizens of Ukraine. But if we're talking about 21 million, four steps, we're going to do it by autumn. We'll have every opportunity to do that. But we have another problem -- a problem called "the number of people who are ready for vaccination." I think you've also seen those numbers of sociological research that, today, almost 43-45 percent of the people who are ready for free vaccination. I think that this is also one of the tasks that we face both in front of the government and in front of the Ministry of Health, and I think that this is a matter, including the national MPs, for such a well-promoted vaccination in the sense of that word, the maximum communication campaign. To make the number of people who were vaccinated much more than 43-45 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u39	Thank you. That's it now, Maxime Volodymyrovich. Thank you. Take your place in the government’s bed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to questions to the Prime Minister and members of the government from the National Deputies. I want to remind you that it takes 20 minutes under the Rules. Therefore, I ask the National Deputies to sign up for a question to the Prime Minister and to the members of the Government. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Anatoliyovich Velkožna, the Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u40	Thank you. I give the word to Kulinich Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u41	Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u42	Thank you. Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. I have a question for Health Minister Maxime Stepanova. Mr. Maxime, the situation with the coronavirus has shown the real state of our state’s health system in which the district hospitals are located, especially the infectious hospitals. There are no basic working conditions for doctors or basic conditions for patients. And you know that, and that's what local self-government knows. There is now a process of transferring district hospitals to united territorial communities with unclear status. So there's a specific question. What steps will your ministry take this year, what will happen to the district hospitals? People, especially doctors, do not understand what to do with a reform that no one can resist. And please reassure people, doctors, that concrete steps will be taken, that doctors will be provided with everything they need, and that the system will function normally.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. I can say that from April 1st, we have a new Program of Health Guarantees, where we have thoroughly reviewed all approaches, including those for infectious hospitals. For example, we're going to have a package like we're going to pay for the readiness of infectious hospitals to help people with infectious diseases, so that they're always ready, and that we don't have the kind of breakdown that we're facing. Many tariffs are as high as possible. The opinion of our experts on both tariffs and treaty making is very well taken into account. I would also like to point out that during the approval of this project of the Health Guarantee Programme for the new year, I was gathering a medical board, which includes the leading professionals of our country, and it was important to me that their professional opinion, taking into account their suggestions, was changed. Of course, the cost is not enough, of course, we would like much more, and we gave other figures in our budget request. But when we came out of the country's financial situation, we were calculating these figures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u44	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u45	Thank you. As much as I don't want to ask questions in my district, I'm still going to pass on the question, please pass on the word to Mikhail Raducci, more specifically.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u46	Mikhailo Borisovich Raducci, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u47	Thank you. I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Schmigal Denis Anatoliyovich. Denis Anatoliyovich, please tell me if the Ministry of Health is not the Chief Sanitary Officer of the Ministry of Health? Because one of the main authors of Law 4142 is Mr. Lazko, and this can be read on the Web site of the Supreme Council. And if the minister says that the MOH has nothing to do with this law, I would like to ask who is the subordinate Chief Sanitary Doctor, the first Deputy Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u48	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u49	As far as I know, first of all, the Deputy Minister of Health is Mr. Lazko's Chief State Sanitary Epidemiology Doctor, of course, is a full-time official of the Ministry of Health. But the subject of the legislative initiative cannot be ministers, only the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is the subject of a legislative initiative. So I'm surprised that there's a name in the drafters for a full-time employee, maybe it's some kind of description or it's not that Lazko or something. Then you have to look, and let's work with the apparatus as it happens. The initiator is always the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, if this is a legislative initiative from the CMU. If this is an MP's bill, it may have been written by Mr. Lášk, who was involved in the development. I don't know, let's find out. This is a legal question, let's find out. I'm not ready to answer right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u50	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. The word is given to Mother Mother Grigori Mikolaiovich, a faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". You for Mommy, yeah? Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, there will be a question of the next character. During this week, the President imposed sanctions on individuals and legal persons, particularly legal persons of the People’s Republic of China. President Zelenski has already fallen for the embargo and stopped exports of agricultural products. Given the 14 billion-dollar supply and 7 billion-dollar exports, who compensates for this crazy damage to the national economy and the agri-industrial complex? First. Second question about tariffs. And in this month, in January, back in the past, you did an absolute record of payments that don't match in any way the population's payworthiness. By deceiving people, you're talking about 6.99, but we still have a delivery of December 1, 79, and it has a VAT on it. Who's going to be responsible for these steps, that we're going to pay 9,138 in a February month? And the last question. 90 billion dollars in holding is an absolute record. When you stop borrowing.?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u52	So, about the sanctions imposed. The sanctions are imposed by a decision of the National Security and Defence Council, by decrees of the President of Ukraine, is a legal procedure if Ukraine's national security is threatened by external or internal danger. With regard to your data on the embargo or restrictions, that is not true. There are no embargoes and restrictions for today, no reports of this in the administration of the Ukrainian government. Regarding salaries and tariffs. As we said, today in Ukraine, the price of gas from February 1, 6 is 99 dollars. And in many suppliers it is lower. The NAC Naftogaz state-owned company set a price for February at 6.86. Regarding heat and hot water payments, according to current legislation, these tariffs cannot be raised. Today, we are continuing negotiations with the Association of Ukrainian Cities on issues, namely, the formation of these tariffs inside so as not to impose burdens on utilities. But people protected by law, tariffs for hot and hot water to rise in Ukraine will not be up until the end of this hot season. Regarding the operation of subsidies in Ukraine. Surprisingly, subsidies are available today, and all people in need of support and state aid can online, without recourse to social services, seek such assistance and receive subsidies if necessary. In addition, the government, together with the deputies, with the heads of OTG, is constantly working to bring to order any other payments that people and households can pay today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u53	Thank you. The word is given to the people's deputy Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich the faction of the political party "Golos". Please, Oleg Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u54	Please pass it on to Ustiny Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u55	Alexander Ustinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u56	Good afternoon. I have a question for the Prime Minister. You know, the Criminal Code prescribes responsibility for negligence or service negligence -- that involves landing a person, I'm not saying that you can get her out of work anymore. Today you've all reported (I don't know how embarrassing) that 117 thousand tests will be put into Ukraine is for 50,000 people to provide them with vaccines. Mr. Dennis, I only have one question for you. How many more people have to die in order to free Stephen? Because we're already on the threshold of the second wave of the epidemic, no tests, no vaccines. So my question is, when you fire Maxime Stepanova, how many more people have to die for that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u57	With regard to the state's security tests, for today's PLR tests are actually in all areas of Ukraine, and the labs are ready to accept more people who are now addressing them. Today, between 30,000 and 40,000 people are asking for tests for symptoms or guidance from family doctors. It's also a voluntary procedure, and we don't force anyone to test, so as many people as they want to talk, they're talking. We're taking a cut in the labs for today, whether there's a turn for testing, if there's any overstatement. No, today the labs are operating on a state-of-the-art basis, except for PLR, IFA tests, in Ukraine today more than 2 million such rapid antigen tests, which allow us to determine with a pretty high probability whether or not the patient is sick. The test data are distributed in all primary medical establishments, and the relevant protocols are introduced into the mandatory procedure when a family doctor is called on the primary line. Therefore, testing in Ukraine today is fully provided for all those who want it and for those who need it. With regard to medical care and preparation, today the Minister of Health has detailed and detailed this report, and I will not repeat it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u58	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u59	Good afternoon. I have a question for the government, first of all Mr. Reznikov, about the ATR channel and funding. Please tell me, is there any public communication going on? How is it planned to address these issues of speech, the ability to speak ATR, and what are the prospects for financial support for the single Crimean Tatar channel, which today is more than just Crimea? And the second question to the minister of infrastructure. In August of the 20th, there was the beginning of an extermination of the Marine Training and Diplomacy Inspectorate. Please tell me, in fact, these diplomas, which have been issued since December by the Maritime Administration, are not entirely legitimate. But I have a question about another, you know very well that in Odessa and Kiev there are a lot of questions from sailors, and they rebel and protest. How do you actually see the very scheme of uninterrupted, gibberish, and timely and quality giving (getting) a seamen's diploma for those who go to work and get this profession? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u60	Good afternoon. Rostislav Zamlinsky, First Deputy Minister for European Integration. Dear Mrs. Solomia, thank you for your question. It is very important for us that Ukrainian citizens living in temporarily occupied areas of Crimea, Donetsk and Lugansk have a quality Ukrainian information product. With regard to the ATR channel company, it's a private company called Atlant SV. To date, the Ukrainian State Budget Act of 2021 does not provide for direct financing of a private structure. We are deeply convinced that the ATR channel should be supported by the State, while the distribution of these funds would take place within the framework of current legislation. In addition, there are a number of other channels that have also called on us to provide language in the temporarily occupied territory. We think that they should all be in equal conditions, so that each of them gets the right funding. At the same time, I'm going to ask for your support, because this is the projected funding for the current year, it's very small in terms of what we planned and proposed. Therefore, taking this opportunity, I would like to ask the parliamentarians to provide for additional appropriate funding in the current year's budget review. We are confident that we are also supported by representatives of Parliament, the Crimean Tatar people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u61	Thank you. It's a good word. What? Give it to Zivick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u62	Good afternoon, Mrs. Solomia. Dmitry Zivicki, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine. With regard to the graduation of sailors and the protests that have taken place, we know very well that these protests have been provoked not by sailors but by organizations that want to make illegal profits in the process of graduation. The Ministry is working to improve the work of the cabinet, the electronic cabinet of the seaman, and the electronicization of this process in order to ensure that there is no manipulation, abuse, or corruption in the process of graduating sailors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u63	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP Irina Namentionalny Borzoi, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u64	Good afternoon! I have a question for the Minister of Health. Maxime Volodymyrovich, I fully agree that vaccination should be voluntary and free. But can you name the date on which the vaccine comes into the region and what manufacturer? And the second question. You know, yesterday I just couldn't answer to many of the villagers because they were all in shock: officially on the site, a tender announced by the Public Health Centre of the Ministry of Health for 10 million dollars for services from the organization and for a biorevealing study among men who have sexual relations with men in 2021. Please tell me at what cost will these studies be carried out? Do we not have other problems? Is it that important today?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. First. What we're going to do on vaccination is we're going to start right after February 15. I want to emphasize once again that we are talking only about vaccination with safe vaccines. We're going to have at least 3-4 different vaccine manufacturers. This is the case in almost all countries around the world when it comes to vaccination by several manufacturers. And this is a very important question so that we don't create the conditions when our citizens in our 43 percent who want to get vaccinated to start thinking that this vaccine is the vaccine, and that's not it. I emphasize, all of them are purely safe vaccines. On the second question, there's no government budget funds there, it's grants that, including these things, were allocated there. But I'm going to give Victor Lazko a job, and he has this facility directly in place to tell and report directly what and how about this tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Inna Romanovna Sowsun, the faction of the political party "The Voice". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u67	Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u68	Please, Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u69	Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question for you. How did it happen that actually the second person in the nuclear power of Ukraine, vice president of Energoatum, Jacob Hartmouth is a citizen of another state who was even on the board of surveillance of Mosenergo, and together with the government of the Russian Federation is a shareholder and gets dividends from a company, a federal network of companies of the single energy system that built and exploits the power town of the Taman Peninsula of the Russian Federation? I have a question for you. First. When will this person be released? And the second. When will the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine be convened and sanctions imposed on this person?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u70	Regarding the leadership of the State Enterprise Energoat. All appointments are carried out in accordance with current legislation, all executives undergo appropriate special checks and are assigned solely on the basis of the reasons laid down in Ukraine’s legislation. With regard to the convening of the Security and Defence Council, such a prerogative belongs to the President of Ukraine. If necessary, he will call the body in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u71	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u72	Please give me the word of Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u73	Julia Klimenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u74	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Stepanov. I know that the Cabinet of Ministers is actively circulating a document that is actually going to bring about changes to existing documents, which is actually going to divide Ukraine into two zones -- lokdown and no elbowdown. This will result in half of the areas that have been changed, and half of the areas being forced to shut down completely into the lockdown, judging by the document that is circulating there. I just want to tell you that small and medium-sized businesses can't survive yet. Please take a close look at this document and do not take this step, leave it as it is, and allow people to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fairy-tale information that you're distributing right now, and it's absolutely not true. The minister from the rostrum was very clear: the Cabinet of Ministers is working on a return to an adaptive quarantine model, when red, orange, yellow, green and appropriate areas can function in smaller or larger constraints, depending on what the epidemiological situation is going to be. And I would also like to ask the Minister of Health to complete this information from the rostrum today, but please, Maxim Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u76	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. As far as quarantine is concerned, I explained clearly enough during my report how and under what circumstances a severe quarantine may be imposed. In only one case, if there is a threat of collapse of the medical system, appropriate indicators will be introduced for this purpose. For example, the rate is 65 percent of filled beds with oxygen. I think everyone understands that if this is growing rapidly, this is a threat to the collapse of the medical system. Or the increase in the number, the growth rate of COVID-19 patients in hospitals that have been hospitalized for the last seven days and the rest of the numbers. So I ask you again, let's not panic. For 10 months, we've got one more job to do is to spread the panic. There's no such thing as. And by the way, as of today, no region, I emphasize, no one is going to be in such a level of danger that you have to enter a red level, no area, no area.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u77	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the hour of questions to the government is over. Let us thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we're moving on to our work. And I have an offer, because sometimes we do. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to stay in the hall and continue your work! The only thing left is the government, not the national MPs. You still have a lot to do. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have an offer: to keep the potential of the Supreme Council's work, there is an offer to cancel the break from 12 to 12:30. You don't want to? Then we could work without a break until 12:30, from 12:30 to the questions related to reading our MP's questions, and then we could go to the Different. Any notes? [[B in m in s a l in]] I just don't understand, there was a "no" first, then "yes." Yeah, right? Should this matter be put to the vote? No, it's not. Then once again, we work this way: we run the work of the Supreme Council by 12:30, from 12:30 to 13, we're going to have an introduction to the MP's questions, and then we're going to the Miscellaneous. And then we're going to end up with a saved break at 1:30. Is that normal? Thank you. Then the honourable national MPs, I have an offer to take their seats, because we are moving on to the agenda. The list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making is given to you today. So let's move on to his consideration. The first question is: Bill 4489-1 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act to ensure the procedure for the selection of the head of the higher education institution. This is a second reading, so I invite the head of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation, Sergio Vitaliovich Babak, to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, there's not much change, so please don't break up. This is a very important bill because we already have a second election today at the University of Shevchenka, the third announced election at the University of Kiev-Mogilian Academy. We need to solve this. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, are there those who will insist on repairs? It's a one-time fix, isn't it? There is. Then let's go to the repairs. Please, Amendment 8, People's Deputy Minko. Don't insist. Correction number nine, National Deputy Constancewich. Don't insist. Amendment number 11, National Deputy Slavicka. Don't insist. Amendment 12, National Deputy Vjatrović. Please give the floor to the national deputy, Vátrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u78	Immediately 12 and 19 repairs. So, colleagues, the real situation. For example, 60 percent of the candidates receive 80 percent of the vote. Then why the second round and the artificially new election? But even with such a huge advantage, the candidate is not considered elected, because this 80 percent is only 48 of all who have the right to vote. Accordingly, my amendment foresees that if the majority of eligible voters took part in the elections, the candidate, who won more than 50 percent of the votes, is considered elected. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u79	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u80	The 12th amendment reads as follows: "Before the new paragraphs, which complement part three of article 42, insert an additional paragraph (dot)". This must have been an electronic error, but it just doesn't make sense, so 12 of these were rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u81	Thank you. Will you put her to the vote? Because there's really nothing to put, the text was lost on the transmission. 13 Amendment, People's Deputy Yasko. Don't insist. 14th National MP Puziyczuk. Don't insist. 15th National Deputy Costuck. Don't insist. 16th Deputy of the People of Cimbaluk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u82	National MP Zimbaluk. Please, National Deputy Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u83	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable chairman, the honourable reporter, is actually very much in need of a bill. And by accepting it, we are solving a very large range of problems with the second round of Rectorial Elections. I thank the committee and, above all, John Grigorovitch Kirilenko, a colleague of the faction, for the principled position. And we think this is going to be one of the bills to support higher education. The autonomy of higher education institutions is very good and needs to be maintained. Because today's rector is responsible for everything, from the learning process to the business. And I'm going to the Ministry of Education and Science: we have to speak with autonomy about sufficient funding for higher education, so that our children will finish their education here in Ukraine, and they will work in Ukraine. The Fatherland faction will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u84	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u85	You don't need to put an order.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u86	Oh, you don't have to put it on. That's it, thank you. I'm sorry. 17 Amendment, Kovalov People's Deputy. Don't insist. 18th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 19th, Viatrowich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u87	It's essentially the same thing that I read to number 12. So again. Real situation: 60 percent of the candidates win 80 percent of the vote. Then why the second round and artificial new elections? Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u88	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u89	Thank you for asking. In fact, we think that the standard laid down in the current Higher Education Act is ideal. But it's perfect for the perfect world, when, in fact, 50 percent plus 1 vote from all who have the right to vote, elect a rector -- it's called absolute legitimacy. And to this point, until last year, it worked. But unfortunately, now that we've reached the flags of higher education, the biggest universities, there's a need to organize a second round. Because on the second round, it's a little bit lower than on the first round. And then there's the situation you were talking about. We've made a decision with the committee, and we've arranged for this rule of law, so the last time we do that, it's going to be working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u90	Thank you. Is there a need to make this correction? Yes. Dear colleagues, amendment 19 of the People’s Deputies of Vítarović is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. And you've heard the reasons. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:26]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Kovalov. Don't insist. 21st, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 22nd, Kovalov. Don't insist. 23rd, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 24th, Surkis. Don't insist. 25th, Viatrowich. Will you insist? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u91	So, colleagues, the amendment foresees that a second-round candidate is considered to have received more votes than another candidate. Even to elect a mayor or a president of Ukraine in the second round, 50 percent is not required, because one candidate can get 49, the other one is 47, some of the ballot papers will be "against" or simply invalid. It is logical, therefore, that, as in the election of the mayor or the election of the President, one who has just more votes in the second round should be recognized, rather than overshadowing the new election, because he has not reached a 50 percent figure. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u92	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u93	You know, if you accept this amendment, maybe. I understand your reasoning and, yes, this is a theoretically possible situation. But I'm explaining to you why we didn't support her with the committee. Similarly, if, for example, 40 percent of people spoil ballots, in principle, the Rector will be able to choose 10 percent of the votes, a little bit out of the ordinary in terms of respect for the labour force and in terms of its future legitimacy in the eyes of its own workforce. That's why we left the paper to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u94	Is there a need to make this correction? Is there a need for an honorable national MP, Vjatrović? Let's put it on, right? I bet on the vote of Amendment 25 of the People’s Deputy, Váterović. The committee suggests that this amendment be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:23]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 26. National deputy Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u95	Mr. Chairman, your honor, I'm not going to bet on confirming my two revisions, just give me a minute or two. So what I'm saying is that I really hope that today we will support this bill, that we will standardize the second tour of higher education institutions. It's important for us in the flags of higher education like Kyiv-Magilianka, like the Kyiv National University, that we finally get full leaders and that standard. I want to thank the committee's head for the constructive. I want to thank the committee members who agreed to the logic that where elections have already been launched, the second tour will be conducted in accordance with this law. So in March they will be able to obtain their leaders at last. And I hope to continue working on other important educational bills with our Education Committee and thank them for their constructive work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u96	Then Kovalova's repairs. You're not gonna bet, are you, I understand? Okay. Surkis. It won't. Vetatrovich, 38th Amendment. You will? Please, the word of Vetarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u97	The bill provides, in fact, for the election to be annulled if the winner fails a special test. And the Higher Education Act has no mention of any special inspection, because universities are not the authorities and the rectors are not the civil servants. The absolutely artificial inclusion in this article of a reference to an unspecified procedure and incomprehensible goals is, in my opinion, contrary to the principle of legal certainty and unwarranted interference with academic higher self-government. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u98	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u99	And here the committee clearly disagrees with you because the special examinations are going through and now all the rectors of higher education institutions. The question is, what's in the Anti-Corruption Act? But there's one point in the law that we wanted to regulate, actually, this rule. When the Ministry of Education and Science now has only 30 days to sign a contract with the rector, but. So they have to do this, and the special inspection goes a little bit longer. And so there's uncertainty that if a special examination does not go through for the reasons described in another anti-corruption law, what do you want to do with it? This question is not settled. So that's actually what we're doing here. If no check is made, then the contract is cancelled and a new election procedure is initiated.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u100	Thank you. You're going to put it to a vote, right? I don't see a deputy. You won't, will you? National MP Vjatrović, will you make this amendment, or will you be satisfied with the argument? You won't. Thank you. Please 39 amendments, National Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I support you. My colleagues were just speaking and thanked the committee for their professional work. That's really what we're dealing with right now in the higher education system. But I'm going back to an amendment that applies to special checks. Dear colleagues, we rub the elite, we rub the rector's hull. People who are responsible for tens of thousands of people, for the educational process, for the food, for the heat, and we are special tests. Yesterday we voted in favour of a law where we don't have whistleblowers, we have whistleblowers. You think the rectors are going to be among the first whistleblowers or not, taking care of a lot of fate. Of course, I can't put it in place to support this amendment, because the committee head said it was the norm of another law, but we need to regulate it, we're losing the elite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u102	Ivan Grigorovich, I understand we're not putting this one on.? No, we don't. Thank you. Kovalov. 42nd, Konstankovic. Will you bet? No, you won't. Thank you. 50th, Pavlück, National Deputy. Don't insist. 51st, Puzichuk. Surkis doesn't insist. Puzichuk doesn't insist. Frolow. Frolov, are you insisting on your actions? Don't insist. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] What is the correction? 40? Now, just a second. It's partially accounted for. Julia Mikolayevna. Sin, please. I asked you if you would. You will. Okay. Sin. After that, Kostuk. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my revision applies equally to special inspection. And I want to point out that this bill provides that the special inspection should be carried out by the heads of educational institutions and the state and municipal forms of property. In my direction, it is suggested that I exclude the heads of higher education establishments from the municipal form of property. That's why. Because according to the NAZC census, only state - owned enterprises, institutions, and organizations, the state form of property assigned by government authorities, are responsible for the inspection. So I have a lot of doubts that NAZC is going to test the rectors of communal property and we might have problems in practice if the norm is adopted in this way. So I'm asking you to support my permission to exclude municipal property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u104	Thank you. Your editing is partially accounted for. I'm just warning you, if there's a vote, then it'll be fully counted. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u105	The committee's position is very simple. We don't see the difference between the taxpayers' costs, which are redistributed through the state budget and the taxpayers' costs, which are redistributed through local budgets, in fact, which is why higher education institutions are kept. So we consider this rule of law, which is adopted by the committee, to be correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u106	You insist on betting, don't you? Dear colleagues, I'm putting amendment 40 in the line proposed by National MP Grishina. But I emphasize that it is partly included in this law. The committee proposes to leave what has been taken into account in part. Please identify and vote. [[11:34:26]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Also, please, the People's Deputy Kostuk. Please. Just remember what you're doing, because we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u107	I've got two sheets: 55th and 15th. Now, if we can, let's hear the committee head's opinion and figure out how to put the vote. First, I thank you very much, in general, for the quality work committee and very operational work. In fact, for what I understand, one, two days from the committee meeting, we already have a bill in the second reading. A very important bill, a very timely bill. I have the right to apply the exact terms so that the law will act as quickly as possible and the election of the second round of universities where they are now blocked has taken place. So in line 15 I suggested that the second round of elections take place if there were 50 percent of the vote for the March 1st candidate. Because, for example, March 17 is already the election at the Kyiv National University of Shevchenka. Please tell me, is there any logic to this? If we're adopting the law as a whole right now, the way it is, it's already.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u108	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u109	I didn't hear the whole question, but I understand what you're talking about. The current text says, in the text proposed by the committee, this law takes effect from the day following the day of its publication. But we have counted one of the rights that will be distributed from this point forward to all the legal relations that relate to the election of higher education directors who are not finished signing the contract. It will be distributed to all the elections that are now announced but are not completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u110	You're satisfied with this position, we're not going to bet that we don't destroy the structure. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. And before you vote, I, too, with your permission, have a few words as a university professor, please ask everyone to uphold this very important law. Because, unfortunately, the situation that has been made today does not allow for the powerful development of Ukrainian universities. So I ask the National MPs personally to support this important bill and to allow all the flagmen and universities of Ukraine to work in accordance with this law. Dear colleagues, with your permission, I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the provision of a procedure for the selection of the head of the higher education institution (registration number 4489-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:37:37]] For 322 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor, thank you to the committee for your excellent work. Thank you. Let's move on. The next bill is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the calculation of employee's work in electronic form, which is a second reading (project registration number 3623). The chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights Committee is invited to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, are there those who will insist? Is that right? They won't? They will, won't they? What are the amendments, can you say? Let's go get it. 1 correction, Dirdin. Don't insist. 3 Amendment, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. Don't insist. 7th, Kulinich. Don't insist. 18th, Kulinich. Don't insist. 21st, Kulinich. Don't insist. 23rd, Kulinich. Don't insist. 24th, 25th, Kulinich. 26th, Dirdini. Don't insist. The 30th, the Sheepling. Don't insist. 31st, Kulinich. Don't insist. 32nd, Shepherd's. Don't insist. 33rd, Kulinich. Don't insist. 35th, Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 42nd, Kulinich. 43rd, Kulinich. Don't insist. 44th, 46th, Kulinich. 48th, Klitschko. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 49th, Kulinich. 50th, 51st, 52nd, 53rd, Culinic. 54th, Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Don't insist. 55th, Kulinich. 56th, Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Don't insist. 57th, 58th, 59th, 60th. Excuse me, here. 73rd, Kulinich. 75th, Kulinich. Don't insist. 87th. Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I hope we all understand that now the employee's employment accounts will be carried out in the personal e-account of the insured person in the State Register of National Compulsory Social Insurance. This is why software and its reliability will determine the level of retirement of every employee in Ukraine. The recently adopted Ukrainian Law on the Verification and Monitoring of State Payments stipulates that the rules of this law on information exchange through the electronic interaction of state electronic information resources take effect after the introduction of such a system into industrial exploitation. That's exactly what I suggested in my amendment, because otherwise it's going to be information systems that have no reliability, no protection, and will not provide people with the only possible document to prove their work experience. Please, I beg you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u112	I see. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u113	Committee position. The state register consists of a register of insured persons and a register of insured persons who are kept in accordance with the Pension Fund and the State Tax Service. Software for electronic accounting in the register of insured persons has already been created to implement Cabinet Order 1084 (November 27, 2019) "To introduce the calculation of the employee's work, the natural person who is an entrepreneur, the natural person who provides himself with the work on his own in electronic form." Therefore, the committee did not support this amendment and rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you've heard the question, the argument. I'm putting to the vote the 87th amendment of the National MP of South Nina Petrovna. The committee proposes to reject this amendment. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:30.]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the 88th is the ultimate amendment of the Batenka People's Deputies. You won't insist, Taras Ivanovich, will you? Okay. Dear colleagues, we've been through all the amendments, so I'm asking the National MPs to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the bill (register 3623). This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the calculation of employee's work in electronic form. It is proposed to vote in favour of adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[11:43:32]] For 265 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. Next bill. Let's go to the drafts on the first reading. The next bill, 4318, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Cultural Act on general principles for the provision of cultural services to the population. There is a proposal to vote on the issue in short notice. I'm voting on this issue with a reduced procedure, and we need to get 150 votes. Please support and vote. [[11:44:23]] For 233 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to Ukrainian national deputy Krawczuk Eugenia Mikhaylovna. Please, Eugenia Mikhailvna, you are the author of the initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, your first reading is proposing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cultural Act on the general principles for the provision of cultural services to the population. Decentralization has no doubt changed the whole of Ukraine and these changes have also affected the cultural sphere. One problem that needs to be solved in communities is that the existing cultural infrastructure is outdated. It is usually such a closed world that lives for itself: in libraries dusted shelves with old bookshelves, in cultural buildings squandered halls that are unlikely to be found by modern youths. Humans have always created culture, and above all it must be for humans. Important changes today are not about shutting down all existing cultural institutions. We want to inhale into them a new life and make cultural services accessible to everyone in every corner of our country. And now there are examples that we can be equal to. And it's this bill that we're going to be able to start reforming the cultural services centers. It identifies the main relevant priorities of the State’s cultural policy and forms effective mechanisms for monitoring and implementation. There's a clear definition of "state policy in culture," "cultural service," "minimum standards for cultural services." We also define the authority of bodies aimed at reforming the provision of cultural services to the population. We need to change the philosophy of cultural institutions in places. Enough to be the same hidden world in yourself. You need to change and provide the bullet service that people will come for. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u116	Thank you, Eugenia Mikhail. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to the floor of the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Irina Miroslavovna. Please, Irina Miraculous.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u117	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Humanities and Information Policy at its meeting on 2 December 20th (Protocol No. 48) reviewed the draft Act amending the Law on Culture on General Principles for the Provision of Cultural Services to Population. The bill is aimed at creating a legal basis for an effective system to guarantee respect for cultural rights and the needs of the population, irrespective of their place of residence and social status, for obtaining quality and affordable cultural services in the context of decentralization reform. The basic provisions of the bill are to expand and update the terminology of the law, and they also introduce into the legal field of understanding: public policy in the field of culture, cultural services, minimum standards for providing cultural services to the population, and a centre for cultural services. They review and clarify the basic principles and priorities of national cultural policy; they introduce mechanisms for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of public cultural policy; they determine the powers of public authorities to introduce cultural service security reform; and they change the regulation of financial and economic activities of cultural institutions, etc. The committee members agreed with the drafters that its adoption would ensure that the necessary measures were taken to provide quality and affordable cultural services to the population. However, in the process of discussion, committee members also made a number of comments on the bill’s provisions, including the need to provide for clearer mechanisms to prevent the risks of reducing cultural institutions in conditions of decentralization at the local level. The results of the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u118	Everything? No, no, you know our rules. Thank you. The committee supports, yes, I see, the committee's decision. Yeah, well, I get it, and cut the deadlines, yeah. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Krachod Annie Constantineni, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u119	Please pass the word "Constankevic".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u120	Please, Irina Miroslavna Konstankevich. Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u121	I, with your permission, want to finish. The most important thing to say is that in conditions of decentralization, there is no doubt that the issue of culture is very important. And we want to stress that in making changes, we should also remember two basic principles: quality cultural services and accessible cultural services. Therefore, the bill needs to be adopted and supported unanimously today, as well as shortening the deadlines for its consideration. And the committee is prepared to do this in the shortest possible time. So, colleagues, let's all support each other together if we want to have a culture that is modern, progressive and Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u122	Please, Fedina Sofia Romanovna. Please, Princess Nikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u123	Dear friends, what is this about? Imagine the newly created Highland OTG, Gutzulščina. They had national homes in villages and in the center of the former, libraries, music schools, folk groups. There's no funding for all of this right now, five months people don't get paid. What does this bill propose? Nothing! The bill only proposes to allow the destruction of the basic network of cultural centers, that is, the closure of libraries, national homes. Maybe we should do it because we can feed them out of nothing. Or should we give a cultural subsidy that we are working on? How do you close it? What will happen in remote villages in OTG? It says that branches can be created, but this is not mandatory, can be created, may not be created. It's actually just about permission to remove objects from the base network, it's not about anything, it's not about anything, it's not about anything, it's not bad, it's not good. What should we do? We need to decide what to do with institutions of culture that have nothing to fund under decentralization. When the districts have no budgets (you know that) created, elected MPs have nothing to live for. When OTG is in some, not in wealthy cities, there is no money, no one knows what to do with libraries. What is this center of cultural services? Is this a library, or is this a new name for the people's home, which one will leave for the entire OTG? What's this bill about? Obviously, "European solidarity" will hold against it for the time being. Because it's pure populism and empty words. And it's going to work out a bill that will provide really quality access to culture, to modern libraries, to the preservation of folk art everywhere in Ukraine under decentralization conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u124	Thank you. The only request, Mikola Leonidovich, is, if you don't mind, write "against". Because you signed up for it, and you're going against it, you know? There's a "pro" or "against." Just so we're clear. Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bilozur Larissa Mikolayevna, MP "Trust", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u125	Colleagues, Larissa Bilozer, Trust MP, Winnitzkin, 15th constituency. Indeed, this bill is a framework. It is such a guide for communities, a model of the cultural center in places. It's a model showing this center. In fact, we need to reform culture: create cultural clusters, industries on the ground, and set minimum standards for providing cultural services to the population. And I want to tell you, communities are doing it. Yeah, it's a very difficult time, actually a period of chaos. When the premises are passed on, the property. Very often, communities trick and do not take cultural institutions because they are in a very lamentable state. Yes, this bill will not financially secure them. But anyway, they're now taking on community balance, and I'm sorry, it's not necessary when it hasn't been done for years at all, and when there's really no cultural service. But I want to tell you that we, I have a great project on Winnitzkin in the district and a great example of how to do it. and to develop the cultural industry. We have a world-wide children's OPERAFEST TULCHYN, an opera festival under the open sky where we gather thousands of children. Going through OPERAFEST TULCHYN for adults, where at the same time there are 15-20 thousand people in the Potocsky Palace. And then we did the roads, and we did the lighting, and the economic development went away, and the restaurants started opening up in a town where there were 15,000 people. That's why such a bill is needed. It's supposed to be a guide and a model that the community is supposed to do in an ideal way. But remember, it's hard for communities right now. I'm going to the MPs, I'm going to set up a socioconomy, and I want you to support, and I want you to kick the money out of the DFRD to develop and support cultural centers in the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u126	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Western Jury of Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u127	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Suffrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u128	Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u129	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Honorable colleagues, what culture, development, and sport are we talking about? I'm just getting information that requires the Ministry of Sport to reduce the coaching composition of Ukraine's collectives to a quarter. Congregations already qualified for the Tokyo Olympic Games This bill actually provokes the closure of what's left of the Soviet times, of some libraries there, of the cultural houses that are at the disposal of our local communities. Wake up! What difference does it make if you steal, on the roads or on a cultured home, but at least there is something left! Journalists are already freaking out about what you're doing. What, did you learn to steal only on the roads? They've taken the medics, they've put them on the road. You're taking people from the hedge fund, you're taking them on the road. So give a little bit to the culture. And you know, I can't be offended by the situation, it has to do with culture, just like you did with journalists and freedom of speech. There is already an appropriate assessment of the United Nations Office in Geneva of Human Rights, which said that the right decisions are dangerous to freedom of speech. A more decisive position for the OSCE. What are you doing? What democracy? So I think that now all of Ukraine needs to unite to protect the main -- the rights of our citizens to get information, and journalists to work and speak. If there's anything you want to do to suggest, let's introduce sanctions to all the previous authorities, because I'm assuming, as Radbre does today, that they've given up Crimea. Punish them, not journalists! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u130	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich, with your permission, I will also address you with the same request as I did to the previous reporter, if so. You just did the right thing against it, but it's still legal. Okay? Thank you. Dear colleagues, we still have two willing ones. Three more, right? Then let's do it in a row. I'm giving in. And then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. I give the floor to Suško Pavlu Mikolaiovich, "Serve of the People" faction. Please, one minute. After that, Krulko, then the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u131	Paul Susko, deputy head of the "Serve of the People" faction. Dear colleagues, culture is all that shapes people as a nation, culture is all that is created by humanity. So cultural acquisition should be available to everyone, and that's what the bill is about. Regardless of social status, material status and place of residence, the State must ensure that quality, close cultural services are available. That is also what Bill 4318 is for, as well as for improving the capacity of the territorial communities to provide cultural services. This is particularly relevant in the context of decentralization reform when it is necessary to preserve these facilities for the people. The reform has created new challenges for the functioning and maintenance of cultural institutions in the united territorial communities, including their status, community transfer procedures, the system of functioning and financing of cultural institutions. The bill is aimed at creating a legal basis for an effective system of cultural rights. So culturally, I would like to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u132	Thank you. People's deputy Krulko Ivanović, the "Fatherland" faction, is invited to the floor. After that, Julia Klimenko. Yeah, do I see it right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u133	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, it is certainly important to address cultural issues. But the most important thing is to preserve the cultural heritage. And you know, if we're adopting bills, they have to have clear rules on how to shut down the network of cultural actions, especially in rural areas, it's forbidden. To pass them on to bars, restaurants or something else, just to give them away for nothing, is not the approach that must preserve a cultural heritage. And let's look at the Ukrainian village. If the school shuts down after decentralization, the club shuts down, there's no Ukrainian House, what happens to the village? The village is dying. The village is locked on the key. So if we want to think today about saving the Ukrainian village, our gene pool, our cradle, where Ukraine has always survived the most difficult times, we need not just shut down cultural institutions, we need to develop them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u134	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. The National Deputy of Ukraine Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction, is invited to the floor. Please, Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u135	Klimenko, the Voice faction. We generally support this bill. Indeed, services should be regulated. And we will certainly support this bill. But I want to draw your attention to a situation that, in principle, is now complex. Most OTGs, especially newly created OTGs, are simply unable financially and organizationally to care for cultural institutions and provide quality cultural services. Maybe it's not that bill, but we have to figure it out. And so that we don't have a situation where the OTG refuses cultural institutions, and they still actually shut down, reprove and sell. So let's think about it, and maybe we can fix it somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting for the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cultural Act on the general principles of granting cultural services to the population, the registration number of Project 4318. Ready to vote for culture? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[12:02:19]] For 280 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. There was another offer. In line with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on the proposal and amendments and prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 4318). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:03:03:03]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next bill. I'm sorry. A statement has been made from two factions, in accordance with article 27, paragraph 15, of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, requesting a recess with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to the national MP of Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u137	Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Fellows, did you hear the smell in this room last night? And this is a burnout in the pro-Russian national MPs, former regions that should not have been in this room long ago. "The Podgoralo" because the PNB covered up the "baths" that were involved in propaganda -- ZIK, NewsOne, and the "112" channel. So the Watt, which has been longing for 30 years for the prison of the peoples, for the great side, for the oppression of freedom of speech, they even mentioned the French No Pasaran. They won't make it. But I want to stress today that racism will not pass, nor should racism go on the third floor of our Parliament. Because even though they've covered up the dirty "baths" of Russian propaganda, they're still up on the third floor of Parliament, and there's still journalists, so-called freedom-of-words. And I want to remind you that that's why the vast majority of Ukrainian national deputies insist that so-called journalists from the pro-Russian channels do not work in the Ukrainian Parliament, so racism will not pass. And these journalists who are fighting for freedom of speech, do you know where they went to fight for this freedom of speech? They went to fight on Russian television channels because there they were looking for the truth, in a country that didn't even know what freedom of speech was. Enemy propaganda has nothing to do with freedom of speech, because the enemy's help during war is masochism. Because the body parts from Russia-24 are the enemy's side of the game. Because making our top speakers Portnov or Azarov who fled our country after the Dignity Revolution is not freedom of speech. That's why we and the Ukrainian people's deputies are here to take the first step -- to shut down Russian propaganda, to take the second step -- they shouldn't be in the Ukrainian Parliament, racism would not go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament! Freedom of speech, including it, is also being extended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so I ask everyone to take their seats and move on to the constructive work of Parliament. Thank you. Are you ready to keep working? Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the jobs of the Ukrainian national deputies are where their names are written. Dear colleagues, I am very grateful for the understanding and constructiveness of our activities. Let's move on to Parliament's work, we have a lot of work to do. That's why we're moving on to the next question: the second reading of the bill, 3132. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee Act and some other legislative acts to improve the system of Antimonopoly committees. I remind you, it's a second reading again. I invite the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Development of Ukraine's Vice-President, Podlas Roxolaan Andriyev, to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, are there those who will insist on their amendments to Bill 3132? There are no wanters, are there? None. Dear colleagues, I am asking the question of adoption in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments of Bill No.3132 amending the Law of Ukraine on the Anti-Monopoly Committee of Ukraine and some other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the system of Anti-Monopoly Committee bodies. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? There is a proposal to support and vote. [[12:09:43]] For 245 Decision taken, thanks for the constructive work, colleagues. Show me the factions, please. Next bill. This is the first reading, the draft Act amending the National Service Act on the extension of the number of persons who may claim entry into the public service (registration No. 4361). Dear colleagues, this is my first reading, so I'm asking about the consideration of the simplified procedure of Bill 4361. Please support and vote. [[12:10:32]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to the statement of the author of the bill of the National MP of Ukraine, Francis Igor Pavlovich. Please, Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u139	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice Speaker! Good afternoon, dear fellows! You will have before you the draft Ukrainian Act amending the National Service Act to extend the range of persons who may apply for entry into the public service (registration No. 4361). The bill proposes to amend part two of article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on State Service, which extends to persons who may claim to enter the public service by allowing persons who have a legally approved high qualification to participate in the election to the public service. As we know, this article clearly defines the number of persons, but since the adoption of this legislation, it has expanded to people who have a fairly high professional level. This applies to the following categories of persons, such as lawyers, notaries, arbitrators, estate managers, and so forth. This is the so - called category of self - employed persons who are legally subject to very high professional requirements. The purpose of involving the persons in question into the possibility of applying for the public service is that they have very high professional characteristics that meet all other legal requirements for persons who are able to claim for the public service. For example, it's a great job history, there's a legal education. For lawyers, this is, for example, at least 2 years of vocational training, for notaries, up to 6 years of age, for other categories of persons, from 3 years of age. In view of what has been said, I ask you to support this bill and allow the public service to obtain in its ranks very high-quality workers who will only improve the state service in our country. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u140	Thank you, Igor Pavlovich. I invite the co-rapporteur for this bill, the head of the Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Building, National Deputy Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenka. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiyovich! Our committee considered this project at its meeting on December 16, last year, and decided to adopt it as a basis for consideration in the first reading, reducing the deadline for submitting comments and suggestions to the second reading. In so doing, in view of the need for comprehensive drafting of the bill, the Committee adopted a decision to take into account, when preparing the draft draft for the second reading in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, proposals and regulations on corrections, clarifications, the elimination of errors and/or contradictions in the text of the bill, other structural parts of the bill and/or other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading and correspond to the subject of its legal regulation. The adoption of the bill will facilitate citizens’ access to public service. You know, we're always in favour of increasing opportunities for our Ukrainians with you so that they can engage in the public service with a variety of experiences. Indeed, there is a problem. Now, experience, for example, notary services, is really not relevant to taking positions, and we have to change that. There are some comments before this bill in GNEU and in our international partners on reform of the public service, but we will remove them to second reading and the bill will be ready for second reading. Therefore, a request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u142	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. I understand that the proposal, including the preparation for second reading, is 116, right? Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Then the offer to sign up is two in a row, two in a row. The only request, if you're writing "for" is you have to speak "for" if "against" is "against" such a rule. Please sign up, colleagues. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Knyazević Ruslan Petrovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u143	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, the point is that I fully support the idea proposed by the author of the bill, because self-employed persons in the field of law are actually deprived from the point of view of access to competition, because it's not about appointment, it's about participation in competition. And after the proper adoption of the law, these categories of persons are somewhat discriminated against in relation to all others who have such a right in accordance with the current edition of the State Service Act. The other thing is that many people, I'm talking to the author, don't understand that it's about self-employed people, and so it would probably have to be written more clearly that it's about them, because there might be a case where not all of them are self-employed. But the approach for legal professionals to have as much access as possible to public service is the right approach. And I would like to remind you that it was initiated when the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal allowed legal professionals, particularly lawyers and this kind of practice, to justify themselves. Unfortunately, progress has not yet been made, although I believe that at the time it was possible for courts to initiate this practice of access to competition and category "A" and categories "B" and "C" to representatives of legal professions. But what we're doing right now is trying to generalize this norm and not isolate it in special laws is probably the most correct and optimal way that we support. So in the first reading, we will certainly support this bill. And in the second reading, if there's any more warnings, because science and expertise really has a warning, but they think that this kind of person is, let's say, more privileged to others, not realizing that it's purely self-employed. To clear this nuance, I think it's easy to sort this out in a second reading. And certainly, such a bill should be adopted in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u144	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. As always, it's concise and smart. Thank you. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian National Deputy Krachod Annie Constantineni, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u145	Our parliamentary group "For the Future" will certainly support this bill, because it is very appropriate, very nice, for which I thank the authors. As a result, we will promote access to public service for citizens who meet high qualifications and, at the same time, have been deprived of opportunities to participate in public service competitions to date. This will also contribute to the further implementation of public service reform, the protection of citizens' rights and the improvement of the overall professional level of persons participating in public service competitions. That's why the "For the Future" MPs will have to support this law in their first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u146	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u147	Dear Chairman, please pass on the word to Shufric.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u148	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. Please, Nestor Ivanovich, this is Bill 4361. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u149	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Many different people have seen the charges. Of course, the public service is important when the interests of the state are really being protected in this room, not actually causing the destruction of state institutions by the way my predecessor did. Dear colleagues, I'd like to bring to you the official position of representative of the Authorized Commissioner for Freedom of Speech of the OSCE. The OSCE representative from the question of freedom of speech of Teresa Ribeiro, calling on our Ambassador Zimbaluk, expressed concern about what had taken place in Ukraine regarding the sanctions on three channels and called for a balanced, proportionate solution to the situation and not to risk the issue of freedom of speech today. What's more, there's already an appropriate response, I've said this briefly, but for those who don't understand it, I'm saying in Ukrainian that there's an appropriate response from the Geneva Office for Human Rights that's expressed its position on the simultaneous exclusion of three TV channels as a manifestation that actually doesn't allow us to express our vision today and to express questions that we can't avoid today. In fact, this is a direct intervention in freedom of speech today. I quoted you literally and this is the official position of those you want to go to today – European and world partners. Today they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u150	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. You. I understand it was your 4361 position, right? Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there still willing to make a statement on this matter? A replica? No, there was no one named, and the faction was not mentioned. The zimbaluk is the second zimbaluk. But we respect the honorable Lord Michael. Dear colleagues, there are no more willing to speak, are there? So I invite the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to the committee to adopt, on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading, in accordance with article 116 of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on State Service, concerning the extension of the circle of persons who may claim to enter the public service (registration number 4361). Are You Ready to Vote? Then please support and vote. [[12:22:11]] For 268. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there was still an offer by the committee to cut off half the time of supply and rights and preparation for the second reading. Accordingly, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and rights and to prepare for the second reading of the bill (register No. 4361). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[12:22:54]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have eight minutes left, I'd like to consult. Do we have the opportunity to vote without discussion on the next bill in the first reading? These are Bills 3360, 3360-1. There's a chance, right? And then we'll go straight after that to the issues involved. But I have to do a shortcut. Dear colleagues, we are going to consider the following bills 3360, 3360-1. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of discrepancies and the implementation of mortgage and enforcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting this issue under a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:23:55]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is the conclusion of the committee that bill 3360-1 should be adopted as a basis. I'm asking that question. [[B in m in s a l in]] I asked before entering him, John Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ivan Ivanovich, after all, I am in favour of the fact that those agreements that are in Parliament must be implemented, otherwise this is a matter of the Rules and Procedure. I am very grateful to you, so with your permission. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, won't the other factions be against if I give one faction a two-minute statement? Will you all express yourself then? But then we won't be able to look at it, friends. [[B in m in s a l in]] What do we put to the discussion then? All right, good fellows, I give you my word. Well, then move on to next week, friends. Let's do that. I give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Motovilovic Andri Viktorovich. Please, Andrew Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u151	Guys, I'm really the author of the bill. We've considered on the committee two bills, an alternative to my colleague Fries. And I'm asking you to support Mr. Fries' bill because he's more professional in the legal plane. What problem do we raise? The mortgage has a problem with the realisation of property and executive inscriptions. The law hasn't changed in quite a few years, and we need to change it now and sell the property transparently, either because of the executive inscription or because of the notary inscription of the notary. Thank you. I'm asking you to support the bill of my colleague, Mr. Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u152	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Francis Igor Pavlovich. Please, Igor Pavlovich. Igor Pavlovich, if you have a short period of time, you can make it shorter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the bill is needed. Indeed, today we need to implement the subject of the mortgage procedure through electronic auctions. The difference between my bill and the Motovilovac bill is that the institutional principles of notarial certification in the issuance of a certificate of acquisition of immovable property from public trade or the issuance of a certificate, when the sale did not take place, I propose that I continue to leave through a procedure of notarial certification to ensure the integrity of this fact. In another absolutely identical bill. The only point that the Ministry of Justice has to make is that the Ministry of Justice, rather than the Cabinet of Ministers, should be the subject of regulation. We will make this right until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u154	Thank you, Igor Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, using the chairman’s rights, I will continue this brief consideration to deal with this issue in substance. Is that why they want to talk? You've been briefed on this bill. Yes, we do. Then I'll put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Bill 3360-1 to accept as a basis. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of discrepancies and the implementation of mortgage and enforcement assets (project registration number 3360-1). Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[12:28:09]] For 276 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the question-and-questions announcement, but I ask you to stay, because the first six questions are those questions to the President of Ukraine that we need to vote on. In addition, other questions are highly desirable. And after that, we've got "Victory." That's why I'm handing over the word with great pleasure to Olenia Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u155	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. So, your honor, we have six questions for the President of Ukraine, so we're going to have 12 votes. Please prepare for the vote. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Is everyone clear? Yes, there is an open-ended vote in support of Alexander Sukhov's request to the President of Ukraine to oblige the head of the Luhansk Regional Military and Civil Administration to comply with the requirements of current legislation. Please vote. [[12:29:23]] For 248 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to refer this pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:29:47]] For 239. Decision taken. It is an open-ended vote to support Alexi Kovalov's request to the President of Ukraine for the inaction of officials of the Bekhter territorial community of the Hersonian region regarding the failure to carry out the necessary public financial audit and other possible illegal actions by officials of the Behter Rural Council of the Hersonian Region regarding the expenditure of the budget. Please vote. [[12:30:30]] For 266 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to refer this pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:30:54]] For 273 Decision taken. Next question. Supports the request of Alexi Kovalov and Paul Pavlish to the President of Ukraine for possible violations against the environment, actions and/or the inaction of officials of the Herson City Council and law enforcement authorities in relation to the situation in the territory of the Herson garbage dump and the "Herson Sea Trade Port" DP. Please vote. [[12:31:36]] For 276 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:32:02]] For 278 Decision taken. The next MP's request. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Tetjana Placzkova's request to the President of Ukraine to intensify efforts to ratify the 2006 International Labour Organization Convention on Maritime Navigation as soon as possible. Please vote. [[12:32:40]] For 243 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:33:03]] For 255 Decision taken. The next MP's request. There is an open-ended vote in support of Larissa Bilozer and Mikaly Kucher's request to the President of Ukraine to investigate the death of a medical worker named Mikaly Kirichenko, who was responsible for the infection of COVID-19 while performing professional duties. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:33:44]] For 283 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:34:07]] For 281 Decision taken. And a final request to the President of Ukraine. I am betting on the open-ended roll-call vote in support of Roman Gritchcock’s request to the President of Ukraine for the use of state-owned property in the right of operational management in higher education institutions. Please vote. [[12:34:42]] For 278 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:35:06]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor, for all the requests to the President of Ukraine that we are voting on today. A total of 153 parliamentary inquiries were made during the plenary week. These include: 6 parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine; 6 to the Supreme Council; 73 to the Cabinet of Ministers; 56 to the heads of other public authorities; and 12 to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine. So it's the questions of the national MPs. Alexander Jurchenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the National Police of Ukraine, to prevent the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy Alexander Jurchenk. Groups of National Deputies (Puszkarenka, Grishchenko, and others, only 6 deputies) to the Žitomir District Council on the appropriateness of the post of Director of the Department of Health of the State Administration of Suslik Mikoli Petrovic. Igora Negulewski, acting as Director of the State Enterprise "The Sea Business Port of Black Sea", acting as Director of the State Enterprise "Odes Sea Trade Port", acting as Head of the Management of the Private Shareholder Society "The Ukrainian Danube Paroving", acting as Director of the State Enterprise "Maryupolski Sea Trade Port", acting as Head of the State Institution "Derhidrografia", acting as Director of the State Enterprise "Micholaiowski Sea Trade Port" for information. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the improper conduct of criminal investigations and the provision of information on their status. Groups of National Deputies (Dirdina, Zirraski and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on improving traffic rules. Constantine Kasaya to the Attorney General's Office on the state of pre-trial investigation of criminal conduct into the illegal possession of the PRAT "Poltavaturist" property complex. Constantine Kasaya to the Attorney General’s Office on the state of pre-trial investigation of criminal conduct into the illegal extraction of sand in the territory of the Green Farm Council of the Chutov region of Poltava. Dmitry Black to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the capital repair of the road to the general use of the state value of Boryspiel - Supreme Provosk - Dnipro in 2021. Dmitry Black to the head of the Dnipropetrov district council, head of the Dnipropetrov district administration for the completion of the reconstruction of the Dibrov stadium in the village of the town type Kralichanka Dnipropetrovsk district in 2021. Groups of National Deputies (Constankević, Gossa and others) to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for Veterans of Ukraine, on the increase in the expenditure of Ukraine's State Budget in 2021 for proper medical care of war veterans. Mr. Alexander Kachura to the Deputy Chief of the Office of the President of Ukraine for the inclusion of representatives of the Movement #SaveFOP (GO "BreasureFOP" and the GS "SEAVFOP" for Rights and Freedom) in the Council for the promotion of small business with the President of Ukraine. Alexander Kachura to the Head of the Ukrainian Railway Association Association for the introduction of an additional regional train (regional express) on the Konotap Kiev route. Andrea Boblach to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine on the need for urgent laboratory research into groundwater and soil in the Makukhovka village and Lower Poltavian OTG Mills in connection with the rapid spread of viral hepatitis A among the population. Alexia Zmerenecki to the director of the State Bureau of Investigation for improper enforcement of court requirements by the State Bureau of Investigation located in Kiev. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine for the restoration of the wrong right to do business. Paul Bakuntz to the temporary duty of Minister of Energy of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, regarding the provision of statistics on payments for municipal services and heating services for the maintenance of temples and religious buildings. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of additional funds from the state budget for the construction of the infrastructure of the mountainous areas of the region of Cherniewets. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Commission for State regulation in the areas of energy and utilities for the cancellation of gas charges and the transfer of gas transport systems to the property of territorial communities. Anatolia Ostapenka to the Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Service of Ukraine for the work on the procedure for imposing fines for violations of labour legislation and employment. Helen Moshenc to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on providing information on the situation with buildings for elderly people in Ukraine. Helen Moshenc to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for information on measures to increase energy efficiency in Kiev. Alexander Gerega to the head of the National Commission, which regulates the state in the area of communication and information on the provision of broadband access to the Internet and mobile communications in the village of Nova Guta Kamyanec-Podil district of Hmelnitsk. Alexander Gerega to the head of the Hmelnick district government for the provision of water to the people of the villages of Guków and Frogs of Gukovsky, the united district community of Kamyanec-Podil district of Hmelnick. Tetjana Ryabucha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of food security and consumer protection to the State Service for Ukraine of a mandate to inspect the hot water management subject. Irina Konstankevich, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Health, Medical and Health Insurance, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the development of programmes for the provision of free medical outpatient treatment to patients with acromgal and hypophysic giantism. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on how to resolve the critical situation of the debt of salary payments at the PRAT "The Hope Checkout". Michael Bondar to the Head of the High Council of Justice on the obstacle to the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy to the judges of the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev. Bogdan Thorochti to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on specific issues of the Ukrainian Security Service. Sergey Ljowczina to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative consequences of a record increase in debt from municipal services. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the continuation of the construction of a school for 300 students in the village of Brorodinsk, the United District Society of the Balgrad district of Odessa. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, on the need for the inclusion in the NSOs' contracts of public health care under the programme of medical guarantees for a package of medical expenses for medical examinations for the purpose of securing and compiling the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to expedite the consideration of Bill No. 4376 with a view to transferring authority to the local councils on the organisation of passenger transports from the State to the executive committees of the local councils. Igor Guza to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, the head of the Volin District State Administration, on the need to preserve the possibility of funding in the current year, at the expense of the DFRD project "The School for 600 Locations in the Village of the City Type Main Lummel Region of Volin Region". Alexia Silent to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine to provide information on compliance with the bill of lading requirements. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the Ukrainian Defence Minister regarding the redeployment of the military part of A2755 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, located in the city of Dubno Rivena. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase the subsistence minimum to ensure the constitutional guarantee of citizens to a sufficient standard of living. Alexia Hotcharenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures to ensure the possibility of the continuation of the First Crimean TV channel "ATR T". Ruslana Knazević to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the director of the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment of Education in External Independent Appreciation. Oleg Kolyev to the Odessa City Head on the verification of activities and compliance with the positions of the Malinov District Administration of the Odessa City Council. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repair and current status of the roads of the mountain areas of Lviv, Ivano-Frankivsky, Zakarpatsky and Cherniewsky. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on guaranteeing the State safe living conditions in boarding houses for elderly citizens and disabled persons. Nelly Yakovlieva to the Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine for information on administrative offences committed by residents of TOT at a state border crossing. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the treatment by banks of the definition of "public persons" in connection with the acquisition of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization of Income (Laundering) by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction. Alexander Kunicki to the Attorney General for personal control of the conduct of a pretrial investigation into criminal conduct. Victor Myalik to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the increase in the amount of the educational subsidy of the Dubrovnik Territorial Society in 2021. July Lighthouse to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure the continuous treatment of orthopaedic patients diagnosed with a diagnosm. Maksim Zariski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the verification of the use of the state budget reserve fund, which was aimed at eliminating the consequences of the extreme situation of the regional level (Red Flood 2020), which took place in the territory of the 202th constituency of the region of Montenegro. Vladimir Ivanov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from Ukraine’s State Budget for 2021 to equip the South Center for Radiation Therapy on the basis of Herson’s district cancer dispenser. Vladimir Ivanov to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the improvement of the quality of education and the preservation of a network of educational establishments in rural areas in the Herson region. Victor Medvedchuk and Renata Kuzmin to the Attorney General on the investigation of the facts of persecution, the threat of murder on the ground of national intolerance by Thai blogger Malaman, the instigation of such unlawful acts by the military officer of the General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Anatoly Stefan, and the use of urgent measures to ensure the safety of the blogger and her family. Anatolia Kostuha to the head of the Zacarpathian District Council on the Regional Programme for the Development of Physical Culture and Sports for 2021-2024 Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to make changes to the Order of the Scientific Degree Experiment. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to provide adequate services to residents in the area of housing and utilities. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Kabachenka) to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to enforce a court decision on child support alimony. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka and others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Association of National Shareholders of Naftogaz Ukraine for the provision of financing of jobs from the gasification of Odessa's population. Nestor Schuffrić to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the introduction of sanctions and the closure of the 112-Ukrainian channels, NewsOne, ZIK. Geo Leros to the Director-General of the National Stock Exchange Company, Ukraine, on the flight of Airbus A319 to the state aviation company Ukraine, which took place on March 18, 2020. Oksana Savchuk to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Minister of Community Development and the Ukraine to ensure that the requirements of labour legislation are met in part of the salaries paid to employees of the newly created district councils. Oksana Savchuk until he was temporarily acting Head of the State Service of Ukraine for work on the protection of the rights of employees of the Open Shareholders Association "Presmash" of the city of Ivano-Frankivska. Taras Batenka is under the temporary responsibility of the Head of the National Health Service of Ukraine to provide medical facilities with the possibility of contracting medical services. Tarasa Batenka to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration for the proper observance of 210 years since Markian Shaškević was born. Taras Batenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General for the proper investigation of the circumstances of the loss of a Ukrainian citizen. Igora Krivosheyev, until temporarily acting Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, is responsible for providing information and documents. Igora Krivosheev to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on search and rescue work. Julius Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the amount of natural gas accumulated in the shares and purchase prices of Ukratransgaz. Alexander Bakumov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, on the issue of illegal eviction of borrowers of foreign exchange loans. Alexander Bakumov to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Community and Territory Development of Ukraine, Secretary of the Kharkiv City Council for the development and approval of animal health standards and rules for the maintenance and breeding of domestic animals, and for the maintenance of stray and homeless animals. Marijana Bezugola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes to the established order of care for persons with disabilities, children with disabilities with free technical means of rehabilitation. Dmitry Lubinz to the minister of environmental protection and natural resources of Ukraine, the State Geology Service and Ukraine's tender for the sale of a special permit for geological exploration by the zirconia. Groups of National Deputies (Pushkarenka, Pashkovski and others) A total of 53 deputies) to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the need to restore the headquarters of the world - famous aircraft designer Igor Sikorski in Kiev. Alexia Hotcharenko to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister for the Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Areas in order to secure funding for the first Crimean TV channel "ATR T". Geo Leros is acting as Director of the State Air Traffic Service Company of Ukraine, Director General of the State Aviation Company Ukraine for the preparation of aircraft for the flights of Kiev-Johno-Frankivsk from December 20, 2020 to January 10, 2021, which belong to the State Aviation Company "Ukraine". Artema Cnermoorov to the National Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine on the activities of the National Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine. Groups of people’s deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need to provide funding for the work related to the construction of the railway movement on the street of the Sun in Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk Odes region. Anatolya Kostucha to the head of the Zacarpathian District Authority on the Program of Support for the Publishing of Local Authors, the Promotion of the Carpathian Book, and the Promotion of Book Distribution. Anatolya Kostucha to the head of the Zacarpathian District Administration on the Program for Enhancing the Functioning of the Zacarpathian Regional Municipal Enterprise "Uzhgrad International Airport" for 2021-2024 years. Yulia Ovicnikovov to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Head of the National Water Agency of Ukraine, for the consideration of information on the proper treatment of the land of the water fund and the green plantations in Kiev. Larissa Bilozer and Mikoli Kucher to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Service of Ukraine for the work of investigating the death of a medical worker named Mikola Kirichenko, who was responsible for the infection of COVID-19 while performing professional duties. Andrija Nikolayenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine, the Montenegrin Regional Public Administration, the Montenegrin City Council on the need to review the call of TV news journalist Olena Cintila on the comprehensive verification of private houses for elderly people who are active in the city of Chernivitsa and the Chernivets region. Dmitry Nataluha to the head of the political party's deputy faction "The Servant of the People" on providing official information on the position of the deputy faction of the political party "The Servant of the People" in the matter of the resignation or removal of the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Strategic Industry of Ukraine, Oleg Semenović. Roman Gritchcock to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the realization of the right of residents of hostels to the inviolability of housing. Groups of National Deputies (Vasilenko, Sowsun and others) A total of 23 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Zaporzyk TEZ accident, which left a number of people without electricity. Groups of National Deputies (Vasilenko, Sowsun and others) A total of 24 national deputies) to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine regarding the incident at Zaporozhye TEZ, which left a number of people without electricity. Mikoli Kucher to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine on organizational and state changes in the National Police Department of the Vinicki Region and the liquidation of some of the local police bodies. Mikoli Kucher and Larissa Biloz to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the issue of the transfer of territories and property on the balance sheet of the Winnick National Agrarian University, to individual units of the 59th individual motorcycle brigade. Marina Bardina to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on ensuring a full and impartial investigation into the arson of the auto deputy of the Poltava City Council. Marina Bardinau to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials to the head of the Kyiv District in Poltava, the Council of Oksana King's Landing. Romana Lozinski, acting as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Apparatus for the removal of the accreditation of journalists and technicians of television channels under sanctions. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration, Chief of Roads in Zakarpatsk Region, Head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine on the need to carry out a capital repair in 2021 on the area of the road of territorial importance T-04-01 (Tokmak Poga). And the last question I'll ask you today. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Road Service in Zaporozhye Region, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine for the implementation of capital repairs in 21st year of the section of the international road M-14 (Primorsk-Priazovsk-Melitopol). These are all questions for today, dear colleagues. Thank you for your attention to all responsible deputies who listened attentively. Thank you very much. And we're moving on to the question of "Crazy." Therefore, I would like to enroll all who wish to take part in this matter. Please sign up. Yes, this is Eugenius Bragar, the "Serve of the People" faction. Please, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u156	Good afternoon, dear friends! As we know, the question of "eurobly," the final question of "eurobly," was one of President Vladimir Zelensky's pre-election promises. Accordingly, I believe that our obligation is to settle this issue definitively. At present, particularly in Kharkiv, there is a very dangerous situation when a system of impounding cars on European registration is in place in the city. So far, the Kharkiv region is the only region where the Europlagher system works to get 8.5,000 fines first, then 17,000 dollars. It's very dangerous that this system is currently working only on Kharkiv, but in the future it can be spread across the country. As Ukrainian national MPs, we can only fight this one way -- we can adopt the Law on Accessible Dispersion. So far, this package of bills is 4643-d. And I think that this bill should be sent to the Plenary Hall as soon as possible and voted first in the first reading and then in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u157	Thank you. Julia Svetly, a national deputy, is invited to attend. Please, Mrs. Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The most current topic in the world today is the fight against the coronavirus, the protection of its citizens in every country. And there are also some measures in our country to protect people. However, in recent times, you and I have been seeing more and more abuse with the expense of a hedge fund. Not to be excluded are the regions of Ukraine. I want to give you an example of Kharkiv County. The tender recently spent 25 million dollars on individual protection. And, you know, even a superficial analysis shows that most of the goods were purchased at an overpriced price. For example, a medical mask, which can be bought in any pharmacy for 3 bracelets, spent 3 bracelets on 300,000 masks per mask. I think at this scale any seller could make a discount very easy. And the situation was in different positions, including protective clothing, medical gloves, disinfectors, and other items, which were overpriced twice or five times. Ladies and gentlemen, what does another state need in order for a conscience to be awakened from government officials or civil servants? As long as the conscience sleeps or is not there at all, I ask that the Cabinet of Ministers immediately intervene in this situation, bring about a system of purchases of personal protection and everything related to the health and life of citizens. Also organize all purchases at a regional level. And I look forward to a clear and balanced response by law enforcement authorities to the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u159	Thank you. Next up is Marina Bardina, "Serve of the People" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u160	Good afternoon, Ukraine! Today, in times of difficulty, when Ukraine is experiencing, in fact, a moment of opposition to pro-Russian propaganda in our country, I want to tell you some details for your general understanding -- so what's going on. The introduction of PNBO sanctions with respect to some Ukrainian national deputies, as well as the media associated with MP Medvedchuk, is Ukraine's own response to the information security that is in our country. One of the reasons, of course, is the Ukrainian Security Service’s investigation into the financing of terrorism. But for me personally, as Ukrainian citizens, it is also a matter of our own safety. We all know that this week we had a conversation with our foreign minister, Mr. Kuleba, with the Secretary of State of the United States, where we discussed our own issue of countering disinformation worldwide. Because we have actually seen how information policy can become weapons in the hands of countries or countries. The establishment of an international anti-disinformation centre was under discussion. And Mr. Kuleba said it would be right if Ukraine took the lead on this issue. Also during this discussion was the initiative of our ministry to create the Crimea Platform so that we could internationally engage different countries, defend the issue of Crimea, illegal annexation, and talk about the return of Crimea. As for the actual moments that are taking place in the Tripartite Contact Group. Our representation, our delegation, continues to defend the interests of Ukraine, to negotiate the exchange of prisoners. In the summer, the Ukrainian side handed over the lists for approval. These lists don't agree with us right now, they don't confirm. The Russian side does not comply with the Red Cross’s access to all temporarily occupied territories so that the Red Cross can determine the conditions under which people are there. And the last thing I want to say. Today, there's a lot of information in the media environment about some kind of "external governance" in Ukraine. I want to tell you in full that Ukraine has become a European integration path for development. This means the implementation of our agreements under the EU Association Agreement, as well as the reforms for NATO membership, so we are moving in the current order of the day. The United States is certainly our strategic partner.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Marina. Vladimir Aresonkov, Trust Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u162	Vladimir Aresonkov, Deputy Group "Trust", Žitomirščina. Dear colleagues, the honorable Presidium, the honourable Ukrainians! First. Please consider my statement as an address to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, because in the morning I was not able to ask the Prime Minister a question, but rather the point of my statement about the following. Pretty soon, in the April months, in Ukraine, and not only, but in many countries of the world, they will first mention a rather sad, scary and tragic date -- 35 years since the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear station. The biggest, I want to remind you, is the technological catastrophe of the 20th century, which has touched the lives of tens, hundreds of thousands, and not just our fellow countrymen, but many of the citizens of the world, a host of problems that have not been solved since then. So today, it is clear that there must be a certain response to the preparation for that date. And let's look, formally, the President of Ukraine has done whatever his job is -- the President's decree is, unfortunately, not exactly specific to any of the instructions, but nevertheless, there is an Order. What's next? The Cabinet of Ministers, as the central authority of the executive branch, is to ensure the preparation and execution of the entire package of measures. Unfortunately, there is no information available to us today that the Cabinet of Ministers is preparing or willing to take all the necessary measures. What are we talking about? Today, I emphasize, once again, that the mass of problems involved in the treatment of people who have suffered, the liquidators, the increase in their pension benefits, the recovery of the benefits that are determined by those who are active, I reiterate, the legislation, the feeding of schoolchildren, and so on and so forth. Many questions that are not yet settled can be listed. Mainly, the Cabinet of Ministers has not yet adopted a government program that will incorporate this whole set of unresolved issues. That is why we are now addressing the Prime Minister, to the government, to take urgent action. And finally, the Supreme Council. Today, about 15 drafts are being considered in the Preparatory Committee. We now have an initiative group, which my colleagues included: Cymbaluk, Ostapenko, Arsenyuk. We will meet with the Chief of the Supreme Council of Razumkov, Prime Minister Schmidt. We demand that we speed up the preparation of draft laws so that we can look at them in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u163	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr. Irina Borzov, the "Serve of the People" faction, is invited to the floor. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u164	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Irina Borzov, Winnitzkin, Servant of the People. 2020 was a difficult year. During the pandemic and the economic crisis, we have extremely serious challenges. But it was in 2020 that a foundation for the development of every community in Ukraine was laid at the state level: power, land, authority and financial resources were transferred to places. At the end of the year, 168,000 acres [16,000 ha] of agricultural land was transferred from the state to municipal property of the territorial communities. Now the community, not the officials, will decide what to do with the land. As part of the Grand Building Presidential Program in the Winnitsk region, roads and bridges are being repaired, schools and kindergartens are being reconstructed, sports facilities and hospitals. The important thing is that the projects are not long - term buildings. In 2020, 15 objects were reconstructed. And in 2021, eight objects were planned to be reconstructed. Also in 2020, 104.5 km of roads and 9 bridges have been repaired in the Winnitz region, the highest in 10 years. In Yampol, they'll start building a bridge through Dniester. He's going to be part of the new Kiev-Kishen international route. Building a bridge is a project that people have been waiting for for over 30 years. They talked for 30 years, but they didn't. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky signed a memorandum with the President of the Republic of Moldova on 12 January and launched an important project for both countries. Viennese will have a modern international airport. At the beginning of the reconstruction of Vinnica Airport in the 2021 budget, 604 million dollars were foreseen. In the Winnitsk region, 3,000 cod beds have been opened today, the state funds in hospitals have been used to conduct oxygen, buy oxygen concentrators, and have recently received portable V.S.D. devices. The area is also being prepared for vaccination. A mechanism has been developed and the first 20 mobile teams have been created, but we expect the Ministry of Health to provide a vaccine. Dear doctors, educators, entrepreneurs, we know you're having a hard time. Thank you for your patience, for your work. Let us unite at the level of the State, at the level of the region.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u165	Dmitri Lubbott, "Serial of the People" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u166	Dmitry Lubota, 177 District, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear voters, I am constantly receiving numerous appeals from you regarding the use of response measures to reduce tariffs on utility services. I want to inform you that me and the other deputies are not standing outside of this problem and that we are about to begin to correct the situation. In the beginning of January, I had prepared and addressed appropriate parliamentary appeals to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the NCREKP and to the Tov "Harkigaz Ukraine". Today, I have prepared and forwarded another parliamentary appeal to the NCRECR on the possibility of lowering the tariff for gas distribution services for AT Harkigaz to 35 copies per cubic meter. I would like to emphasize once again that I, along with the other members of the "Serial of the People" faction, will continue to make every effort to remedy the situation that has arisen with housing and utility tariffs. Please contact my public receptions, which can be found on the official site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on my personal page in Facebook. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u167	Thank you. Igor Gus, MP's Party for the Future. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u168	Igor Goose, 19th MP's constituency, Volin, MP's Group for the Future. I'd like to address Prime Minister Dennis Schmigal in my speech. You know, I represent a district that borders with the European Union and actually there are two customs crossings in my district: Stylish and Yagodin. I am convinced that tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians, who are actually watching the "Council" channel and not only are going to the European Union or are coming from the European Union through these two customs passages. Because they are, in principle, one of the basic and key to our country. But every Ukrainian who crosses the border or in the customs crossing of Stylish, or in the customs crossing of Strawberries, faces the situation that it's not a service zone, it's a barn. It's just bread. It's a shame to say that today we want to go to the European Union, and we have two basic, serious customs transitions in fact have no conditions for citizens and the European Union and Ukraine. In 2012, 6 million euros were allocated for the customs crossing of Stylish. And what we see is that 3 million euros have been implemented, we haven't done anything, we've buried the boiler and the dot, we've had to go back to the budget. There wasn't one in the strawberry. I want to tell you that a few years ago, there was a story when the Republic of Poland gave credit for the border roads. What do you think? Volina received 4 million out of 100 million, and our colleagues lobbyed, the lions and the carpentry received 96 million euros. I'm talking to Mr. Schmigal, customs and overseas officials. My friends, by the end of 2020, it was also like a procedure to allocate some funds to arrange the transitions, and Styrofoam and Strawberry got 0 bracelets. Well, the people who cross the border there, they meet and see that it's a barn, it can't be that way. I demand that you pay attention to that. I'm not saying it takes hundreds of millions. Please find the tools, at least start this process, so that some of the work will start in 2021 and at the Ustilug customs crossing, and the Yagodin customs crossing will start because it will be the right European approach to Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u169	Thank you. Dmitry Costuck, "Serial of the People" faction. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u170	Thank you. Dmitry Kostuk, Žitomirščina, "Serve of the People" faction. The week that's gone by, I'd call it "the week of purification." This week, two and three truly historic decisions were made. Despite the opposition of the officers who were used to nightmare business, we were able to make a decision, to vote in the Supreme Council on a bill that eliminates the so-called "K" department, a department that allegedly fights economic crimes. In fact, the department’s employees have become accustomed to unwarranted searches and bribes. Although the BSB is to fight against the influence of its external enemies, with the fifth column inside the country working to destabilize the country, Ukraine is to lose its sovereignty. Therefore, the reform of the BSS is a clean-up of services from corruption. The second solution is a historic one that cannot be done immediately after the Dignity Revolution, which is the beginning of the clearing of Ukraine's information space. Cleansing of media created and financed by an aggressor country is financed by former regions, the Kremlin. Those organizations that have worked for a long time to discredit Midan’s ideas, the Ukrainian’s desire to live in a European independent country, and not to be in a colony of Moscow. The third decision we were supposed to make over a year ago is to clean up the party of power. Clearing the party of power from the influence of the oligarchic forces, from those who are trying to undermine the fundamental reforms that we have developed within our political power. Now we can move forward with new forces, demand changes to the law and want Ukraine to become a full member of the EU, NATO, and Ukraine to be rich, live in an independent sovereign country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u171	Thank you. Oksana Savichuk, a national MP, is invited to attend. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u172	I welcome all the Ukrainians, all those who care about the fate of local self-government. I'm a majority deputy, and what we have today is an incomplete reform of decentralization, it has a significant impact on how new communities will develop, what will continue to happen with new structures called "regions," which are created, and what powers and how will happen in places through district administrations. I want to raise a few of the most painful questions that can be solved very quickly and painlessly. The newly created district councils, which were established on the basis of district centres, are those structures that, in their vast majority, have merged through the merger of such territories and district councils, such as the Ivano-Frankov newly created area of 250,000 people. You can imagine what a huge structure that is. But in the absence of the establishment of the Ivano-Frankow District State Administration, there is no executive body such as financial administration and any payment, even in the size of 1 bracelet, that is impossible to pay as a minimum the minimum wage for that device. They're all over the place. We also asked MPs, and we asked the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Community Development, to discuss these issues at meetings with the Association of Cities, but the visa was still there. This question is in no way moving forward or backward. So I hope that the basic decision from the Ministry of Finance should still be, because the Supreme Council, by its vote, has created these areas, we have held elections to them, so we are responsible for those people and for those structures that are now being created in Ukraine. The second thing, which, unfortunately, was not taken into account by the government's decision, is to allow people in places to use more public transport. I want to ask this question first of all because it's very painful. We understand very well that there is a part of carriers as utilities and those who are actually private carriers. And very often, to get to work in the morning, to get to work, or to school, people are not able to sit on the road, because only sitting places are allowed in public and municipal transport. We asked to allow 50 percent of the standing space, which would allow you to get a minimum service, to get to where you want to go. Hopefully, such simple things can be put into practice in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u173	Thank you. The People's Deputy George Mazurasu, the "Serve of the People" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u174	George Mazurashu, 203 District, Cherniewecka District, "Serve of the People". Dear colleagues, the honourable fellow citizens who see this video, I would like to address you with a request to try not to give in to manipulative influences. I am respectful, and my whole life I have viewed the right of citizens to express their position, to criticize the authorities. The authorities must be criticized, but specifically, for specific decisions that are detrimental to the State, the Ukrainian people, and not manipulative. And I ask my own constituents and other adequate people, protesting not to go as far as blocking traffic, road transport, because it's inappropriate and inappropriate. I suggest that it is most effective to protest in places, near local authorities, softly, culturally, correctly, asking for, for example, some problems to be addressed by authorities that have the authority to solve them. And I also ask you to address and demand change realistically. Because you can demand populists there, I don't know, giving out all the gas for free or giving out 2 kips of electricity is just unrealistic. And now I'm going to move on to an important point that allowed us to choose Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelensky as president of Ukraine, and to choose us as national deputies is justice. This is the point that is actually done and now only because of political will. And one of the important elements of this, the realization of this justice, is, in my opinion, the limitation of the maximum wage in the public sector, for example, seven minimum wages or with all ten bracelets, as I suggest. And I assure you that as many as seven minimum wages as we have national deputies, about enough to live properly, to feel confident and to work for the state and for the Ukrainian people. So I'm asking my colleagues to support, and people, just as mass display, to demonstrate their support for this position so that we can, in the near future, limit the maximum wages of the budget. Let them go into business and earn as much as they can. And whoever has a conscience, the fact that more than ten wages now, put on charity, on social projects, and it'll be fair on the part of those who get huge immoral wages out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u175	Irina Konstanovic, MP's Party for the Future. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u176	Dear Ukrainians! Irina Konstankevich, 23rd constituency, Volin. Today, the members of the Supreme Council have supported a very important bill on culture and, in particular, that we need to optimize the network of cultural institutions, we need to take a different approach to the organization of the cultural sphere. But at the same time, everyone who spoke in the Parliamentary Hall stressed that, unfortunately, culture is now at risk. And if nothing changes on the part of the government and on the part of the central government, we can bring the cultural sector into a collapse. What I mean. The point is that we have a cultural distribution in the country between the centers of Kiev, Lviv, Kharkiv, and those who live in rural, small areas, and unfortunately there is a colossal underfunding. The greatest risks await Ukrainian culture now under conditions of decentralization, since all expenditures are translated into local budgets. And will these budgets be able to maintain these facilities? For example, I want to say to Volina that it's not real. We have over 1 000 cultural establishments in Volina, 17 museums just utilities and 90 on public grounds, 252 libraries. What territorial communities will be able to keep all of this going? They won't. That's why I'm addressing the head of government, I'm addressing Mr. Alexander Tkachenk's culture minister, I'm asking the finance minister to do the right thing and to provide sufficient funding for cultural institutions. The other one. As Marjorie MPs from Future Group, we're going to make proposals to cultural laws so that culture can be financed from the state budget through targeted subsidies. And the third important question that I want to stress. It can't be that low not to say small, the wages of cultural workers are between 5,000 and 8,000 dollars. Please tell me, can the director of a club or a cultural house or a librarian work for such a salary? It's a disgrace. So I'm talking to everyone, not just the Marjorie MPs, half of whom are in the hall, but those lists that are most of them, think, if we want to have a future, we have to accumulate investment, first of all, financial investment in culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u177	Thank you. Sergey Rudik, MP, Faction For the Future. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u178	Dear Ukrainians, especially those living in the Cherkas region, would like to tell you about the power of social networks -- Facebook. On January 21, this year, I wrote a post with me on the page and did not think that he would attract such attention from the district government. I wrote simple words about the fact that the "Great Building" in Smyla ended without even starting with the fact that the Church District Administration refused to include in the list of key streets of objects to be repaired in the current year, the key streets on which I insisted. At present, the braves, together with their mayor of the "servants" and the largest faction in the Smilian City Council, can count to 4 million, not 40, as was the case in 2018-2019. I was shocked by the operations of the district government. First time he's in. The second day, the letter was registered at the SEDO. On the second day. He writes: "The information you have posted on Facebook since 21.01.2021 regarding the amount of money to be recovered in the territory of the former Smilian region does not correspond to reality. That's why we think it's necessary to correct the facts you've set out and take them into account." And I go on to say, "In the territory of the former Smilian region, in the 21st year, 664 million dollars will be spent on repairs: the state value is 633 million dollars, the local value is 30.5 million dollars." And I have to admit, he was only right in one, not four million gave Smilly, but 8.5. After my assistant severely criticized the district council administration, they gave it 8.5. He'd rather not write it because, first of all, Smilla is not the Smilian region, it's a city of district importance. And I wrote in my post about the city of Smilu, that's almost 70,000 people. Cherkasian ODA! You guys, check it out! The other one. 8.5 million dollars is 1.5 percent of what you give to the Smilian region, to the local self-government, where you have your mayor and your biggest faction on the city council. Less where the mayor of the "For the Future" party is 60, and Smila, where the mayor of the "servants" is 8.5. Therefore, respectable TV voters, make conclusions, do not vote for these liars. Nothing better than, you won't have, it'll only be worse, it'll be too bad. Glory to Ukraine! I've got 15 seconds. Maybe someone else will be able to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u179	Thank you. That was today's last performance in our Miscellaneous. I give my word to Ruslan Alexiyovich with an honorary mission to close today's session.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-05-m0.u180	Thank you, Olenia Constantine. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the following week, national deputies work on committees, commissions, factions, and groups. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, February 16, at 10 a.m. I now declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you. And please, traditional photos, those left behind.
