ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u1	Dear colleagues, in response to the requirement of 153 Ukrainian national deputies and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we are holding today’s next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies are requested to prepare for registration. I'm reminding you that registration is done by clicking. Sergei Volodymyrovich, you know. Ready? Please register. [[16:28:16]] There are 320 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u2	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. First of all, I want to say that my colleague and I have literally returned from the line of separation, where we had the opportunity to visit our boys of the military and girls, starting with the DUK, command of the United Forces operation, the Special Operations Force, the Naval Forces and so on. And I want to say, and thank you from this rostrum, and welcome to the coming festivals our entire army. And I would like, apart from a minute of silence, how often we meet here in Parliament, we would welcome them and thank them for their willingness to stand up for our state. [[Applause]] Thank you. Believe me, they'll be very pleased. Because we've talked a lot about the fact that Ukrainian society forgets the value of military, veteran, how often we forget to just thank them for their service. But, in addition, I would like to draw your attention to other things, these things apply particularly to the Azov Sea. We've forgotten very well and long ago what it's like to be a marine state and we see how difficult and difficult it is for the Navy to rise up and rebuild their abilities and powers. This time we had the opportunity to enter the Azova Sea. And you know, in fact, we go a mile and a half to the Russian Federation FSB Coast Guard ship, where we've been warned twice about the impossibility of approaching their ship. What's more, it's actually 4-5 miles away from Mariupol and it's calmly monitoring what's going on at sea and what's going on on the shore. So, honourable colleagues, to understand your own time, 17 years ago, this very hall of April 23 had the so-called and voted Kerchen Treaty, which envisions and speaks of the Azov Sea as a shared historical sea and water for use by the Russian Federation and the State of Ukraine, where in fact two countries would allow each other to enter through the Kerchny Protocol, use ports for their purposes, and miss out on a certain regime on certain state vessels, military vessels or commercial ships. So since the 14th year, after the aggression and the annexation of the Crimean Peninsula, the mosquitoes have been putting a big bolt on this deal. What does that mean? This means that they quietly built themselves a bridge. This means that they control our fishermen, our military, and they're giving permission to pass through the Kerchen Strait, not Ukraine, which actually can't even get to any of their ships and do a test because we don't have, in large measure, military capability. I ask very much of my committee as a professional, I ask the High Commander and the government to consider the possibility of denunciation of this agreement and to stop playing by the rules of the Russian Federation, which clearly say that red lines will be set by them, and that is why they will not use any international treaty within the framework of legislation. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u3	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. The first question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2021 to increase expenditure on the enforcement of justice by local, appeals courts (registration number 5304). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:32:51]] For 275 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. No discussion? I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 to increase the costs of ensuring the administration of justice by local, appeals courts. Please support and vote. [[16:33:34]] For 271 Decision taken. All of it? I'll bet you a vote. Who's against it? Two factions against. Exactly two against? Even if one national MP is against it. Head of the committee, you'll be talking to your colleagues next time. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activation of the activities of scientific parks (registration number 4236). The difference. You've got it all going on. 4236. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:34:54]] For 272 Yours, colleagues. Please go there, Ivan Grigorovich. First Deputy Minister of Education and Science Kizim Mikola Aleksandrovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u4	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! The Ministry of Education and Science has developed a draft of the Ukrainian Act to amend certain laws of Ukraine on the revitalization of scientific parks. The draft legislative act was designed to elect a programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill will help solve such problems as: the bureaucratic process of creating scientific parks; the ban on higher education institutions and scientific institutions to be founders of several scientific parks; the lack of their own infrastructure; and the need to use large amounts of funds for renting and equipment. The bill proposes to give higher education institutions, scientific institutions the following: the right to create scientific parks without agreement with the Ministry of Education and Science, as well as to determine for themselves the direction of their activities — article 7, article 8 of the law; the right to be founders of several scientific parks — article 13 of the law; and the possibility of renting places of scientific parks on the floor — article 20 of the law. The draft law was publicized. He agrees with all interested central executive bodies, supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Education, Science and the Committee on Integration of Ukraine from the EU, with a proposal to be considered in the first reading and accepted as a basis. The Ministry of Education and Science asks the National Deputies to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u5	Thank you. The co-rapporteur of the committee’s Subcommittee on Education, Science, and Innovation, Koluch Valeriy Viktorovich, is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Valérie.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u6	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Education, Science and Innovation, in accordance with the requirements of article 93 of the Rules of the Supreme Council at its meeting on 12.03. In 2021, I reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Revitalization of Scientific Parks (Registration No. 4236), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As the Ministry of Education and Science pointed out, the aim of adopting a draft legislative act is to improve the efficiency of scientific parks of innovation. In accordance with article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the revitalization of scientific parks (registration number 4236) as a result of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u7	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for, one for, one for, two for, two for factions. Ustenko Aleksei Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u8	Colleagues, a very important bill. Yesterday we had the anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy, and imagine that if God hadn't given today was the same tragedy where we would have taken as many chemists, as many physicists could have responded to that problem very quickly. So it is important to support our scientists, to support our young people in developing science in Ukraine. For 30 years, our science has been funded on a definitive basis, and that's why we don't have the ability to produce the vaccine so quickly today, so we don't have the opportunity to make our country innovative. So let's vote and support our scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u9	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u10	I'd like to give you a word to the Pottery of Alexia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u11	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u12	Dear friends. Alexei Honcharenko, European Solidarity and a delegate of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Today, an unprecedented event has occurred. At the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Regulatory Committee has denied me three months' notice of a complaint by the head of the Russian delegation of Vice-Speaker of the Russian Federation, Peter Tolstoy. This bastard, Ukrainianophobic, anti-Semitic, Europeanaphobic, man, you know, where the glue is nowhere to be put, wrote a complaint against me for insulting him, him and Putin, and it was decided for three months to take my word. In fact, they're not taking the word away from me, they're taking the word away from our political power, they're taking the word away from Ukraine. And I want to tell you, they have the next idea, they want to punish me in the next session and for this flag that was shot with Russian bullets, a flag that was handed over to me by the Ukrainian military to show it in the parliamentary assembly room, which I did. I want to say one thing, no one can ever shut their mouths to Ukraine. We will fight, and we will defend our rights, yes it is, and so it will be. And Mr. Tolstom and Putin, I want to say one thing: you bastard, you can translate every word I say and write another clause, and the complaint is the maximum you're capable of. Maybe you're Count Tolstoy in there, and we've got you straight." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u13	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Head! Regarding the bill that we are considering, I would like to point out the following: firstly, the bill introduces the legislation of Ukraine that regulates the activities of scientific parks in accordance with earlier laws, that is, it refines and regulates them. It also refines the specific provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Innovation, on scientific parks and on the rental of state and municipal property – this is for those who are listening to us now. The other one. The law, if approved, creates conditions for commercializing the activities of scientific parks, including foreign legal persons, and this is very important. Such an approach can stimulate the development of science through higher education institutions and become a barrier to the flow of intellectual resources abroad. The participation of foreign legal persons in the activities of Ukrainian scientific parks is more acceptable than the work of Ukrainian scientists in foreign scientific and scientific institutions, and this is the very basic conclusion of this law. The main scientific and export administration proposes to establish a minimum share of the educational institution or scientific institution in the statutory capital of the scientific park, an appropriate observation that can be adjusted and further developed in the second reading. The bill is important, progressive, promising, and most importantly, once again, I want to emphasize that we have to stop under any circumstances, including at the legislative level the flow of intellectual potential from Ukraine. "Paternality" will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u15	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. Aresonkov Volodymyr, Deputy Group "Trust". Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u16	Thank you, Madam Chairman! Vladimir Aresonkov, Deputy Group "Trust", Žitomirščina. Dear colleagues, at last, a daily bill that deals with an extremely important, strategic field of education and science in Ukraine. I want to thank the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science, the representatives of the committee of profile, for the important document that we are discussing and preparing to accept today. And it's vast and deep in its contents. Because it's not just about a particular narrow direction related to science parks, it's about implementing, I think, strategic, fundamental principles for reforming Ukraine's higher education system, where we have foreseen the autonomy of a wide range of higher education institutions, creating conditions for our universities, research and research institutes to be able to enter into joint agreements, agreements with business representatives, public-private partnerships, the introduction of wide-ranging innovation technologies and their practical implementation. These are the important things in the bill. I'll give you just one example, John Frank's Lifetime State University, together with one of the companies called Zitomir, has tried for many years to create the devices that are necessary for our secondary educational institutions, for the offices of physics, informatics, chemistry. Today, this law opens the way for scientific research. Dear colleagues, the Trust MP Group supports this direction and will vote in favour of this bill and I urge everyone to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u17	Thank you. With Natalie Pip's motives, yes. Please, the Voice faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u18	Good afternoon! Natalia Pippa, Voice faction, Lviv, 115th District. Science parks are really needed by Ukraine and are being brought to an international level by this very bill. Today, there is really no clearly defined legal status of scientific parks, they have problems with renting premises, with equipment, well, and in fact every movement of the science park has to be in line with the state. These are the framework that prevents the development of scientific parks. Our position is to support science and science parks. And the four main things this bill does: it gives autonomy to higher education institutions and scientific institutions to create scientific parks, once. Second, it clearly defines the legal status of scientific parks. Third, it gives scientific parks the right to set their own course of action. And fourthly, it removes restrictions on some of the sources of funding for science parks. This bill is not perfect, but it's definitely better than what we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u19	Thank you. For reasons, please, Irina Konstanovic, the MP's Party for the Future. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u20	The parliamentary group "For the Future" will of course support this bill, because we also consider our colleagues that science is the future of Ukraine. Because science creates a competitive environment, it creates progress. But at the same time, I would like to point out that this bill, besides being a green light for the development of science parks, is also trying to overcome the two diseases that exist in the education and science environment, is total bureaucracy and total underfunding. That's why we're asking the government, and we're asking the President to look at these two problems that are facing national science and education: bureaucracy and underfunding. We vote in favour, but we hope that the funds will be allocated both for science and for education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u21	Thank you. From the motive, please, Julia Ovchinnikov, the "Serve of the People" faction. Everyone else has already spoken, I understand. Please, Mrs. Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u22	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I wanted to add a very short note, which is very important to note that all innovations in the European Union now contain an environmental component. So I turned to the vice president of the subcommittee, to the committee that it's still important for the second reading to bring in the environmental component. If we look at the Ministry's website, we see that there are officially 36 scientific parks in Ukraine. If we look at the activity and function of each of these parks, we see that most of them have this environmental component, the environmental component. It is very important to pay attention to Article 360 of the EU Association Agreement in order to implement environmental policy in all spheres of policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u23	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. All national deputies, please take your seats in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u24	I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the revitalization of scientific parks (registration number 4236). Ready to vote, ready? Please support and vote. [[16:50:33]] For 330. Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue is the draft Law on Financial Services and Financial Companies (Registration No. 5065). It is suggested that a decision be made to include the matter in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[16:51:03]] For 279 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:51:25]] For 260 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Danilo Aleksandrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what is this bill about? In the fall of 19th, you and I adopted a so-called "split" bill, the "bank plot", which virtually eliminated the National Commission of Financial Services and redistributed the power to regulate the non-bank financial market between the National Bank of Ukraine and the National Commission of Stock Markets and Securities. Since July 1, 20th, the National Bank has assumed authority to regulate the relevant market for non-bank financial services. The prescribed law is called upon to be a fundamental legal act that will regulate relations in the field of financial services. It accordingly establishes a common position for the entire financial market on the identification of key principles and principles for the implementation of activities, the protection of the rights of customers and consumers, the identification and organization of contracts with financial services providers, information relations in this area, and advertising requirements. The bill introduces a risk-oriented approach to supervision and the principles of productive supervision in the area indicated. The Institute of Qualified Investors is being introduced and other financial regulation provisions are being identified, the National Bank of Ukraine’s Credit Register is expanding, and the requirements for financial companies and pawnbrokers are being defined. Please support this bill and launch another outstanding class reform in the financial sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u26	Thank you. A co-reporter, head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy of Ella Ripin, is invited to the floor. Please, Mrs. Ella.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u27	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on March 11, 2021, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law, registration number 5065, financial services, and financial companies. The bill is called upon to create opportunities for the development of the financial services market as well as financial institutions in the various segments of the market, to become the basis for requiring activities, regulation and supervision in accordance with international practices to ensure that the financial services market works more effectively. Most of the rules set out in the conclusions of the project are now in force. The working groups considered all the comments that would be taken into account when preparing the draft for second reading. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on financial services and financial companies to be adopted as a basis. To entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs with the task of finalizing the proposed bill in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council" to amend the text of the draft on the agreement between the laws of the newly adopted Ukrainian Law on Financial Lease. We're counting on your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u28	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies — Is There a Need for Discussion? Yes. Please sign in: two in, two in, two in. Please sign up for the discussion. Please, Stepan Kube, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u29	May I have the floor, Madam Chairman, Nina Petrovni Jujanini. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u30	Nina Yuzanin. Please, Mrs. Nina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u31	Dear colleagues! Honorable Predestination! In fact, last year we adopted with you, we voted here on the "slip" law, which was developed by experts and experts on the eighth call. And the committee on the eighth call. Since last year, however, the NBA has started to develop a new draft of the Law on Financial Services and Financial Companies, which is to be the basis for updating professional sector laws. What do we have now? Project 5065 can certainly be called the law of resupply. The text of the document contains more than 100 provisions on the definition of the specific conditions and requirements for the operation of the financial market by the NCBs. And this has to be defined at the level of the law. And I talked about it at the committee meeting and I asked the committee head not to make such mistakes, because this is about very important issues. For example, when it comes to giving. on requirements for financial services, licensing, checks, sanctions, confidentiality of the provision of financial services and many others. More than 100 law enforcement standards are to be developed by the National Bank of Ukraine. At the same time, it seems very risky to have NBA's right to apply professional judgement when it comes to overseeing financial services. Very discreet tools and norms, principles and procedures to be defined by the NBA. Today they are used only for banks and only in limited cases. In doing so, the project does not contain the full extent of the powers of the NBA and so forth. As a result, a pooling of financial market participants, comprising 15 associations of different financial markets, on March 25 of this year, asked the Head of the Supreme Council about the need to send the project back for rereading, because its position could not be further developed for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. Here comes Eugenius Bragar, the "Serve of the People" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u33	Good afternoon! In short, this bill relates to the regulation of the financial services market, a market that does not function for the first ten years in our country. On the other hand, we don't have a professional branch law that actually regulates this area. We need this market to function according to clear clear rules, but we need to adopt this bill accordingly in order to increase investment attractiveness in order for the market to function without any problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u34	Thank you. Andrey Nikolainko, the "Fatherland" faction, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u35	Dear colleagues, Nikolainka, the Fatherland faction. We're not going to be able to support this bill in its present form, because we're dividing the position of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority that the adoption of this law in its current form will actually lead to duplication and confusion in the legislative field. Clearly, the Financial Services Act, which is now 20 years old, is morally outdated and needs work, and should take into account modern opportunities and trends. However, given that the bill provides for an excessive, in our view, extension of the regulatory function of the National Bank, which will regulate a large part of the legal and regulatory relationship, and taking into account the concerns of market subjects about the fact that this bill can actually transform the NCBs' credit register into a state monopoly bureau of credit history by establishing privileged business conditions for them, and that the bill does not provide for real mechanisms for the judicial protection of the interests of financial market participants. In general, the bill requires substantial technical and legal work. A particularly controversial issue is the identification of the consumer of financial services. Therefore, Fatherland will remain in the vote for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u36	Thank you. Here comes Julia Klimenko, the Voice faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u37	Vladimir Tsabal, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, what is this law about? It's very simple. For a while ago, we passed the "slip" Act. This law passed on the regulation of financial services, namely: pawnbrokers, financial companies, there's money in 10 minutes and so on, transferred it to the National Bank. Was that the right decision? Yes, it was the right decision. Why? Because the Nazcomfin service regulator was bureaucratic and failed to cope with his function. So in the non-bank financial services market, excuse me for that word, but we had the bad '90s, while in the banking market regulatory policy was already at European level. Now that the law has been passed on to the National Regulatory Bank, the law that contains this regulation needs to be adopted. And that's the law we're talking about right now. Unfortunately, that version of the law, which is now being developed before the first reading, is not fully worked out. It's already said that there's a lot of repellent standards, which means that the law just says that something has to be developed by the National Bank and what's not clear. There are so many inexhaustible powers of the National Bank and so on. Nevertheless, the Voice faction supports that such a law must be passed. But unfortunately, before the first reading, we won't be able to vote and if it's accepted in the first reading, we'll be fruitfully working on having it further worked out for the second reading, and so that this important reform for the financial sector is adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u38	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr. Thanks for the show. Have all the national MPs spoken? I see there's another group called Party for the Future. Everyone else? All of them. Please give the word to the faction "For the Future" group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u39	Dear colleagues, we will support this initiative, but there is a question that the rights of FOPs and the rights of legal persons are not taken into account, because they are also consumers of financial services. But that's all the fight against the consequences, because now we see that there are 7,000 banking units left and they're shrinking, and the pawnshops, the number of them is increasing, they're already over 6,000 per country. And why is this happening? Because Ukrainians go around and lay down their belongings. Why is this happening? Because we are now witnessing a tariff genocide, a coronary genocide, and abusing entrepreneurs, and people are forced to lay the last estate to survive. And these are the problems that the "ministers of the people" next year have to fight in this room, not the consequences. So please pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u40	Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the draft Law on Financial Services and Financial Companies (registration No. 5065). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:05:30.]] For 247 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to improve the legal regulation of agricultural insurance with State support (Registration No. 5104). It is suggested that a decision be made to include the matter in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[17:06:11]] For 288 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:06:33]] For 260 Decision taken. The Deputy Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture, Visatsky Taras Mikolajovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u41	Dear Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, a year ago, just at this time, many agrarians of the South and Bessarabia encountered drought, and unfortunately they had difficulties in compensating these losses. One reason for this was the absence of advanced agricultural insurance, crops, crops, and crops in Ukraine. Why has agro-prudential development not developed or developed today? First, because in 2012, an agrarian insurance pool was created that forced everyone to enter and actually pay certain payments. This bill eliminates this disgraceful phenomenon. The other one. In the 2000s, there were a lot of support programs, there were insurance, but when there was a force majeure, no payments were made, so trust in insurance companies was lost. The bill clearly sets out the criteria and requirements for insurance companies to be respected in order to receive State support from a multi-year perspective, positive experience of payment of insurance payments and intimidation in international insurance companies. Third. Not all of them were clearly defined, and the bill defines them. And finally, the mandate of the authorized authority is clarified, the previous bill mentioned Nazcomfin services, the currently authorized body is the National Bank of Ukraine, and this is noted. The bill supports agrarians in the fight against force majeure and will allow the development of the agrarian sector to continue. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u42	Thank you. The co-reporter of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Gettmants, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Danilo.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u43	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat the key points of this bill. This bill is about to revive the insurance mechanism with the State-aided risks of agricultural producers, those producers who have just been told by the deputy minister that they sometimes suffer from drought, sometimes from floods, sometimes from another disaster. The insurance mechanism works all over the world and is effective at compensating the losses of our crops. What is stipulated in the law? The law provides for a mechanism to provide State support to agricultural producers for agricultural insurance. Participants in the agricultural insurance market with State support are determined by this law, as well as by the requirements for them, rights and obligations, insurance products, insurance risks, and insurance, as well as information security for agricultural products with State support. At the same time, the current legislation on agricultural insurance through the Agrarian Insurance Pool is being repealed, as well as the clarification of the powers of the authorized authority, which is responsible for the State’s supervision of insurance activities. As a result of the committee's consideration of the bill, the committee recommended that the Supreme Council support the bill on the basis. Please support and vote with the green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? There is a need for discussion. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please sign up for the discussion. Galina Vasilchenko, the Voice faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u45	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Of course, the agrarian sphere is a very specific sphere, which is significantly affected by weather conditions and various force majeure conditions. And when it comes to large agribusinesses, yes, they can, by their financial means, provide themselves with appropriate insurance and thus anticipate the risks they may face. And when we talk about small and medium-sized farmers, micro-entrepreneurs, it's actually quite difficult for them because they always lack financial resources. And this bill actually provides an opportunity for small, medium-sized farms to have adequate opportunities and State support so that they can develop as well as large agro-enterprises. I recall that only last year some 400,000 acres [400,000 ha] of crops were destroyed in connection with drought, and behind all these businesses are farmers, our Ukrainian farmers. Therefore, such a bill clearly needs to be supported in order for the strategic branch of Ukraine to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u46	Thank you. Taras Batenko, group, Party for the Future. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u47	Thank you. I'd like you to give it to my colleague, Sergey Labazuyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u48	Please, Sergey Labazuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u49	Dear colleagues! Our agriculture is under constant stress: whether it's a flood, or a drought, or an HlS in pig agriculture, or other factors that are not provided for today's small, low-tech enterprises, or small ones. Therefore, the insurance system clearly requires order and work. The Bill 5104, which provides for a substantial expansion of the list of insurance cases, first of all, cancels the monopoly for which the deputy minister, who did not work and did not allow the so-called insurance pool to work. And of course, there is an opportunity for us today to resolve a situation where compensation and support for insurance in an agri-industrial complex is clearly not up to 60 percent, but clearly how much. Because the Ministry claims 50 percent of the support, and in fact, the bill that prescribes up to 60 percent may be 5 percent, and 10. So the Group "For the Future" supports this bill in the first reading and will propose to work on it between the first and second readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u50	Gerasimov Arthur. Nina Petrovna Jujanina
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u51	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! Business support is not just on the air. Because the passed previous law is right for you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, 15 professional associations have been called, this is their life, this is their activity that will be stopped. And they're the ones who asked you to ask the head of the profiling committee to adopt, on the first reading, a law that doesn't fit the concept at all, according to the previous law. As far as this law is concerned. In fact, it's very important that among the successful worlds. A successful world experience is a mechanism such as State support from producers through the State's participation in compensation for part of farmers' payments in future crop insurance, without which they may have significant losses, especially under such different weather conditions – floods or droughts. And to be heard again, in the U.S., basic agricultural crops are insured by 86 percent, their area is sown, and in Ukraine only up to 5 percent. What question did we ask? I put him on a committee meeting. At what cost will the State compensate for insurance costs? Since this will be redistributed within the existing budget to support agrarians, of course we will support this bill. But I would like to say that in the agricultural field, there are a lot of associations and they have different opinions on this issue. And some say that they support this approach, and others say, please consider our wishes and our visions. I would very much like this bill not to have such an attitude in some colleagues who, when they're comfortable, say one thing when they're uncomfortable -- they're starting to move on, I mean lowering the VAT rate to 14 percent. This law was passed to everyone in the room, and now the "hi-hi, ha-ha" is sitting there, sitting there with something that doesn't like it and starting to rebuild the entire agar sector. Exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u52	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u53	Thank you. Please give the word to my colleague Oleg Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u54	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u55	Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Dear colleagues, we actually had huge problems in the agricultural sector in the south of the country last year when drought caused a huge loss of 50 percent of crops in the Odessa, Herson, Mikolai region. Unfortunately, this fact does not have an effective legislative mechanism that would allow agrarian companies, from small to medium-sized companies, to apply the agrarian insurance mechanism. It's this bill that clearly prescribes an effective production insurance mechanism in the agricultural sphere. So our group will support this bill. Of course, it will have to be followed up on the second reading, and we will apply. But I want to support my colleagues, which is extremely important, so that we can apply the best experience in European countries just to the insurance of agricultural products. We vote yes, and we ask our colleagues to support this bill as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u56	Is there anyone else who would like to make a statement? Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u57	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. As Mrs. Jujanina said, we have also studied in detail the address of a number of associations, and we do not like the way in which the State is doing so in this bill. What we need to help, especially this year, is understandable. The question is, in fact, the state budget will go directly to insurance companies. We suggest that the State pay this kind of support by compensating, not premiums, but insurance cases, and that it is the right thing to do. And this practice in the world works, it's shown more effectively. So we're going to see that money is actually going to go from the state budget to certain defined insurance companies and that's the end of it. Just so we're clear. Usually this is what I have, 43 percent just goes for compensation, everything else is the profits of insurance companies. And that's why we're going to hold on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on Improving Legal Regulations for Agricultural Insurance with State Support (Registration No. 5104). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:20:33]] For-286 Decision taken. Thank you. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u59	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, but above all, respected Ukrainian youths! Now we're going to be looking at this session room in the second reading of the bill on the basic principles of youth policy under registration number 3718. For more than 20 years, the entire young Ukrainian community had been awaiting this law. This is a law that is new to understanding: and what youth policy must be like. No decision will be made without young people. Young people will be involved in all government processes, and most importantly, they will make decisions that affect young people. This law is intended to create a special fund that will be filled not only with public budget funds, but with international institutions, private funds, so that we can actually support youth initiatives, and youth organizations will have institutional support from the state. This is what I think it takes right now for young people to believe in their country and not think about going abroad and staying here, and those who left came back to Ukraine to develop and realize themselves here. It's the key. If we do not return face to youth, we will not be able to build a truly European state, a state that will be economically capable of developing, a state where new technologies will prevail. So I would like to thank the colleagues of the various factions who supported this bill. Our "Fatherland" team, the "Fatherland" team of a young man over five years old, has adopted the first bill on this subject in the Parliament's session hall. After the election in 2019, the team and the People's Servants, the teams of other factions, this and the Voice, this and the EU, this and even the CPS, I want to count them all, but they supported the initiative to have this bill voted, and I hope that this bill will bring together the session hall and we will be able to make a gift for the Ukrainian youth today, and show that we are capable of supporting more than 300 people's deputies. I think it should be supported and signed by the President, and so we will go with you to a consolidated position when young people see themselves as being implemented in those initiatives that are being taken in this session hall. Thank you to all those who have been involved in drafting the bill and I hope that it will be supported. Come on, guys, let's join the session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next question, as John Ivanovich Krulko said, is a draft of the Youth Policy Basics Act. Will someone insist on their work? No discussion, no discussion. Vote. Thank you, Your Honor. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on the Basic Principles of Youth Policy (registration number 3718). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:24:51]] For 321 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. The next issue of the agenda is the Act of Ukraine amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the provision of detained, suspected, accused, convicted right to receive legal aid, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (registration number 2063). No discussion? I would like to vote on the proposal to refer to the committee to amend the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the provision of security for detained, suspected, accused, convicted of obtaining legal aid, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (registration No. 2063). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:26:05]] For 325 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to ensure the phased implementation of the Single Court Information and Telecommunications System (Registration No. 3985). Now, please prepare for the vote. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? I'm betting on a draft law. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to ensure the phased implementation of the Single Court Information and Telecommunications System (registration No. 3985). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:27:54]] For 261 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, a proposal has come from the committee head to postpone the consideration of Bill 2164 at the end of this extraordinary plenary meeting. I know you're all aware. Thank you. You are invited to consider, also second reading, the draft Act amending the Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges on the settlement of individual matters of service at the Judicial Service (Registration No. 3935). Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges on the Settlement of Certain Matters of the Service of the Judicial Service (Registration No. 3935). Please support and vote. [[17:29:28]] For 277 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine for the implementation of the information and telecommunications system of pre-trial investigation (registration number 5246). It is suggested that a decision be made to include the matter in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[17:30:09]] For 270. Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:30:37]] For 253 Decision taken. Malijka Denis Leontijovich, Minister of Justice, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u61	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please support the bill submitted by the President of Ukraine on the introduction of the telecommunications system in pre-trial investigation. It's not just the convenience of the work of the investigative bodies and the environmentality of future transfer, including the complete transfer of criminal conduct into electronic format, it's also an additional guarantee for all involved in criminal conduct. First of all, the defense will be able to obtain, get acquainted with criminal conduct material electronically, get all the materials electronically, and get acquainted with such materials in a convenient time and way. It's a huge plus for the defense side. The second is that we will no longer have any dispute as to whether the materials were actually given to the parties to the defence in full, or whether they were changed when the materials were transferred to the court. It's a huge number of misunderstandings or disputes, and it's also done by this bill after the introduction of the system. And the third, equally important, is that all the wars that we've heard about in the important criminal conduct of someone who has to conduct a trial, which of the authorities that have to hand over the materials of criminal conduct, will also disappear, because physical transmission will no longer be necessary, change of access, rights of access to materials will already be automated. And so this is a cost reduction, it's an environmentality, it's a convenience, and it's a protection of the rights of the participants in criminal conduct. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u62	The Vice - Chief of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Pavlük Maksim Vasilovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u63	The President-in-Office of the Supreme Council for Law Protection at its meeting on 14 April 2021, the President-in-Office of the Supreme Council reviewed the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine for the implementation of the information and telecommunications system of pre-trial investigation (Registration No. 5246). The bill is intended to complement the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine with the provisions proposed to establish the legal basis for the use of the information and telecommunications system of pre-trial investigation in the activities of participants in criminal conduct. In the course of the discussion, Ukrainian national MPs supported the idea of the bill and noted that its adoption would guarantee the preservation of information and information in criminal proceedings, as well as reduce the corruption risks that may arise as a result of the abuse of powers by the judicial authorities. The ultimate objective of the introduction of the information and telecommunications system of pre-trial investigation is to minimize and, as a result, to completely deny in the future the paperwork at the stage of pre-trial investigation and judicial proceedings. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Law Protection recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part one of the first and part two of article 114 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine concerning the implementation of the information and telecommunications system of pretrial investigation (registration number 5246). As a result of the first reading, accept as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u64	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Bragar Eugene Vadimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u65	Good afternoon, colleagues! Today it is a step in the 21st century in the field of pretrial investigations. The point is that finally in 2021, the parties will be able to obtain electronic trial materials. It's very necessary, I think. Moreover, any of the colleagues will agree that one of the main problems in our judicial system is the extraordinary workload of the courts. This involves the fact that from time to time various judicial authorities may lose certain materials, not pass them on to the courts, or other problems. This issue solves the problem. I strongly suggest that you support this bill, which is a very important norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u66	Thank you, Eugene Vadimovich. I've seen you. Have a nice evening! Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u67	To the lube of Dmitri, please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u68	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u69	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will vote, but only in the first reading, for the legislative initiative. In fact, the idea is very, very good, very good. We need to further create a new information and telecommunications system. But there is one thing. We have a minister present. Please tell me, what are we going to do to create and maintain this system? You pointed out in the explanatory note that there is no need for additional spending from Ukraine's State Budget to create such a system, even though we all understand that it is necessary to invest. Where will you take them? And you're doing an analogy with the system that was created in 2017, namely, the only judicial information and telecommunications system that has already spent money on. So since 2017, honourable national MPs, this system doesn't work on the site, and it's said that this system works in research mode. Why doesn't it work? Thus, the National Court of Justice notes that it is not possible to introduce a full system because there is no expenditure from the State Budget of Ukraine. Why create another system if the already created system doesn't work for four years because there's no funds? You know, it feels like you're doing a trial for the trial. Perhaps the first system should lead to a logical conclusion, show that it is practical, helps Ukrainian citizens defend their rights in the courts, and then, at the next stage, create this new system that no one needs at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u70	Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u71	Thank you. Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear Mr. Head, your colleagues, of course, it is true that the bill is eliciting a different assessment from those of other MPs, groups, and in the professional environment, the issue has been dealt with fairly in a very controversial manner. However, I would like to point out that the question, as we talked about, is long overdue and needs and needs to be accepted and implemented by the electronic system. I would like to remind you that the information and telecommunications system of pre-trial investigation is planning to interact with the participants in criminal conduct. A positive aspect may also be the introduction to the criminal conduct of the accused following the completion of a pretrial investigation, which is extremely important. Well, and without a doubt, the transfer of criminal materials to the court, the system also has to speed up the process. At the same time, however, there are those who speak and warn that there is a risk of overcoming power by law enforcement authorities by some form of abuse and falsification. Well, of course all of this is necessary, and it is necessary to settle perhaps for the second reading, although it is proposed to adopt the bill as a whole. The Trust MP Group believes that, despite certain imperfections, this bill is useful, and this system needs to be created, we need to move in time and all the necessary conditions for the work of all the participants in the criminal process need to be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u72	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u73	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Mr. Chairman, the presidency, the distinguished national deputies. In fact, the legal community has long discussed the details of the trial. I continue to think about previous colleagues, whether we are using already active systems effectively, or whether we should create another extra one, maybe by expanding modules. We have the ERDF, we have the other systems already mentioned here, whether they are being used effectively or not. Whether this introduction of another system will decommission investigators and judges, perhaps not. Because the trial should definitely go on both the trial and the trial. I think it's from an explanatory note that there's some extra money that needs to be recovered. Perhaps they had to be sent to a judicial branch of government that had no wages, and today we took away young funds from the Ministry and directed them there. I think we should look very carefully at this issue. And I don't see the need to vote today and to accept it in the first reading, because we're going to think of a second, we don't know what. The Fatherland faction abstains from voting for this legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u74	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote. I bet. Dear colleagues, the committee asks for a basis, and in general, there is no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine for the implementation of the information and telecommunications system of pre-trial investigation (Registration No. 5246). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. Stop voting, please stop voting. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:43:11]] For 272 Decision taken. I'm betting on a motion for acceptance as a whole with the necessary technical and legal ones. I just asked, colleagues. No, Arthur Volodymyrovich, then watch what's going on in the hall. Thank you. Shorten lines? I am voting on the proposal, in part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules on the Reduction of Half of the Period of Submission of Rights and Offers, and on the Preparation for the Second Reading of the Bill (Registration No. 5246). Please support and vote. [[17:44:07]] For 249 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine (Registration No. 5175). We need to make a decision to include this issue in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[17:44:46]] For 291 Decision taken. We were invited to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:45:12]] For 265 Decision taken. I see colleagues are ready without discussion. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Law amending Chapter II of the Law on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine, the Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Reduction of the Deficit Deficit of Black Metals in the Internal Market (Registration No. 5175). Ready to vote. Please support and vote. [[17:45:55]] For 294 For - 295. Decision taken. 294, I'm sorry. Decision taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Bill number 5175. Please support and vote. [[17:46:25]] For 291 Decision taken. Thank you. The law is passed in general. The next issue of the agenda is the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 22 of the Law on Advertising on Advertising of Electronic Cigarettes and Liquids, used in Electronic Cigarettes (Registration No. 4212). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:47:06]] For the 250. Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Ripin Ella Anatoliyevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u75	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. The problem of promoting the use of electronic cigarettes in many studies is enormous and continues to take turns. The saddest part is that electronic cigarettes pose the most serious threat to children and adolescents. Almost every fifth Ukrainian schoolboy aged only 13 to 15 years is now an E-cigaret smoker. Moreover, as many as 70 percent of teenagers feel that smoking electronic cigarettes and TVs is safer or far safer than normal cigarettes. Today, unfortunately, it is becoming fashionable to consume electronic cigarettes and TVs by distributing advertisements that are still banned. As you know, advertising is the engine of trade. Thus, without banning it, we contribute not only to the sale of cigarettes but also to their use. It should be recalled that according to the Presidential Decree on the National Youth Strategy, the main priority of the strategy is to develop healthy lifestyle skills. According to the National Plan of Action for Non-Infectious Diseases approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it is a priority to prohibit tobacco advertising in its entirety. Therefore, given that there are no alternative ways to solve this problem and that there is an exclusive priority in ensuring that the nation’s health is preserved, we propose that the advertising used in these cigarettes be banned at the level of law. Dear colleagues, let us unite our efforts to resolve this problem together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u76	The Deputy Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Susko Pavel Mikolayovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u77	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Increasing restrictions and banning the advertising of electronic cigarettes and liquids used in them, the ultimate goal of which is to restrict the use of electronic cigarettes by the Ukrainian population, is relevant since such cigarettes have been available for sale in the territory of our country. So the proposed 4212 bill, which accumulates all the best efforts of the authors of previous legislative initiatives in this area, needs, in my opinion, special attention from parliamentarians. The Committee on Humanities and Information Policy considered draft Law 4212 at its meeting on November 18, 2020 (Protocol 47), and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a result of the first reading, based on the Committee’s proposals. It should be noted that these proposals come from experts ’ conclusions on the content of the proposed bill and are based on an analysis of the current state of the market for electronic cigarettes and liquids used in them. Thus, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to take into account the following suggestions. The text of Bill No.4212 proposes a new edition of the names and entries of parts of the first, third, ninth, article 22 of the Advertising Act. After the words "electronic cigarettes, liquids used in electronic cigarettes," add the words "smokers for electric heating TVEN, by means of an electronic heating heater and a device for the consumption of tobacco products without heating them" in an appropriate way. To draw the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the need to amend the current legislation of Ukraine on administrative responsibility for violating legislation on regulation of the circulation of electronic cigarettes, fluids used in electronic cigarettes, and tobacco products for electronic heating of TVEN using a heater. If we adopt a proposed bill proposing to the committee, the content of these novelties should also be taken into account when considering other legislative acts that are currently before Parliament and which relate to the advertising of electronic cigarettes and liquids used in them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u79	Please pass the word to Lady Bullach.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u80	Please, Lady Bullach.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u81	Dear colleagues, it is regrettable that this bill did not somehow come to the National Health Committee to reach the very conclusion of our committee, because in this case the advertising of cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, tobacco products for heating is part of public health and the access of young people to smoking. As far as this bill is concerned, I personally support it, I ask the room to support it, because yes, it is punctual, but still the problem of involving young Ukrainians into smoking occurs precisely because of the existing form of electronic cigarette advertising and heating, tobacco heating, so it's a question, it's already yesterday, and we have to ban advertising as quickly as possible for everyone, all tobacco and electronic cigarettes. And the problems that exist in it today may be corrected for second reading, so I ask the room to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine of Ukraine, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u83	I'd like a word with Nina Jujanini. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u84	Please, Nina Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u85	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! The ban on tobacco advertising has been in place since 1996. And yet only since January 1, 2010, article 22 of the Advertising Act has been published in such an editorial that it has clearly established a ban on advertising tobacco products for radio, television, transport, domestic and external advertising. More than 10 years have passed, and there has actually been a significant expansion in the range of tobacco products. I'd like to give you just a few numbers. According to surveys, the number of permanent consumers of electronic cigarettes in the EU increased by 32 percent over the 2017-20 years, to 16 million. That's 13.2 percent of the total number of smokers. In Ukraine, in the 20th year, the electronic cigarette market was estimated at 670,000 people, which is 7 percent of the total number of smokers. And this statistics are constantly increasing. Hence, it is absolutely necessary to adopt this law. And add standards, some changes to article 22. However, the bill does not take fully into account the provisions of Directive 40 concerning certain rules relating to the production, presentation and sale of tobacco and related goods. Some of the standards of Directive 37 are not repealed. As has already been pointed out, there are no amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. Then all these standards that are accepted here will certainly not be fulfilled and will not have any force. And, Your Honor, I'd like to address you. In the Supreme Council, there are already several bills on this issue. Please respect all members of the national parliament and consider issues of the same subject and substance to consider all draft laws in order to make informed decisions and take into account the opinion of all national deputies, not just the one who generates his or her draft laws all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u86	Thank you. The word is given to Polack Anton Eduardoovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u87	Please give the floor to the worthy representative of Cherkaschi to Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u88	I give the floor to the worthy representative of Cherkaschi to Sergio Rudik. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your fine introduction. What could be the position of the MP's Party for the Future on this bill? Of course, we're in favour, like any conscious person in this room, we have to vote in favour of banning advertising and tobacco and electronic cigarettes. In September we voted in our first reading on increasing the responsibility for smoking electronic cigarettes to children and the consequences that this can bring on fluids. This question is being considered only today, at the end of April, on the eve of the Passover. For, for, for, and for. And in closing this talk, please, colleagues, this is about the majority representatives, when you say that IQOS is a bank smoker, young people might view it as advertising, and we have 1 in 4 young men or girls who don't blame me for sexism, they use these fluids. We're not gonna give them that chance. That's why we're proposing to vote "yes" on the first reading and immediately on the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u90	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u91	Dear colleagues, the question, on the one hand, is quite simple and it is clear that everything that is done in Ukraine and in the world by the maximum limit and ban on tobacco advertising, tobacco products, alcohol products, is all of this, without a doubt, a trend in the world. On the other hand, it's a fight for a crazy information flow and an advertising market that you understand is billions and billions. In today's conditions of absolute transparency in advertising in the world, we are well aware that everyone is trying to find loopholes, taking into account the prohibitions that exist, for example, in the European Union that exist in many other countries of the world. We understand very well how a faction, how responsible it is, how much health is not just a young generation, but anyone who abuses any alcohol, any tobacco product, and how much it depends on the imposition of an advertising product. That is why this decision should be adopted on the basis of two key principles: no harm. And I think that's a very clear question. But this decision should come out and take into account how huge this advertising market is and how it will be redistributed in our vote today. I think that for us, the health of the nation is a very important priority. And that's the way it's going to go, and it's going to be the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u92	For reasons of interest? Mazurashu Georgiy Georgievich, please. And then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u93	George Mazurashu is the head of the Committee on Youth and Sport's Subcommittee on Physical Culture and Mass Sport, and I must also make this point. Of course, I support anything that involves banning advertising. But I would say that we should adopt a decision on the total prohibition of both tobacco and alcohol production in our country in general -- that would be a clear contribution to the nation's recovery. And I want to say that this is just a small contribution to the struggle for the healing of our Ukrainian nation, because. And when we have a decision to build a multistory in Kiev instead of a stadium, we also have health problems for young people and adults. And this bill, of course, needs to be supported. I hope that a complete ban on alcohol and tobacco will also be maintained.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u94	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. Then from "Trust," and then we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u95	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Of course, this bill is of social importance, for the health of the nation, especially the health of our young people, is above all. And it is this bill banning advertising, advertising on boards, television advertising, on radio, on electronic cigarette transport that needs to be voted on today in both the first and second readings as a whole. Experts are alarmed that electronic cigarettes are even more harmful than normal. They're even more harmful. Young people, on the other hand, insist that electronic cigarettes can help to make a success of their lives. That's why we need to ban this ad today, vote this bill in the first reading and in general immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u96	Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending article 22 of the Law on Advertising on the Promotion of Electronic Cigarettes and Liquids used in Electronic Cigarettes (registration No. 4212). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:03:50]] For 284 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Water Management and Water Management Act (Registration No. 5202). It is suggested that a decision be made to include the matter in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[18:04:29]] For 256 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[18:04:50]] For 232 Decision taken. I would like to invite you to the floor of the Black Sea Artem Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u97	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head. Good evening, dear colleagues. Please have one minute of your attention to Bill 5202. Ukraine has 40.5 million hectares of agricultural land and only 2.2 million hectares are formally allocated for irrigation. As early as 1990, we had 2.29 million hectares of irrigation, and to this day we have only 551 thousand hectares. With the aim of increasing the land area for hydrotechnical irrigation, reducing the cost of soil and drying land, minimizing the risks of stopping water and draining water during the vegetative season, minimizing the risk of land degradation, this is the purpose of Bill 5202, which introduces three basic positions. It is the creation of a legal framework for the creation and operation of water users' organisations, the transfer of KLA to the management function of parts of meliorate infrastructure, lower-level infrastructure, the creation of legal mechanisms to invest in existing meliorate infrastructure and the construction of new meliore infrastructure, both within the framework of the KLA and outside the framework. Dear colleagues! It was 2020 that proved to us where there is water, where there is life. And it is thanks to melioration and growth that we will be able to increase our crops, raise Ukraine to a new level of expertise and gain agricultural independence and improve it. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask you to take this bill as seriously as possible and to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u98	Thank you. The chairman of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Solski Mikola Tarasovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u99	Dear colleagues, what are we talking about? In 1991 there were 2.5 million acres [2.5 million ha] of irrigation land in Ukraine. As a result of the difficult decade after the beginning of this century, about 2,000 acres [500,000 ha] remained. During the 20 years, practically new irrigation lands have not been added to much of that 20 to 30,000 hectares. This had a number of reasons, one of them was the lack of a transparent market for land, because they primarily invest new investments in their own land. The next thing that matters is we have several irrigation systems in the country: Dniprovska, Danube-Dniestrovska and others. There are highways where pump stations can't be privatized in any way. The extreme pumping stations are clearly, in my view and in the view of the committee, available for disposal by pooling water users in order to make investments and better distribute more effective water around these extreme pumping stations. These pools of water users are created by the principle of a double quorum. This is the first quorum, depending on the number of land processed, the second quorum is one member, one vote. Why is that? So that there is not too much desire to take into account the opinion of the little ones, and the small ones have no desire to abuse the rights of others. The law was developed by three ministries, a committee, and a World Bank. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u100	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u101	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u102	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u103	Dear colleagues, let me speak a very simple language, understood by all of us who don't understand agrarian business. Each of us lived or lived in a house and once there were Jacks. While CHEK was in charge of the property, CHEK was not interested in improving this property, planting it green, and so forth. This was the design of an OSBB mechanism. And where this mechanism worked, where the owners of the apartments came together, and became the owner of the entire house, the situation in those homes improved considerably. The owners were interested in investing in the improvement of their building, its accompaniment territory, and so forth. Same here. The organization of water users, it will allow and encourage landowners, land users of land-based land-use changers to invest in infrastructure, to improve it, and not to depend on incomprehensible organizations whose interests do not always match the interests of landowners. Of course, there are many nuances in this law that need to be worked out before the second reading. There's a note, there's actually comments on how to make it impossible for the owners of large assignments, let's say, to have much more influence than the owners of small assignments. All these issues need to be resolved, but in general the law is very progressive, it needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u104	Black-Morted Artem Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I hear various discussions as soon as I come down from the rostrum. I want to assure everyone that this bill regulates the legal form of water users. If everyone's interested in the voting plan, as this is going to be, you could say, a non-profit cooperative is going to function, it's going to be one participant, there's one person, one vote that's considered to be the most important. If you're joining a water user association and this is where we're going to some pumping station, and it's going to this channel, the main thing is that you have 10 hectares and you're referring to this cooperative, or you have a thousand acres. The important thing is that you're going to do it as a function, 1 person is 1 vote, and that's the most important thing that's going to enable us to invest in the future so that we can then raise the melioration system not only throughout southern Ukraine, but even move a little further, because the climate is changing now. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill, which will allow us to invest more in expanding irrigation and irrigation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u106	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u107	Yvchenko, Fatherland. My colleagues, we have a really outdated irrigation system today, and I want to remind you that today we have about 1.5 billion cubic metres of water used in the field. And of course, the Herson area, it's the one that uses the most water. Kachov’s main channel is 1 billion cubes. And now for the structure of today's irrigation, which is in Ukraine. There are state-owned, intercommunal and interior buildings. The first two are funded from the state budget. The efficiency of funding you all see what's going on with these systems. The interiors were handed over by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, in 2003, directly to the rural and rural councils. And some of them even get rent. But for today, what's going on, colleagues? Investments must be made directly into the internal market. What should we do? Pass it on to the pools of water users. And here, colleagues, the idea is clear. And here's the problem with this law. And you see what's going on in the hall? Who wants to be named after specific names? And I know those names, I called them on the committee. The same thing is happening today in the hall, people don't want to vote under specific lobbyists. Colleagues, a pool of water users must act as a cooperative, one voice as an enterprise. And that will be true. And the second. If rural and rural councils today receive funds, we should anticipate compensators. And third, it's important. We have to ensure that the cadastre of things rights on these systems, on these melioration systems. It's not a pipe, it's a matter of rights. Then, when there's property, there'll be investment. "Paternality" will hold for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u108	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Is there a motive for insisting? Gerasimov. And let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u109	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I would like to say that "European solidarity", of course, supports the need for legislative regulation of the activities of hydro-technical land melioration operators. But with regard to this particular bill, unfortunately, he needs very substantial work to be done. There are so many moments. The previous speakers focused your attention on many of them, which I would like to stress. This bill currently does not regulate the rights of small-scale water users, and we can come to it if we take it in the way it is now that these rights are really going to be denied and going to raid more small-scale farms. On the contrary, we need to prevent monopolization and irrigation. So "European Solidarity" will be held in the vote for this bill in the first reading. But if all these things are corrected for second reading, of course we will support it. And finally. In recent days, much has been said about the Crimean Canal and the water in Crimea. I would like to point out once again that the water in Crimea can only go after the complete occupation and release of Crimea by Ukraine. It's a red line. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u110	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the Committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Law on the Organization of Water Users and the Promotion of Hydrotechnical Landmeling (Registration No. 5202). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:17:38]] For 221 The decision is not taken. I am voting for a motion to refer to a committee to prepare for a re-reading of the draft Water User Organization Act and to stimulate hydrotechnical land melification (registration No. 5202). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:18:16]] For 279 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the final question of our non-commissioned meeting, registration number 2164, but requests, leaders of the MP factions and groups, the head of the profile committee, please come to the rostrum and agree on a technical point. Dear colleagues! The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to improve individual provisions in connection with the conduct of a special trial (registration number 2164). The chairman of the Committee on the Law Protection of the Monastery, Denis Anatoliyovich, is invited to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, a moment of attention! Dear colleagues, a moment of attention, please! Arthur Volodymyrovich! A committee has just taken place. The committee, at the committee meeting, adopted an additional table that took into account the three revisions. The committee unanimously, I understand, supported these amendments. The faction leaders and I also talked about it. Now Dennis Anatoliyovich Monastirski will put each of these three rights for confirmation. We do. I mean, they, they didn't get the votes, they passed the committee. But to be able to sound it, because technically they're not handed out in the hall to everyone to hear it, to support it, to support it, no, but I hope they'll be supported, because otherwise this law won't work properly, we don't have time. Three motions for confirmation, after which we vote on the law as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] And you insist on it? Then let's do three confirmation checks. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. One minute of the speech is the vote, the second minute of the speech is the vote, the third minute of the speech is the vote. Sergey Volodymyrovich, can I see you for a moment while the national deputies meet? Dear colleagues, if I understand correctly, five minutes is a performance instead of a right. Now we have 3 confirmations, then we go to the vote. Is there no objection? Please don't go away. Denis Anatoliyovich, what's the first issue of confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u111	Colleagues, form a table of additional licenses. Here are 3 amendments that have been developed according to the decision of the committee that has just come – the Committee on Law Enforcement. The first amendment relates to making changes to article 297 prime. 1, where it is pointed out that a special trial is under way.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u112	I'm sorry to interrupt. Please read the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u113	I'll read it. It is noted that a special trial is carried out on the basis of the arrest of an investigating judge in criminal proceedings against a suspect who is hiding in a temporarily occupied territory — once, in an area recognized by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the aggressor State — two for the purpose of evading criminal responsibility, and three — and/or declared for international investigation. Appropriately, this same formulation is duplicated in all articles relating to the situation. In this case, this amendment refers to the amendment to Article 297 prm. 1. That's the one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u114	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. The amendment is valid for confirmation. We need 226 votes of support. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? Does everyone support this? I'm betting on the vote to confirm number one of the additional table just approved by the committee. You just heard from Dennis Anatolyovich of Monastery. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:27:39]] For 280 Decision taken. Amendment number 2 stands for confirmation, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u115	Dear colleagues, the same wording is duplicated in article 297. 4 The Criminal Procedural Code, where part one is presented in an editorial that the investigating judge refuses to satisfy the problem of conducting a special trial if the investigator does not prove that the suspect is hiding from the authorities of the investigation and the court in the temporarily occupied territory, in the territory of the State recognized by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the aggressor State, with a view to avoiding criminal liability and/or being declared for international investigation. And these words are also duplicated in part three, paragraph three, respectively. Please support, confirm this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u116	I'm betting on vote number two with an additional table that's just been approved by the confirmation committee. You've just heard the position of the committee. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:28:58]] For 275 Decision taken. Amendment number 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u117	Amendment number 3. The same wording refers to part three of article 323, where the first paragraph reads as follows: “Criminal prosecution of crimes listed in part two of article 297. 1 of this Code may be implemented in the absence of the accused (in absentia), except for a minor who is concealed from the authorities of the investigation to the court, in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, in the territory of a State recognised by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the aggressor State, with the aim of avoiding criminal liability for special judicial conduct and/or declared international search." This is the phrase that we're introducing and I'm asking you to confirm it as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u118	I'm betting on a vote to confirm number 3 from an additional table, which has just been prepared by the committee, the position of the committee you just heard. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:30:12]] For 278 Decision taken. Thank you. Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, five minutes instead of the right and we go to the vote. Please don't break up, maybe Sergey Volodymyrovich will finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u119	Thank you, Mr. Head, I'll try to be faster, I understand that everyone wants to go home already, but the question of special trial is a very important question that can apply to virtually every Ukrainian citizen, based on the list of articles that they now want to put forward a special trial. My position is more severe than my position in the Fatherland faction in general. I think a special trial is such a special legal tool, it's a microsurgery that should have a very, very limited application. I cannot allow it, I understand that the law enforcement authorities are eager to conduct an investigation without a suspect, accused person, to bring a case to trial without a suspect, accused person, yet desirable without his lawyer, so that only the judge and the prosecutor can hear the case together, get a conviction, and then we wonder, for some reason, what we have in this case is the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. And that's when we have to stay. By the way, my clear understanding is that this law really has to be applied only, I emphasize, only and only in Midan's affairs, namely against those persons who are illegally hiding in the territory of the Russian aggressor country and in the occupied territories, dot. In all other areas, we have civilized forms of communication, they're called all "international legal aid," and they're also claiming extradition from these territories, and that's what we need to use. If, I'm sorry, even after Yanukovich, we had a limited number of references to his extradition from Russia, what we're talking about on all the other issues. Once again, unfortunately, the law is formulated in such a way that a special trial involves article 191 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Every businessman in Ukraine knows what article 191 is. It's a dove against business, a doppelganger against business. And if a businessman is declared invalid, in the wrong way in an international search, it means that without him you can listen to the matter, without it you can consider it, without it you can solve the issue of his guilt or innocence. In doing so, the absence of an accused suspected of more active involvement of defenders is not balanced. In the way this law is, it does not exactly correspond to the existing practice of the European Court of Human Rights. So once again, dear colleagues, I understand that everyone wants to go home, everyone wants to push the green button faster. But it will definitely be a green button against the active practice of the European Court of Human Rights. I have in my hands the comments of the General Legal Office, which are marked on 14 sheets, red-seated observations, which are doubtful from the point of view of the constitutionality of this bill. I understand that there is already a desire to vote, I understand that the committee has met again, I understand that the committee has proposed an editorial that slightly improves the existing situation, but it does not take away a key story, a huge door for the removal of law enforcement organs, including in terms of large, small and medium-sized businesses. I don't want to be Cassandra, but I can predict that this law will be applied precisely not only to Midan's affairs, but it can be used against small and medium-sized businesses. I promised Mr. Head I'd finish earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-04-27-m2.u120	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code for the Improvement of Certain Provisions in connection with the Special Trial Investigation (Registration No. 2164). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:35:28]] For 258. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Thank you, Your Honor. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
