ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national deputies, distinguished presences, guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. I'm reminding you that once the registration is started, it's necessary to hold the sensor button, press the "Z" button and hold it until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to register? Ready? Did they put a thumb on the sensor button? Let's go then. Please register. [[10:05:56]] There are 109 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our fellow national deputies. Victor Vasilovich Bondar. Let's welcome the Future Group. [[Applause]] And Ludmila Anatolyevna Buymister, non-factional. [[Applause]] Welcome to our colleagues! Strong health, strength of spirit, and work for the benefit of Ukraine! Honourable National MPs, Prime Minister Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal and members of the Cabinet of Ministers are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council. Hello. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, “the hour of questions to the Government ” is held on Friday, at 10 a.m. At the Conciliation Council, a proposal was adopted by the deputy factions and groups for hearing on the "hour of questions to the Government" of information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of security for the fuel-energy complex and the housing-communal economy of Ukraine by energy resources during the heating season of 2021-2022. Ladies and gentlemen, the next order is proposed for the "hour of questions to the government". Well, as always, Ukraine's Energy Minister's report on a specific subject is up to 20 minutes. The answer to questions from MPs and groups is up to 20 minutes. Further replies from the Prime Minister and members of the government to questions from Ukrainian national deputies, up to 20 minutes (1 minutes to oral question and 2 minutes to answer it). There's no objection. Then let us move on to the subject. Dear National Deputies, Minister of Energy of Ukraine Herman Valeriyovich Galuchenko is invited to the podium. 20 minutes, please, Herman Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national deputies! This year's heating season is not just six months of low temperatures, we actually see right now that this is some field of energy war with Russia for a monopoly in Europe. Today, Russia’s energy crisis is being used to strengthen its geopolitical situation. And we see this in terms of the fact that today Russian gas dumps are 99 percent full, whereas in other European countries, such as Austria, 55 percent, the Netherlands, 30 percent. And the reality is that even by supplying gas through Ukraine's gas transport system, according to the state, for example, Russia currently supplies only 57 million cubic meters per day instead of 109, which they have to supply according to our agreement. And so all of this creates the prerequisites for really creating, and now there's a really energy crisis in Europe. And it's all happening here in the background that one of the key goals of security and the goal of the energy independence of our nation is to integrate into ENTSO-E, to synchronize our energy system with the European energy system. And we understand accordingly that all of these actions that are being done, they actually have one goal: to prevent this process. We now have positive previous decisions from ENTSO-E regarding Ukraine's great progress in preparing for synchronization, and we have very substantial political support for our key partners, both in the European Union and in the United States, as well as the European Commission, regarding the path Ukraine has chosen to synchronize with the European energy system. But in fact, we also see that almost every day new and new obstacles are being created, including the coal ban on imports into Ukraine by the Russian Federation. Literally yesterday, information appeared that it was coal imported from Kazakhstan, and so did artificial barriers to its import into Ukraine. So we realize that it's really a big challenge to go through this very winter. But we're absolutely confident that we're going to go through a calm time and get even stronger from this heating season. As we do, Ukraine specifically plans to ensure the passage of the IP. I have repeatedly said that the key stabilizing factor of this heating season will be the atomic generation. This is about maximizing the involvement of atomic blocks in the production of electricity. And in fact, in this projected balance, this year's load will be record for the atomic generation in the last five years. In fact, it's about plus 7 billion kilowatt-hours, which is 15 percent more than it was last year. And this increase in electricity production will reduce the need for coal by 3.6 million tons. Of course, appropriate measures are being taken to optimize the repair campaign, a well-reviewed and natural balance, to ensure such work and maximum involvement of atomic-generation blocks. And the state of affairs for today is 11 energy clouds. And so we have a plan for November to start including two more blocks, in early December, and maybe we'll move that term to November, another block. So what we're actually talking about is that we're going to have 14 blocks out of 15. What Is Important? Fuel availability is important. This is one of the themes of today’s discussion. The key point is that, of course, by creating such obstacles to supply or generally fuel supply to Ukraine, the Russian Federation certainly has the potential to affect fuel supply restrictions. Today, diversification is taking place, but there are still half the blocks that work for the Russian Federation's fuel. In this regard, we feel absolutely at peace because the state of the fuel reserve, which has already been purchased in advance, allows us to go absolutely quietly through the heating season. In particular, today there are 146 percent of the annual need for VVER-1000 blocks and 150 percent of the annual need for VVER-440 blocks. So what we're really talking about is that we're absolutely calm and securely provided with the necessary nuclear fuel. At the same time, for the heating season, we certainly plan to put pressure on the heat generation. In fact, we have to admit that in recent years this kind of generation has been undervalued, market prices have been held back by regulators, investments and coal production have been far from necessary. But the work of the heat generation is not limited to Ukrainian coals. For example, in October, over 1.3 million tons of coal came from the power plant -- that's about 85 percent of the total supply. Although it was also a closing matter, it consisted of some 260,000 tons, of which 36 came to the nation’s generation. In November it is planned to increase the supply of Ukrainian coal at a thermal power plant of about 1.5 million tons, while the proportion of coal imports will increase compared to October. In particular, through the diversification of sources of supply, Ukrainian companies have already entered into contracts to supply coal with Poland, the United States, and South Africa. Of course, we work in the same way to maximize coal production. Although in the last six years, really, without investment in the coal sector, this has fallen to 2. (dot) 3 times. In fact, what is important? What's important is that with regard to coal production costs, the calculations for the entire IP period, particularly November, March of the following year, they are virtually 8.4 million tons, with the supply of coal on the basis of its own production expected at 7.3, and imports at over 1.2 million tons. And it's also very important for the heating season that we're going to add a generation to natural gas. Together with Ukrenergo, Naftogaz, NCRECR, an appropriate mechanism has been developed for the integration of thermal power plants and thermal power plants using natural gas as a fuel. The required power will only be activated to balance the system and will be defined as a separate auxiliary service. This approach will, on the one hand, allow for a financial balance between gas companies and, on the other hand, avoid debt to NAC Naftogaza and have a minimal impact on market pricing. In particular, it's estimated that adding extra power to the gas will add 3.5 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity to the system. The following week, we expect Monday an appropriate decision by the NCRECR, which will allow us to continue to use such an auxiliary service for the generation of natural gas. Naftogaz, in turn, is willing to provide the necessary amount of such gas under special conditions for energy - generated companies. This will be done through appropriate contracts, which will include, inter alia, what I have said is that it is crucial to have a clear schedule of payments for the gas consumed to ensure that Naftogazu itself is liquidated. Of course, it is important to ensure that electricity prices are available. Today, in neighboring countries, such as Hungary, Slovakia, Romania, electricity prices. The price actually went up three times, including from two bracelets to about six pounds an hour. At the same time, in Ukraine, the corresponding index, depending on the trade zone, was 2.1-3.2 bracelets per kilowatt-hour. So it's actually lower than prices in Europe, on average, by 85-90 percent. At the same time, it is important that 70 percent of electricity is now being sold and purchased under long-term contracts in the bilateral market. And it actually makes it possible to provide lower prices. At the same time, consumer prices remain stable, such as the change in the PSO model, allowing the population tariff to be reduced to 1 in 44 for those who consume up to 250 kilowatts and leaving the tariff at 1 in 68 for the rest of the consumers. And I want to make a point, there are some experts now, there are some speculations about raising the population tariff there after the heating season. It doesn't really fit the reality. The electricity tariff for the population will remain constant throughout the heating season. Similarly, the issue of gas supply is important. The cost of gas for the population will remain stable throughout the heating season, and this is thus provided by Naftogaz. And it is also important that the government has banned the exclusion of fiscal and private consumers from providing electricity, natural gas, and heat by the end of the heating season. Today, gas reserves in landfills amount to more than 18 billion cubic meters, and in fact, this level of underground storage exceeds 13 percent of the average between 2011 and 2019. And in fact this level, it also confirms the willingness of Ukrainian gas shelters to go through the winter. What's important is that Naftogaz has sufficient financial resources to further import natural gas and to ensure the sustainable passage of the heating season, in particular, it gives us confidence that both volumes and compensatory mechanisms will be provided to protect the population, budget and social institutions. In particular, according to the government's decision in October and November, the gas price of the last-hop supplier is 7.96 per cube, proposed by Naftogaz, the price of natural gas for the needs of religious organizations will be 16,554 per thousand cubic metres of VAT. And what's important here is, of course, I want to highlight the Memorandum, which really provided a stable price for gas and, for its part, ensured that the corresponding gas resource was available. In particular, so far a large number of contracts have been made with the Naftogaz budgetary institutions, and this process is ongoing, and we are really confident that we will provide the required volume of gas and the corresponding price for our consumers. The really important question, which is also one of the key to a stable heating season, is the technical state, the technical state of the generation. In fact, appropriate tests of the servitude are carried out on a regular basis. By the start of the heating season, a number of measures had been taken, and appropriate regulations had been prepared to address any violations that had been found during such tests. And, in principle, today, there's this kind of working communication with generations about what they're doing to eliminate the relevant violations and minimize the state of emergency, according to the energy cloud crash. This is very important because, actually, even with the resources, the appropriate fuel supply, the emergency stops, they have a significant impact on the state of the energy system. Appropriately, to have a more effective and effective mechanism to verify possible violations was the decision of the National Security Council, which required such checks to be carried out promptly and in accordance with the relevant involvement of the various authorities and agencies. In fact, all of this gives us confidence that we are ready completely for the heating season. The right decisions were all adopted by the government. And in fact, today it's about making these decisions, making decisions will be monitored and decisions will be made accordingly. In fact, the ministry has similarly prepared a number of draft laws that deal with various issues, such as the development of renewable energy sources, the strengthening of the state's institutional capacity in the energy sector that it will be. Part's already worked, part's going to be presented in the near future. And so it's as important for the heating season as it is for future things like energy efficiency. I would like to thank Parliament for having created an appropriate interfractional association that really supports these initiatives, which are in the field of energy efficiency, and which will allow us in the future to save the resources that will be needed to sustain the heating season. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u3	Are you finished, German Valeriovich? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to questions from a specific subject to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine from the MP factions and groups. Please sign up for the question. The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP Mealik Viktor Nichiporovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u4	Please give ass to Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u5	Please pass it on. Please, National Deputy Gus Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u6	Igor Gus, 19th constituency, Future. Mr. Minister, look, I'm right here in front of you. When you were in office, we talked to you about the 10th mine, and I remember it here a long time ago. We don't have our own coal right now, we have a lot of crises involved. And I invited Mr. Prime Minister to Volin. Thank you for coming, but he didn't come to Novovolinsk for the 10th mine. Is there a vision in the ministry of what to do with the only mine that is being built in the country today? It's the only one, there's 30 million tons of coal. We have a crisis, we have problems, it's the energy security of our country. I'd like the government and the ministry to give a vision: we build it, we build it, we build it, we close it, what's the state of it? From the point of view of the protection of our interests, it needs to be added, and 1.5 billion dollars have been added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u7	Thank you for asking. In fact, I totally agree with that when we import coal and pay high. In fact, the price of coal today is up to $300, especially when it comes to coal supplied by sea. So really, of course, it's important that we look at the possibilities for rapid, rapid increase in our own production. And if these possibilities are real and fast, and there's a possibility that you can actually invest money, get domestic coal, of course, it has to be, and it's a key priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u8	It's all right, isn't it? Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Zinkevich Jani Vadimovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u9	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u10	Mikhailo Leontijovich Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u11	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. Mr. Minister, I'm going to let you in on a little bit of a secret: if you don't prepare for the heating season of autumn-winter in the spring-flight, it's going to work out. And you're going to keep saying that someone's messing with you, but it's not us. If you don't invest in the coal industry, if you don't develop the domestic energy plant, that's not going to work. And when you say you're ready to join the European Society, and at the same time, you're not going to get any power from Russia and Belarus. That's why I have a question. If you don't stand up for the figures needed for domestic energy, isn't that what you do to keep Ukraine from joining the European energy industry, along with President Zelenski, who signs such laws on the import of electricity from Belarus and Russia?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u12	Thank you for asking. In fact, no laws are signed by President Zelensky regarding imports. And the issue of import and export is the mandate of the National Regulatory Commission (NCREKP). But the question is, I'm going to tell you that no kilowatt imports have entered Ukraine today. So I just don't understand why we're talking about this right now. Another question is about the need for more money to be invested in the development of the country, of course, and I agree with it absolutely. And that's what we're talking about. We have to put the increase in our own production first.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u13	Thank you, Herman Valeriovich. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Sukhov Aleksandro Sergiyyovich, the Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u14	Good afternoon. Please pass the word to Oleg Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u15	Oleg Ivanovich Kulinich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u16	Thank you. Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Minister, you have a specific question. We are approached by a great many consumers, our electorate, who in their own time switched to electricity. But since January 1, this year, the electricity tariff has increased by more than 50 percent. People have moved on to the purpose of saving, and in fact this does not happen. I have repeatedly asked you this question, you assured me that it would be reviewed. So will there be a revised tariff or an enlarged corridor for this tax rate? And the second question. There are a lot of references to budgetary institutions that go to the last hope provider. Does the Ministry monitor the number of applications, how much is already connected to the Naftogaz budget institutions? Because, according to our information, this percentage is very low, about 25 percent in the area. Please give specific answers to these two questions and what the Ministry will do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u17	Thank you. In fact, I have the official information that Naftogaz just gave me -- I'll start with your second question -- that the state of the art was 03.11, which is, the day before yesterday, they made 1 thousand and 75 contracts for the supply of gas from the Naftogaz Trading T.O. As for the provider of the "last hope," indeed, there was a question when, in fact, they went to the PON. That's why the government has decided not to see the price increase accordingly when it comes to the supplier of the "last hope", and it has been decided that those who have reached the supplier of the "last hope" from October to December during this period are not the price for them. So there's not going to be a price that is, as usual, for the last-hop provider, but it stays at 7.96. And in terms of electricity, it's actually the question that the total tariff is reduced to one bracelet at 44, so the question is whether there's a possibility for electricity to determine a separate tax price. This needs to be done separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u18	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Fedienek Alexander Pavlovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u19	Please pass the word to Kostuhu Anatolia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u20	Please, Anatoly Kostuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u21	Good day again, Minister! I'd love to. Here I am, here. I'd like to talk to you and ask you. Now, you've repeatedly said what's the daily coal supply plan at the thermal power plant, every month. What was the reason, and what companies were sabotaging this work in the summer? Because that's the main direction, and then the cheapest, I'd say, energy. Who is at the very least responsible for the lack of both imports and coal in warehouses? And the next question is, I'd like to talk to you. There's an interfractional merger in the Council called Energy-Effective Ukraine, and we're doing a purposeful job of making people pay much less money in the future, and of people using electricity, and in general energy, more rationally. What is being done in the ministry, and what are your future plans?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u22	Thank you. In fact, look at the first question. In fact, the market situation in May, June, July of this year, in principle, killed the ability of the heat generation to produce and sell at all. Because, if you remember, the price fell to 20 kilowatts within an hour, even less than the cost of the atomic generation. So right over here, you know, this is the chain that led to what, really, for the heat generation, it was uncomfortable to produce the energy of kilowatts in coal because they were going to do it in damage. In fact, a number of measures have been taken, including by the Ministry, a huge number of meetings to be taken by the NCREKP, to adopt appropriate decisions that have enabled the market to stabilize. As soon as the market stabilized, the economy for businesses came to an early start. With regard to Dergenerge efficiencies. Well, it's a very important subject indeed. And by the way, thank you for this union. It's a really key topic that, by the way, sounds on all international sites. I just got back from an energy meeting with Glasgow. And there was a similar discussion of energy efficiency. It's actually the key. Because, in fact, we see how much we can save fuel use and the proper use of other resources. So, of course, we did. We already have a new head, Dergenergo, there's a suitable fund that does the same thing. So it's actually going to be one of the key and priority directions that's going to start soon, to be implemented at the scale of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u23	Thank you. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u24	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please pass the word to my colleague, Skork Mikolaj.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u25	Please, Mikola Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u26	Thank you. Mikola Skorik, faction of the Opposition Platform for Life. Mr. Minister, I have a question for you, and perhaps for the entire Cabinet of Ministers, because not only is it your competence, I mean the price of gas for industrial enterprises, but more specifically for the Odessa Airport. Today, this business is not working. A few weeks ago, people came under the walls of the Supreme Council, demanding that the issue of the direct contractual relationship between Naftogaz and the Odessa Portal Plant be really resolved. It depends on the Cabinet of Ministers. People demand a clear answer when the question is resolved when the business is running. Because it is a matter of the food security of our nation. It's a question of a few thousand jobs. It's a question of coming to the budgets of all levels. This is a very important question. This is the pearl of our industry. Requesting specific deadlines when this matter is resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. In fact, we're actually seeing that those enterprises that use gas as a raw material for manufacturing, really, at today's prices have some problems with the economy of production. This question has actually been raised, and we're working on it in the government as far as possible, what are the possible ways or mechanisms to solve this issue for enterprises that use gas as a raw material. [[B in m in s a l in]] If you don't mind, I'll contact you later with specifics.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u28	Dear German Valeriovich, and if you please, I'll contact you. After all, we have a schedule, a timing, and we have one minute for questions and two minutes for answers. I would very much like your answers to be so open that the MPs don't need to contact you offline, so that's why there's a parliamentary rostrum. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Yatzenk Anton Volodymyrovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u29	Your Honor, I have a question for you that concerns the whole country right now is the rise, the possible rise in gas transit prices. You know, the slips are raised 3-4 times, five times even, and that's why it's just an explosion, and the government doesn't do anything about it, unfortunately. And what cooperation with the NCREPR on this issue is there today to prevent people from paying and budget institutions from paying too much money? And the second question is that before the Prime Minister of Ukraine. We know that for a year the so-called Cashiers Act has been in operation, which has been going through FOP constants and so on. But the question is that this Law 5224 was falsified, and the law that obliged all the brothers to do so was. The Council did not vote, and after the vote it appeared very resonant. So, please, what are you going to do now to set up a dialogue with entrepreneurs and to clear this shameful law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. In fact, when the slips began to be published on the sites corresponding to, as it were, tariff applications, there were indeed figures that would increase today’s existing tariffs. And it caused such a big, really, media-related story. But the real question is that these applications they're making are in most cases not based on figures, from the point of view of investment programs, from the point of view of actual tariff costs. So here we're actually talking about cooperation with the NCREKP, we're working very closely with them on this issue. And we are absolutely confident that when such applications are considered by the NCREKP, it will be completely objective to consider these figures and to increase the tariff, as was actually stated in the publication of such data, will definitely not happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u31	Thank you. And the final question today, final to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine from the National MP Ruššišin Jaroslav Ivanovich, is the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u32	Please give Vasilchenko Galin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u33	Please, Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u34	Galina Vasilchenko, “Justice. ” Ladies and gentlemen, please tell me the first question that is of interest to the electorate: Are you vaccinated? And I have a similar question for Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Dennis, could you say by analogy: Are you vaccinated, or are you showing your example of how important this is? And the second part of my question is about energy efficiency in the community. What measures are being taken in the 22nd year to help Ukraine's state budget with energy efficiency measures? And since more and more decentralization powers have been placed on communities in recent years, they are very and very lacking in resources. I made a budget proposal to increase PDF to 65 percent. And the committee took it into account and gave the government the authority to consider the matter. That's why we're after the government right now. Tell me, please, what is the perspective that really will be easier for the communities?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. First question. A very short answer: I was vaccinated, and I was vaccinated with one of the first. So actually, you know, it's a question that has no other answer, and that's what we really need to do, and that all citizens have to understand that. The second is about energy efficiency. It's actually what I've already pointed out, it's a very important direction, because we see a huge perspective in it. Actually, we're working in two directions today. The first is the Energy Efficiency Fund, which has an additional budget for the following year. And this is the Dergenerge efficiencies that other programs do, it's about "warm loans" and so on. Next year we plan together, we work together on this topic. It's not just the Ministry's theme, it's the Ministry of the Communities, it's the Ministry of Infrastructure. We work together to start a big program next year. And before that, we're going to do a couple of pilot-sized projects about the energy efficiency of large buildings, show how effective this can be in the use of electricity and how fast we can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u36	Thank you, German Valeriovich. Please take your place. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to questions on a specific subject. Excuse me, we're just going to ask questions to the Prime Minister and to the members of the government from the National Deputies. Members of the government are asked to sign up for questions. The word is given to National Deputy Sowsun Inni Romanovni, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u37	The question is asked by the National MP Roman Soha.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u38	Please, Roman Socha.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u39	Good afternoon! Roman Soha, 75th District, Zaporozhye. I have a question for the Secretary of State. Please, Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm asking you to put the materials on the screen.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u40	Please put the materials on the screen.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u41	A question about the situation that took place on November 3rd in Zaporozhye. At the antivaccination rally, the police brutally beat people, beating them up so that one person was brought back to life for 15 minutes. The last time this happened in the city, it was not the authorities, it was the viewers. So I'm addressing the Minister, and I respect you very much, and I'm asking you to investigate, punish and release the guilty. People should not be afraid to express their opinions. I personally want to urge all Ukrainians to take the vaccine because it will save your life someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u42	Good afternoon! The designated person has already been removed from duty, a service investigation has been initiated, and a decision will be taken as a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u43	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kovalchuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u44	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Maxim Perbynis.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u45	Maxim Perbinis, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u46	Good afternoon, colleagues! Would you like to hear from the Prime Minister the answer to Mrs. Vasilchenko's question, if he was vaccinated when, and what vaccine was he vaccinated with? That's the first half of the question. And the second half of the question to the government. Why do we not yet have regulated and restricted access to courts and judicial administrations for people who have not been vaccinated and have no PLR test? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. Of course, I was vaccinated, and I was vaccinated in June as part of the vaccination of the labour force, along with a team of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I have internal and external cod certifications -- two doses of Pfizer Chamber. I call on everyone. My family is all vaccinated with various vaccines, because they're all, these vaccines that are in Ukraine, they're reliable, they're all safe. And I always urge everyone to be vaccinated: both national MPs, and all citizens and residents of Ukraine. About the second part of your question. I will now also ask the Minister of Health to complete it. In fact, there is an order from the Ministry of Health that obliges a certain category of workers to be vaccinated under an epidemic in Ukraine in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. The Ministry is also currently working on another list of categories of workers who must be vaccinated. Regarding the admission of vaccinated persons to separate premises. If there's an observation by some government agency, of course we'll check these things, we'll check them out. In "red" zones, admission to public institutions should take place only with two doses or with one dose and a COVID test running at 72 hours. Victor Kirilovich, please fill in if I forget anything. I told you everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u48	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Proscetku Eduardo Petrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u49	Edward Proschtuk, 85th constituency, Attitude. I have a question for the Minister of Health. On another occasion, I raise the question that there are no payments on Prikarpata to medical personnel in the mountain regions. I have a lot of references from medical institutions and medical personnel, and I'm talking about the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers to implement "The conditions of paying for the work of persons working in mountain areas." This failure applies directly to our medical personnel, since tariff rates and employee salaries are expected to rise by 25 percent. On my repeated written and oral appeal, I receive only a template receipt that these supplements can be made from local budgets. Victor Kirilovich, you probably don't understand that this is about four thousand doctors of Carnations -- that's about 20 percent of all medical personnel in our area. So, please tell me, when will the medical community in the mountains receive the proper funding provided by Ukrainian legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. Today, the Ministry of Health is leading a systematic policy of increasing salaries for health workers. The 2022 budget has provided an unprecedented increase in the salaries of health workers, which will be set at the level: the Nurse's salary is 13,000 500, and the Doctor's salary is 20,000. Also in the medical guarantees program, we place all the coefficients provided for today’s legislation and provide for both the provision of health care in mountain areas and in rural areas. I think that the next budget that will be adopted in this room will fully provide for all payments and payments to health workers and will be worth the pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u51	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u53	As far as oxygen stations and cadaver hospitals are concerned, first of all, I would like to thank the deputies of all factions, all those who voted yesterday for a bill to provide oxygen to hospitals, and I would like to thank the speaker for his operational signature. Now I have a question: Why doesn't Greensky sign this bill? Each signing hour costs 30 lives, and every 12 hours the non-signature costs about 360 lives, and it's terrible math. So, Mr. Zelensky, please sign the oxygen station bill immediately. And the second. To the minister of health, in Santa Claus, we have a critical emergency yesterday with an oxygen - requiring hospital emergency, which is a critical situation. The police who were contacted by the medics found it completely ineffective that more than that, doctors in various regions of Ukraine have a debt to be paid for their work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. I'll start with the second question, about the situation in the Mikolai district. Today, my deputy is going to the Mikolai district to look at the situation in a particular hospital, and another situation will look at the availability of medical care for patients with coronary disease. To provide. Answering the first question. In order to meet the needs of a network of health care institutions that are included in the list of executives to provide assistance to patients with coronary disease, the government of Ukraine has already allocated 4 grants totalling 2 billion,700 million dollars since October 2020. This allowed for the installation of 160 central oxygen systems, more than 130 autonomous oxygen stations, and over 250 cryogenic gasifiers. The last subsidy of 395 million dollars was given by the government at the end of September to buy new oxygen stations and cryogenic gasifiers. The Ministry of Health is constantly in control of the state of oxygen supply in each region. At the request of the district authorities, we are working quickly on the issue of the allocation of funds from the special fund. So, recently, again, we've allocated an additional 107 million to the government to buy oxygen stations for the Hersons, Sums, Chercas, Odessa, Donetsk regions. The changes adopted yesterday by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the State Budget Act will allow us to purchase oxygen stations for 130 hospitals, as alternative sources of oxygen supply, and these stations will be installed in hospitals called the second wave, so that everyone who gets to the hospital gets oxygen. But what I'd like to say is, a vaccine man.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u55	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich. But before I give you my word, I'll ask the Council to make sure that the minute goes straight, as stipulated in the Rules. Please, Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the European Solidarity political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u56	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Please pass the word to Irina Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u57	Irina Fries, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u58	Thank you. I have a question for the government next. According to information coming from the regions, communities are now unable to conclude appropriate energy supply contracts. We also know that two thirds of TEC are not working today. So what measures does the government take to ensure that our citizens have the energy they need, especially to ensure that they are not shut down?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u59	Your Honor, I don't know what kind of energy you're talking about. If this is about gas or heat energy, then all NAC contracts with Naftogaz are made as prescribed in a memorandum with local governments. As of today, more than half of the 8,000 certified procedures in ProZorro have been completed and a sufficient number of contracts have already been concluded. In addition, both gas and heat are continuously supplied, the government has made appropriate decisions on the inability to cut off gas supplies and not to supply gas to the heat utility, to those budgetary and municipal institutions that have their own boilers. So the gas supply is continuous and it can't be stopped. Warm security for today lies in the area of responsibility for local self - government. In fact, more than 97 percent of the communities where it is necessary have started a heating season where temperature ratios, especially in the southern areas, still allow not to include individual consumers, where local self-government authorities make these decisions, and they are based at the local level. With regard to electricity, today the minister of energy from the rostrum has also reported on the stable functioning of the Ukrainian energy system for today, the completion of the three block repair program of nuclear power stations in this month. And what we're actually talking about is that the energy supply of all kinds of Ukrainian citizens is going to take place uninterruptedly this heating season. I'll also ask the Minister of Energy to fill in more specific facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u60	Thank you. In fact, really, what we're talking about is that we're absolutely confident that the shutdown is not going to happen and we're going to go through this heating season peacefully. And the question is, what we see, by doing so, is there are clear plans, based on which types of fuel, how we're going to provide a stable heat generation, respectively, for the atomic generation. And there won't be any screws or shut-offs at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u61	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u62	Inni Sussoon, please give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u63	Another Romanovna Sosun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u64	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Question to Prime Minister Two. Mr. Prime Minister, the state of affairs for today's TES is 506,000 tons of coal. Yesterday, our supplies amounted to 528,000 tons. So we're going to have a reduction of 4 percent per day. If such a reduction continues, we will have enough coal for 22 days. Please tell me, how do you plan to cover up this shortage? Because now both Russia and Kazakhstan are refusing coal to Ukraine. And any information that you're going to be transferring to gas, unfortunately too large, is not economically justified. I really want to hear the numbers on how much it's going to cost. And I also want to confirm whether there was a mandate for the government to develop a graph for the power cuts in the country. And a separate request to the Prime Minister to take personal control of the implementation of yesterday's oxygen station bill. Because previous experience shows that this question is very slow.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u65	There were no orders from the LNB to develop any of the fission circuits, as you said, of course, there were no, there were no. First. The other one. Regarding oxygen stations, the minister of health gave a clear answer. We've already sent $400 million to buy oxygen stations. In addition, over 100 million more have been channeled literally these weeks, this and last week, this is the first wave hospital. Now there's extra money. First, by the end of the year, we're going to have 800 million more in the special fund, plus yesterday's bill -- that's even more money. With this money, it is possible to buy emergency stations for a second wave of hospitals, which, of course, must be done. But today they don't affect the supply of oxygen in hospitals where people who have got COVID are being treated. This is also very important information, and I ask her to take it very carefully. Regarding the first part of your question -- coal supply, I'll have the Minister of Energy supplement it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u66	Thank you for asking. In fact, what we've already pointed out is that we're planning to use gas to produce electricity, it's really a very important and detailed issue, because we can't just let the level of debt and incalculation in the system itself just go up. And that's why what I've already pointed out is that we've developed a concept of doing special auxiliary services, and all of this was done with the heat generation itself, so that they can come up with an opportunity to realize their electricity produced on gas, with revenue. We expect the right decision on Monday, the right decision of the National Regulatory Commission, the regulator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u67	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stepi Sergija Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u68	Good afternoon. Please pass the word to Igor Vasilyev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u69	Igor Vasiliev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u70	Vasilyev Igor, Sumi, Sumi district Questions to Mr. Galuchenko, Minister of Energy. We're all happy to hear that, in fact, the population is provided with appropriate tariffs on gas supply and heat, but a lot of, quite a lot of complaints go to the quality of supply, the quality of these services. In my area right now, this is Sumigas, and there are lines that are contiguous unless there are 50, 100 people standing in line and they can't figure out how these payments are accounted for, whether they're properly accounted for, or late, they can't make gas contracts. Accordingly, as authorities, we are obliged to do our utmost to provide quality services to monopolies. Whether tests are planned to be carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u71	Thank you for asking. In fact, if there are specific cases and examples that you call, when there is no quality service provided by the respective suppliers, there is an opportunity to look at the relevant structure, and then checks will be carried out, and they will be shown the appropriate prescriptions that they have to carry out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u72	Do you mind if I fill in? Mr. Head, may I complete the answer to this question?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u73	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u74	Of course, we work with the Antimonopoly Committee on such specific cases. Of course, we're working on it, and I've already said today, first: NAC Naftogaz and the government have decided that if a person falls for the last hope provider, during these two months, the price of PON, the so-called "last hope provider," will be 7.96 in NAK Naftogazu. So this is the same price as ordinary NAC users in Naftogazu. And that allows people to be able to calmly, despite. I don't know how you say, if there are queues or abuses, wait, make a deal and switch to normal consumption. This is also very important information, because these cases have now increased, and the government is actually taking steps to prevent the things you're talking about today. In addition, we understand that Naftogaz is also doing everything possible in terms of the annual tariff of 7.96, from the point of view of the thermal utility tariff of 7.42 and from the budgetary point of view of schools, gardens, religious organizations and churches, hospitals, they all receive gas of 13 million 80 copies without VAT and without transportation. These are also important elements that ensure the stability of gas supply and heating of this heating period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u75	Thank you. One more minute, Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u77	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u78	I have a question for the Minister of Economy of Ukraine. Before yesterday, you headed the Coordinating Council on Promoting Small Business with the President of Ukraine. Entrepreneurs believe that the non-registration of a draft law worked and agreed by this board is a discreditation of all the work that seems to have been done with small businesses. The specific question is, is there going to be a bill registered for the abolition of total fiscalization since January 1nd, 22nd?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u79	Thank you for asking. In fact, the Coordinating Board on Small Business and Business Persons was created by the O.P. to set up a dialogue. And really, the bill that entrepreneurs have been working on over the last nine months, it doesn't predict a change in the fiscal situation since January 1. It foresees some nuances in the detection of risky areas of activity and so forth. So, yes, this bill, I think with a lot of credibility, one of the members of this working group, which is a national MP, will be registered.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. Let us thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today is given to you. Let's move on to their consideration. But let's do it before we get to the point. Dear colleagues, please, the people's deputies remain. Only members of the government are coming. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. There's an offer. There's this proposal today, as we have sometimes done, to cancel the break from 12 to 12:30 and "Rizzna" for what to do in plenary mode until 12:30. Then go to the MP's questions. And then close the plenary session. Do you agree? We need to vote for this decision. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Out of procedure, please, Nestor Ivanovich. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u81	Dear Mr. Head, we don't mind if you don't mind taking the break, but we ask you to leave. After the questions are over, don't deprive the deputies of the opportunity to speak at the Miscellaneous. We ask and make such an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u82	Okay. Then, look, I'm just going to put these proposals in order. And it's going to be 226. First offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] You know perfectly well that ad hoc can be abandoned once. So please, let's make the first proposal, then the second. As most will, so will be. All right, colleagues? Then, with your permission, the first sentence is to cancel the break from 12 to 12:30 and "Variable" in order to work in plenary mode by 12:30, then to proceed to parliamentary inquiries and then close the plenary session. Dear colleagues, I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Please vote. [[11:08:45]] For 228 Decision taken. The second offer will not be accepted. Thank you, Your Honor. Now let's move on to the agenda. The first question of order. Oh, excuse me, there's been a statement from two MPs with a replacement for the performance. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u83	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, unfortunately, when the Energy Minister from this rostrum spoke, he did not answer the question of the head of the Trust Group, Oleg Kulinić, who made it clear that 25 percent of all government institutions, kindergartens, schools, hospitals for heating, because the price of gas today is unknown and contracts are being cut. Why is one of the chieftains of Naftogazu Ukraine today who has been released that Ukrainian gas costs 1 bracelet and sells 35 dollars to government agencies? And they didn't start the heat in many cities today, just 25 percent, and it went on until November 15th. People should, children should learn in the cold today. Second, 600,000 people moved from gas to electricity today. Why did the price for these people without help amount to 90 copies - it was 1st of December 68? I'd like to ask the Minister of Energy again, why is there five days left in coal storage? Who will be responsible for the energy crisis today? Why is it $300 worth of coal when Ukrainian coal can be mined on our land, and it will cost ten times less, giving jobs, giving wages, and feeding its miners, not foreigners? Why did no one today answer for the fact that miners need 2.5 billion dollars practically? The miner’s Day did not pay his salary, and for New Year’s, he would not pay his salary. Who Will Answer? Please consider Minister Dennis Monastery of the Ministry of Internal Affairs: 175 articles of the Criminal Code must be answered by every director of the mine who does not pay the salary. Now it's about hospitals and COVID. Look here. This is done in the city of Staribalski Lugansk district. People die without food, without water, in the cold, in hunger, without medicine. There's no toilet right in the room. Who will be responsible for this? And there's no oxygen. Please do an immediate inspection in the Luhansk area of hospitals and allow today to give an answer to why the Governor of Lugansk is not released and is not punished.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u84	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to move on to the first question. This is a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Certain Issues of Activities of the National Bank of Ukraine (registration number 5850-President). Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified manner. This decision requires 150 votes. People's deputies please take their own. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:13:28]] For 205 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the statement of the author of this decree, the national deputy of Ukraine, Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u85	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Your Honorable People's Deputies! On October 19, 2021, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a decision on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Acts of Ukraine on Certain Issues of the National Bank of Ukraine. The review of the bill and its adoption took place with the violation of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Rules of the Supreme Council, and therefore it cannot be considered to have been adopted in accordance with the law and is subject to repeal in the manner provided for in this Rules. The bill voted earlier will have a negative impact on the state of monetary policy, the coordination of the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine and the government, and thus on the development of Ukraine's economy in general. In particular, this could have a negative impact on the real-economy budget lending sector. Despite the importance of improving the activities of the NBA, the draft law contains a number of points that will make it more transparent and efficient in terms of the interests of society and the economy of the State. In a bill voted out the requirement for a member of the Nazbank Council to serve as a permanent resident in Ukraine. We already have a negative experience working on the boards of state companies of people who do not live in Ukraine all the time. The legislative document limits the provision of information by the National Bank of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the activities of the NBA and the banking system, as well as the drafting of the Budget Declaration and the State Budget Project. It is not clear what is causing such a restriction, for it will definitely make the situation worse. Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u86	Thank you, Mikhailovich. The report invites the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergey Vitaliyovich Calchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u87	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Regulatory Committee at its session considered a draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Certain Issues of Activities of the National Bank of Ukraine (the registration number of draft law 5850 and the registration number of draft regulation 5850-P), submitted by the National Deputies Timoshenko and Cimbaluk. The draft regulation proposes that Parliament's decision to adopt registration number 5850 in the second reading and the whole of the law be repealed because, as the authors point out in the explanatory note to the draft, a review of the bill, the approval of the bill was in violation of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Supreme Council Rules. The Committee noted that when the draft law was considered and voted on, the drafters did not specify specific violations of the Rules, but made comments on the content of the bill. So in summary, the regulatory committee adopted the conclusion of draft regulation No. 5850-P and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it should be decided by a vote on its acceptance or rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u88	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Yes. If others don't insist, I'll just give you my word. Which one of us will it be? Coltunovich. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, 2 minutes. If no one else insists, we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! When we made our proposals for a second reading of these draft laws in due course, there were a few dozen of my proposals for these bills. Why were these draft laws unacceptable to us? Because they're real. There were several of them, banking laws, they actually implemented and integrated the external administration into the domestic national banking system. For example, regarding the management of the National Bank. Council members suggested that they would be foreigners. Unacceptable norm? Unacceptable, of course. Or on another issue -- what the previous speaker said -- about the norms that apply to the agreement of macro-predictions and so on. Well, there were absolutely strange things that, frankly, were surprising, especially changes to the budget code. One more point: responsibility, responsibility of members of the Board of the National Bank and the Head of the National Bank. And we also had these proposals because the autonomy that exists today in the form of the National Bank, it leads to total irresponsibility. No one was responsible for the liquidation of 109 banks, 109 banks being eliminated. It's the money of the lenders and the depositors of the banks. One. No one was responsible for the devaluation of the national monetary unit of between 8 and 26 dollars, which is today. Therefore, it is not right to make the National Bank unpunished and permissive. And the last. We all realize that this is not an initiative of the MPs, and this is an initiative of the external financial institutions that want to control and deepen their influence in the financial banking system. I propose to support this draft regulation as one that will make it impossible to consider further the law, its signing by the Head of the Supreme Council and the President, because the bill voted is contrary to national interests. Once again, our faction will support this draft decree. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u90	Thank you. And Jurchisin, after that, let's go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, in fact, the set of changes proposed is absolutely necessary and balanced. And we've managed to significantly improve this bill for the second reading, in particular, we've found the optimal form of everything in common, how the National Bank can purchase international legal services to have an effective mechanism to fight the so-called "Colossian Group" and to try to bring the previous owners of PrivateBank back through international jurisdictions. Therefore, it is clearly necessary not to support this decision, to fail it, and to enable the National Bank to exercise its powers effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the second reading and the whole draft Act on Amendments to Certain Acts of Ukraine on Certain Issues of Activities of the National Bank of Ukraine (registration number 5850). Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[11:21:33]] For-53 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why? You've reported. Please, let's do it for a reason. Wait, what's your motive? You had a motive for that. You can only do the procedure now. Please. Not from the procedure? It's both motive and procedure. Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, remember, we voted before yesterday on the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Functioning of the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education (draft 6197). And we agreed that after the committee's consideration, I would use my 131st right to legally renovate some of the provisions of this bill. So, with your permission, I'd like to ask you to support these two changes. Dear colleagues, on November 3, 2021, I was approached by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Education, Science and Innovation, proposing to eliminate the inaccuracies and inconsistencies between the individual positions in the text adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 2, 2021, of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Functioning of the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education (Registration No. 6197). In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we need to eliminate some inaccuracies and inconsistencies in certain provisions of the law. According to part two of article 131 of the Rules, the issue of the elimination of disagreements or editorial irregularities in the adopted law is dealt with by the Supreme Council without its prior inclusion in the agenda of the High Council’s daily plenary meeting on the day of its introduction by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Suggestions for the settlement of disagreements are given. If you don't mind, I'll put this document to the vote. Please, who? Ivan Grigorovich, there is no discussion here. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute. Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u93	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I want to talk to the whole room. Colleagues, we are now dealing with a lot of urgent issues at a very fast pace. And indeed, when we consider this law on a very sensitive field in education, namely the National Agency for the Quality of Education, we had to make two clarifications. Ruslan Alexiyovich, the hall is always very cautious about these details, so I want to say thank you personally for supporting the committee head who organized the committee, and we've made these substantive, seemingly technical changes, but which make the procedure transparent and understandable. I'm asking the whole room to support it, because not many people in the hall, colleagues, to support it, because then, God forbid, it won't go away, and we're going to have an even bigger collapse. Please support everyone, my friends, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u94	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the vote is based on a detailed text in the right column of the comparative table given to you, in the first paragraph of section III, paragraph 3, "Towards and Transitional Positions". Please vote. [[11:25:21]] For 280 Decision taken. And another vote. The voting shall be based on the wording specified in the right column of the comparative table given to you, in the second paragraph of section III, paragraph 3, "Towards and Transitional Positions". Ready to vote? Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:25:54]] For 275 Dear colleagues, we have eliminated disagreements in the text of the adopted Change Law (6197). Now, one second! Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u95	Please, colleagues, we have removed the disagreement, so I would like to put to the vote a proposal for the immediate signature of the bill by the Head of the Supreme Council. I would like to propose to the Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Alexiyovich Stefanchuku, that a bill be signed immediately (registration number 6197) to amend certain laws of Ukraine regarding the functioning of the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education. Please vote. [[11:26:49]] For 274 Decision taken. Please show the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, now, one second. I immediately execute your commission and immediately sign this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u97	Scorch is procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u98	Dear Ruslan Alexiovich! People's MP Skorik, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." I can't say I'm such an experienced MP, I'm just a second cadence in the Supreme Council, but I can tell you that I honestly don't understand what we're doing. This is the second time we've voted for clarification. That's not what happened. Such anecdote about criminal times is known when it is said that there was no such thing in Yanukovich. It was neither in Paris nor in reason. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, you are such an experienced, serious man. And I ask you to stop correcting the bill in this way if the apparatus is not working if something is wrong in the room. This bill is to be re-voted according to procedure. And don't do what you're doing now, actually adopting new bills with your eyes closed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u99	Thank you. Since you mentioned my last name, I would like to ask again how perhaps in the experience of a less experienced MP to open 131 articles of the Rules and read the chairman's rights to make appropriate reconciliations to the bills adopted. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Let's move on to the next question. The next question is about depriving the Ukrainian national deputy of the Third-Party Galina Mikolayovna of the right to participate in the five plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, according to article 8 of the Ukrainian Law. Dear colleagues, it's not for discussion. I'm just going to read it, and we're going to vote. We're asking, we can't give anything anymore. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, must abide by the popular moral standards, always maintain their dignity, respect the honour and dignity of other national deputies, officials and officials and citizens, refrain from actions, statements and actions that compromise him, the electorate, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the state. According to part five of article 51 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, if a national deputy, a delegation to which offensive words have been addressed, considers that the conflict is not exhausted and that the understanding between the national deputies is not reached, they refer in writing to the committee to which the matter of the Rules under consideration is referred. In such cases, at the conclusion of a committee to which the matter of the Rules is known, the Supreme Council may decide, without discussion, to deprive a national MP of his right to participate in plenary meetings for five plenary sessions. This decision is being brought to the attention of voters through the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. On October 22, 2021, the Parliamentary Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the subject of the Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered at its meeting the statement of the People's Deputies, signed by the Co-Chair of the Parliamentary Group "For the Future" Taras Ivanovich Batenka, deputy head of the parliamentary faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of the All-Ustor Ivanovich Shufric, head of the Parliamentary Group "Trustrational Party" Oleg Ivanovich Kulinic, head of the political party "Golos" Honourable National Deputies, a word to announce the Committee's conclusion is given to the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Mikolayovich Eutuska. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u100	The Honourable Presidium, the Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, the Committee at its meeting on October 22, 2021, reviewed the application for the signatures of the leaders and members of the MPs of the All-Ukrainian Union, the Oppositional Platform for Life, the political party "The Voice", the political party "The Servant of the People", the political party "European Solidarity", the parliamentary group "For the Future" and "Trust", only eight signatures, on the question of the expression of the People's Chamber of the Third-Party, related to the premature death of the Ukrainian National MP, Polakov Anton Eduardovich, and its right to participate in the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until five plenary sessions. On the basis of article 51 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of the examination of the application, and taking into account the transcript of the plenary meeting on 8 October 2021 and the explanation of the Ukrainian People's Deputies, the Committee decided to adopt the opinion on the statement of representatives of the MPs (deputy groups) and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine without discussion a decision on the removal of the Ukrainian People's Deputies from Ukraine to participate in the five plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to bring such a decision to the recognition of the electorate through the Voice of Ukraine. Thank you, fellow Members, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u101	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare for the vote. In accordance with part five of article 51 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Rules, Deputies and Organizations of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to participate in five plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to bring such a decision to the vote through the Voice of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:34:04]] For 234 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. National Deputy of Ukraine, Galina Mikolayovna Trelyakov, please leave the Hall of Assembly of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the five plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I still have a statement from two factions, but I don't see what factions, I see two signatures. OPCW and Fatherland, right? Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions with a break and a replacement for the performance. Please, who's it going to be?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, Anton Polyakov, is not an enemy, but a person who considered it his duty to fight for truth and justice. And a man with a capital letter, for which principle was first, which was never broken by the system. He's a hero of our time who's been brutally murdered. Whoever's talking has been killed. And as colleagues, we need to get to the bottom of this. This is our duty to Anton Polyakov. You know, a lot has been said, a lot of dirt has been poured out. But I want to tell you with confidence that everything that's going on, and the version of some kind of drug, it's just unfounded and it doesn't have any right to life. I knew him very well, too well, and I will never believe it. And I'm asking all of you to create a temporary commission of inquiry that will allow us to fully understand this matter and to come to any conclusion in his death, murder. I very much ask David, because only the "Serial of the People" faction has not yet submitted a candidature to this TSC, I very much ask the entire Parliament to vote in favour of this TSC in the next plenary week. And I very much ask that justice and truth be established in this matter. And you know, here Mrs. Galina spoke of the enemies, so the enemy is herself and for the "Serial of the People" faction, and for all the people around her. And they shouldn't be in Parliament at all, because they're just, you know, a disgrace to this Parliament. And I think that the question should not stand in the suspension of five plenary sessions but in the removal of a mandate. And I think it should come from the President. Because if the President respects himself, there's no such people around him. But it's his choice. Thank you. I ask you to mention Anton Polakov for a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u103	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Let's move on. Next question is about the removal of Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrovny from the five plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, September 13, 2019, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, no. We're already on the subject. Please respond quickly! I'll give you my word after that. On September 13, 2019, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine discussed at its meeting the statement by the head of the political party 'Serve of the People's Party' of David Arahamaia on the offensive statements made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Irina Volodymyrovna Heraszczenko, at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 10, 2019. Honourable National Deputies, the statement of conclusion is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u104	The Honourable Presidium, honourable members of the people, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting on 12 September 2019 discussed the request of the faction of the political party "Serviary of the People" at the signing of the head of the parliamentary faction of the People's Deputy of the People's Republic of Ukraine, David Georgievicz, to consider the question of the statements of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrovna, at the evening plenary meeting of Parliament on 10 September 2019. On the basis of article 51 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the outcome of the review of this appeal, the Committee adopted the decision to adopt a decision on the question of compliance with the rules of ethics by Ukraine's national MP, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrovna, in connection with her statement at the evening plenary meeting of Parliament on 10 September 2019 and to recommend to Parliament without discussion a decision on the removal of Ukraine's national deputy Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrovna, to participate in the five plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to bring such a decision to the attention of the voters through the newspaper "Golos Ukraine". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u105	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also voting on this issue without discussion, and I ask you to take your seats. I'll give you my word after this is over. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part five of article 51 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, have put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Rules, Deputies of Ethics and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the removal of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Volodymyrovna Heraszczenko, to participate in the five plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to bring such a decision to the knowledge of the electorate through the Voice of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:42:11]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's see the factions. Please proceed with the procedure. Please, Vasil Ivanovich. Or who, Nestor Ivanovich? Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u106	Dear Chairman, there must be a limit to absurdity. I don’t think anyone will blame me for my affections for Peter Poshenko and his political power, but to demand a five - day suspension for what he said two years and two months ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u107	Look, we had a procedure, and you start with a motive. The motives are clear, everyone has voted. I understand there's no question of procedure. Dear colleagues, here's the next question. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've already entered it. Okay, after that question. Please have a statement from two factions -- a break with a replacement for the performance, Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u108	Thank you, dear colleagues, thank you to all the factions. Dear "servants," I feel like a noun. So many warm words from all the political factions and from the Ukrainian people I haven't heard since the day I was 50. But, you know, there are "servants," and there is the voice of the people. And I, a representative of the people, am the voice of the people, and I propose that the Servants come down closer to the people. When you hear everything they're saying right now, you'll realize that our political team is intelligent, diplomatic politicians who are very well-spoken, all that's going on in the session room. I want to remind you that, really, people believed two and a half years ago that there would be green wizards who would do it in the country, you know, amazingly strange. But here came the "green" freaks who broke everything that might actually be. And now I want to talk about ethics and the Rules, because that's a good reason. You know, in Ukraine today, 32,000 Ukraines are at war with men, protecting the country, 5,000 of them are female officers. And yesterday they were all slapped by the head of the majority faction David Arahami, who claimed that there could be no woman in the warring country, the head of the profile committee, the minister of defense. So Taran just because he has some masculine signs, it might be that, if you'll excuse me, he's led the army to, you know, a tsucwang that's simple. There is today a corruption scandal over the fact that soldiers eat worms that have stopped building dormitories that owe men and women 3.5 billion dollars to soldiers. He could be a minister, and a woman who'd give the heat in that ministry couldn't. You know, I'm the head of the faction, like David Arahami the head of the faction. We have a faction of discipline, we have a faction, if you'll excuse the faction's head, whether she's in power or opposition, she goes to work and doesn't walk. I demand from our political power to the regulatory committee an application to remove David of Arahama from five plenary sessions for a disgraceful slap on all the Ukrainians he has humiliated by his statement. And I hope that all the members of the IFF "Equal Opportunities," whatever faction they represent, today will be joined by shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. This is a draft law amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement on the features of the procurement negotiation procedure (project registration number 6273). He needs to be introduced first. require a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part two and third of article 101 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to define a bill (registration number 6273) to amend section X of the Act on Public Procurement, on the characteristics of the negotiation procedure, which has been purchased as a matter of urgency and halving the time-limits for the introduction of alternative bills and the conclusion of relevant committees on this matter. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:47:49]] For 255 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next question of the agenda. We agreed that two ratifications would be voted on without discussion. Yeah? Next up, your honor, we have two ratifications, so I'm going to take turns. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Arab Republic of Egypt on the Transfer of Convicted Persons (project No. 0126). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:48:41]] For 290 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following decision, was also agreed without discussion. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the International Road Connection of 17 December 1992 (project registration number 0060). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:49:28]] For 281 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u110	Motivator of the procedure. Engineer Andrew, please, about 5121. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then I'm going to make an offer to change the turn of the debate right now. Ah, Zavniwicz. Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I'd like your support, and I'd like you to raise your agenda today and now consider Bill 5121, a small law - amendments to the disciplinary statute. Please support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, the proposal came: Bill 5121, change the order of the day, and consider it now. Will there be a denial? Let's vote for that. Do you want to come out? One minute, Nestor Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u113	Thank you. Please give the floor to the distinguished National Deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u114	Please, Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I think we should put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u116	Beautiful. Thank you. It's a quick report. Dear colleagues, the suggestion is to change the order of the matter and now move on to question 5121. Please vote. [[11:51:45]] For 292 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the rostrum of the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee, Gerasiman Igor Leonidovich. Will anyone insist on their amendments? Vote. No one insists. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Disciplinary Statute, approved by the Ukrainian Act on the Criminal Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (registration number 5121). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:52:42]] For 285 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Then we have question 6263. It's for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to make a few effective votes here, so I'm proposing to include in the agenda of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the 16th session of the Conference of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, and the 3rd session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the United Nations General Assembly, the European Union, the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly, the Inter-Parliamentary Union, other regional and international organizations, governments and parliaments of foreign nations to support global climate change goals. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:54:10]] For 284 Decision taken. Give, God, health to the man who invented that name. Dear colleagues, it is still necessary to vote ad hoc on the consideration and adoption of the decision at this plenary session of the draft Decision on the referral of the United Nations Supreme Council to the Conference of the United Nations on Climate Change, which will include the holding of the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the 16th session of the Conference of the Parties, which is the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, and the 3rd session of the Conference of the Parties to the Treaty of Paris, the General Assembly of the United Nations, the European Union, the Council of Europe, the Parliaments, the European Parliament, the Inter-Parliamentary Union, other regional and international organizations, governments and parliaments of foreign countries, to support the global objectives of climate change (resistration 6263). This includes ad hoc voting on the consideration and decision-making of this meeting. Please vote. [[11:55:23]] For 288 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, that's not all. I would like to take a brief consideration of the short procedure for the consideration of the question - the draft Decision on the referral of the United Nations High Council for Climate Change to the Conference of the United Nations Conference on Climate Change, the 16th session of the Conference of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, the 3rd session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the General Assembly of the United Nations, the European Union, the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly, the European Parliament, the Inter-Parliamentary Union, other regional and international organizations, governments and parliaments of foreign countries, to support global climate change objectives (review No. 6263). Short-term procedure. Please vote. [[11:56:27]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? It is, isn't it? It's just that we have a very important question after that. Arthur Volodymyrovich, can we put this to a vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Are we talking? Arthur Volodymyrovich, you'll discuss it too, won't you? Okay. Dear colleagues, then we'll discuss it. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u117	Good afternoon, fellow MPs. On October 31, 2021, in Glasgow, Scotland, she began her work at the United Nations Conference on Climate Change, SOR-26, which will continue until November 12. The aim of the conference is to maintain global warming as close as possible to the goal of one-and-a-half degrees Celsius established by the 2015 Paris Agreement. The decisions taken at this conference will determine the climate policy of the world. I want to point out that today our country is among the first twenty countries in the world that are throwing greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. The Ukrainian government delegation is working at a conference, effectively providing a presentation of an updated national contribution to the Paris Agreement, aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 to 35 per cent compared to 1990 and achieving carbon neutrality no later than 2060. Ukraine has now become one of the 100 signatories to the first Great Agreement of the Glasgow Conference, under which more than 100 world leaders have agreed to reduce excessive logging by 2030. Forests are the main sinks of CO2 and the lungs of the planets. Recognizing the importance of responding effectively to threats or challenges to climate change and the need for adaptation to the effects of climate change, the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use has prepared a decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Conference on Climate Change, aimed at highlighting Ukraine’s irreversible transition to low-carbon development with a view to achieving sustainable development goals and providing some recommendations to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please support and vote in favour of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u118	The word is given to the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear Head, dear colleagues, there is a chance to save mankind. And I ask you to support this determination. Today, before the Supreme Council of Ukraine's consideration, it is proposed to the United Nations Climate Change Conference, which will include the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the 16th session of the Conference of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, and the 3rd session of the Conference of the Parties to the Treaty of Paris, the UN General Assembly, the EU, the Council of Europe, Parliamentary Assembly, the European Parliament, the Inter-Parliamentary Union, other regional and international organizations, governments and parliaments of foreign countries, to support global climate change objectives. The purpose of the draft decision is to draw the attention of our international partners to Ukraine's irreversible and gradual transition to low-carbon development with a view to achieving the objectives of sustainable development by 2030, the objectives of the Paris Agreement, namely to curb the rise of the average global temperature at a level of well below 2 degrees Fahrenheit and to make efforts to limit it to one-and-a-half degrees Fahrenheit, to declare support for global climate change goals. And this call reminds the world society of the ongoing armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, the temporary occupation of it by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, we call attention to the environmental disaster in these territories, and we urge the Russian Federation not to allow energy to be used as a political force for influence and blackmail on both Ukraine and all Europe. The Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management also supported this decision at its meeting, so I ask your honourable colleagues to support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, against this very important decision. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich, please, "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". As one proverb puts it: “The nature of the one guarding it is the mother; the nature of the one destroying it becomes a stepmother. Global climate change is one of the most pressing problems facing mankind. Over the next century, air temperature is projected to rise to a few degrees Fahrenheit, global warming will cause serious climate change, and entire ecosystems will be threatened with destruction. Today, the proposals for a draft decision, the authors rightly say, will allow us to confirm our State's active participation in global action to prevent climate change and to identify the main strategic orientations of the government to address the problems identified. The Trust MPs support the decision of the profile committee. We suggest that we accept this document as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u122	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy, Urban Anatoly Igorovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u123	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, dear fellows! Of course, the Party for the Future faction will support this decision on the basis and in general. But I would like to address you, Mr. Chairman. You're now at the foreclosure, I think, at a very normal and safe distance from each other, so I suggest you read something or talk into the microphone, take off the mask, because you can't be heard very well, at least at the end of the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u124	I'm going to ask you back to put on a mask because you have to follow the rules of the population's epidemiological well-being. Thank you. See, you heard me very well. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The word is given by Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Friday for the future in Ukrainian, it looks like this. An absolute decree, an appeal, rather than adopting, for example, a few bills or one that would really stimulate the rational use of natural resources. Actually, it's not about temperature and weather forecast, it's about economic and mathematical modelling and forecasting in the environmental management system. These are completely different elements. When you say carbon footprint, for carbon duty, which will come from Ukrainian producers when they export products to the markets of the European Union, it's all very important. But they have to have a very different one: (a) amendments to the Budget Code to increase the cost of financing conservation measures, which will eventually lead to a reduction in environmental emissions. One. The other one. Making changes to the Tax Code will stimulate the introduction of energy-efficient and energy-efficient technologies. Third. The Customs Code, where we have to vote for changes in the introduction of high-tech equipment. Four. Why are you silent about the implementation of the European Union’s environmental directives, which are binding? This is about the quality of drinking water. This is about emissions of pollution into the atmosphere and so on. These are the priorities for the work of the Supreme Council. If so, we could vote for a few hours today. However, we have an absolutely declarative decision about a petition that is more like a trend: Friday for the future. So in my opinion, we don't need to support such decisions or even take part in such cheap votes. On the other hand, support what is good.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u126	Grandmaster Mikola Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u127	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u128	Alexeiovich Honcharenko
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u129	Dear friends! Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. An extremely important appeal. Unfortunately, Ukraine is also affected by climate change today. And you and I can see it in the floods in the west of Ukraine, in the droughts in the south. In fact, this is a very big problem. But, my friends, I would like to point out that this is an extremely great opportunity for Ukraine to raise such a painful subject as North Stream-2. This is about the Russian Federation being the world's largest methane polluter, which has a greenhouse effect tens of times more than carbon dioxide, tens of times more. The Russian Federation is 20 percent of the world's methane emissions. And much of this is caused by emissions from the Russian gas pipeline system. So when European countries, including Germany, are working to launch the North Stream-2. This actually means that they are working to increase the harmful influence of the Russian Federation on the atmosphere of the planet Earth and on the destruction of the planet Earth. Russian gas, it's dirty not only because it's financed by killings all over the world, starting with, and for us that's the main thing, Ukraine, but also by other countries, Syria, and Central African Republic, and Georgia, and the whole world, but also because it's the gas that kills the planet. We have to ask this question. We have to pick it up at all the conferences. Unfortunately, I didn't hear about it from our President in Glasgow, it's very wrong. So, guys, let's pick it up, prove to the Europeans, for whom ecology today is question number one, that with decisions like North Stream-2, they're killing the planet, and they're looking with other eyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u130	Please, who? Sussun Inna Romanovna Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u131	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, of course, the fact that we pay attention to climate change is positive. Finally, if we do not pay attention, we will continue to live in debt with our own children. And I wish we could stop doing that. But let us not pretend that this decision will have a major impact on the situation of combating climate change in Ukraine. To say that this is our chance to save mankind is at least an exaggeration. In fact, what we need to do in this room is to adopt laws on combating industrial pollution, which have failed several times in this room, is to take other initiatives that would actually help combat climate change, including because it corresponds to our geopolitical interests in the context of fighting and countering the North Stream. So, colleagues, of course, need to vote now to make a political statement, but I very much hope that we will go back to reviewing bills that will actually reduce the impact of Ukraine on climate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u132	Thank you. Please, the national MP of the Nemira, then the Sheeplings, and then we will proceed to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will support this determination, but I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the folly of what we are doing now. There is now a vote in favour of an international conference that is already going on for a week and which is going on for the next week. What's the effect of turning to a conference like a train that's already gone? The other one. If colleagues have seen, not many people have seen the first version of this decision, and by the way, in the next one, there are paragraphs that have 100 or more words in one sentence. I am not jealous of translators who will translate, and I think that few, even if the iron will fight against climate change, will read the text of this layout to the end. I would like to draw attention to the authors of such regulations or references in order for them to be concise and specific if they want to achieve their goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u135	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, today is the International Day against the Exploitation of the Environment as a result of fighting. And this decree attracts a lot of attention. Colleagues, we don't have international diplomatic tools to fight similar formulations. Any reference is our instrumentation, it's an opportunity to influence the climate change that's taking place. And what's more, our government delegation, and directly the President of Ukraine, they've gone with a specific board of directors, and that's what they've been talking about. And most importantly, we've already signed very important declarations at this summit. But once again, the adoption of laws, specific, effective regulations, that's what we're going to do. So let's support the decision and use all the diplomatic tools that we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like the National Deputies to take their seats. I am voting on the draft Decision to refer the United Nations Supreme Council to the Conference of the United Nations Climate Change Conference, which will include the holding of the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the 16th session of the Conference of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, and the 3rd session of the Conference of the Parties to the Treaty of Paris, the General Assembly of the United Nations, the European Union, the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly, the European Parliament, the Inter-Parliamentary Union, other regional and international organizations, governments and parliaments of foreign nations, to support global climate change objectives (registration number of regulation 6263). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please vote. [[12:13:19]] For 271 Decision taken. Congratulations, fellows! Let's move on. The next bill is 5463, this is the second reading. Draft Law on the Implementation of Public Electronic Services from Registration and Declaration of Residence in Ukraine (second reading). I invite the head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations of Lubinz Dmitr Valeriyovich. Dear colleagues, will anyone insist on their amendments? Now, one second, one second, one second. Guys, look, that's the offer. We can then vote without discussion and immediately turn to the questions of the national MPs. Because there's no point in asking questions later, because we can't finish it at the right time. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to accept, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on the Implementation of Public Electronic Services from Registration and the Declaration of Residence in Ukraine (registration number 5463). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:15:14]] For 238. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Helen Constantine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u137	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We move on to our favorite Friday business, to reading and voting the requests of the national MPs. Thus, during the plenary week, 109 parliamentary requests were made to the President of Ukraine – 7 parliamentary requests, 5 to the Supreme Council, 47 to the Cabinet of Ministers, 45 to the heads of other public authorities, 45 to the directors of enterprises, institutions, organizations located in Ukraine, regardless of their subordination and forms of property – 5 from the past plenary weeks, 106 parliamentary requests remained unannounced, 215 parliamentary requests were only made to announce. So let's move on to making decisions about requests to the President of Ukraine. There is an open-ended vote in support of Alexander Dubinsky's request to the President of Ukraine for the raiding of the agricultural cooperative Novoseltsky of the Bilocerkow region of the Kyiv region. Are you ready to vote? Vote, Your Honor. [[12:17:03]] For-152. Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:17:27]] For 132 The decision is not taken. It is an open-ended vote in support of Anatoly Kostuch and Igor Krivosheev's request to the President of Ukraine for the question of nationalization of the status of the Deserved Academic Zacarpathian People's Choir. Please vote. [[12:18:04]] For 290 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a preliminary request to the President of Ukraine, please vote. [[12:18:29]] For 295 Decision taken. The factions can still be shown. Dear colleagues, support Alexia Kucherenk's request to the President of Ukraine for concealment by the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services in the field of information regarding the reason for the removal of Olga Babi as head of the NCREKP three days after she was elected head in August 2021. Please vote. [[12:19:19:19]] For-137 The decision is not taken. It's an open-ended roll-call vote. The factions? Please. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Roman Costenck's request to the President of Ukraine for the granting of State protection to ex-employees of the Chief Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, who were directly involved in the operation of the detention of mercenaries of the private military company Wagner. Please vote. [[12:20:05]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. By factions, please show me. An open-ended roll-call vote supports Alexi Movcan's request to the President of Ukraine to apply personal special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) to Zhivago Konstantin Valentinović. Please, let's vote, [[12:20:43]] For 112 The decision is not taken. There is an open-ended vote in support of Geo Leros' request to the President of Ukraine to set up a children's health camp called the $40 million Privatbank based on President Zelenski's real estate in England and Italy. Please vote. [[12:21:24]] For-21 The decision is not taken. There is an open-ended roll vote in support of Geo Leros' request to the President of Ukraine for a lecture by Volodymyr Zelensky at the Presidential University of Copyright, "How to use offshores and not pay taxes in Ukraine." Please vote. [[12:21:58]] For-21 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u138	These are all parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't get out of the procedure, because I still have questions to read. I'll give it to you later. So it's the questions of the national MPs. The Gennady of Watsaka to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Vinnické district management of the forest and hunting industry, the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine on the provision of information and documents on the purpose of liquidation of the State-owned plant "Mogilov-Podilski Forest Farm", and on the analysis of the performance of all forest holdings in the Winnitsk region, which provided the basis for the decision on the entrenching of state forestry enterprises. Mikoli Guzenka to the Romanian City Head of the Suma District for information on the activities of the Romanian City Council. July of the Head of the State Agency for Motorways of Ukraine on the issue of repairing the Sakhnovščina-Novohilovka-Oliyniki (O-212450) road in Kharkiv region. July Lightener to the head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine on the issue of the repair of the road to the village of Prvotravneve and the approach to the village of Tishenkokovka Krasnograd district of Kharkiv district. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the debt owed to a limited-liability society "CO Sunshine Bank" from October 7, 2014 to May 31, 2016, which provided housing and nutrition for 327 displaced persons. Anatolya Kostucha to the head of the Zacarpathian District State Administration for sports objects under the Big Building project. Anatolia Kostuha to the director of the separate department of the Burstin thermal power station of the stock company "DTEK Westenergo" regarding the consequences of the accident on the separate unit "Burstinska TEZ". Anatolia Kostucha to the head of the Zacarpathian district government regarding power cuts. Marina Bardinau to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on strengthening controls over quarantine measures. Groups of National Deputies (Arahamaia, Kornienka and others) to the Attorney-General on the conduct of an objective and impartial criminal investigation into the fact that the journalistic activities of Radio Liberty are being hampered. Groups of National Deputies (Arahamaia, Kornienka and others) to the head of the National Police of Ukraine regarding the conduct of an objective and impartial investigation into criminal conduct that impedes the journalistic activities of the Internet edition of Radio Freedom. Sergey Gryka to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine regarding the quantity of natural gas. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine regarding the application of legislation in the field of public procurement. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Office of the Attorney-General for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the National Police of Ukraine, the National Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre regarding the possible misuse of land. Igora Abramovich to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the use of measures to develop urban infrastructure, improve the quality of services from central water supply and water supply. Igora Abramovic, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Community and Territory Development of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine for the use of measures aimed at strengthening the financial capacity of the territorial communities. Igora Abramovich to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the use of measures aimed at the development of book publishing and the promotion of reading. Igora Abramovich to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Economy of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Customs Service on the use of measures aimed at preventing unfair competition and creating a competitive economic environment. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the introduction of national cancer control programmes Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Volin district management of the forest and hunting industry in connection with the entrenching of state forest holdings. Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Volin district government for the enforcement of legislation in the field of prevention and treatment of breast cancer. Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Volin District State Administration for receiving a grant to provide State support to persons with special educational needs. Vladimir Goekka to the Fund to Guarantee the Investments of Natural Persons, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the issue of non-execution of judgements by the National Bank of Ukraine and the Fund to Guarantee the Investments of Individuals in Case 500/2828/19. Bogdan Thorochti to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on specific issues concerning the activities of the regional service centres of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Boris Prijdjka to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to change the mechanism for the allocation of funds from the State Regional Development Fund, taking into account the population density rate of the areas. Nekludova has been appointed Secretary of the National Security Council of Ukraine for the introduction of sanctions against companies of the Roschen Conditioning Corporation for the financing of the budget of the aggressor State, the Russian Federation. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of state financial support for the development of the Conotapian City Electric Transport Park. Alexander Kacny to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Minister of Community Development and Territory of Ukraine on State Budget Subsidy for the Construction of Travel in the City of Vishnu Kyiv Region. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to combat poverty. Igora Krivosheev to the head of the Zacarpathian District Attorney’s Office on the state of pretrial investigation of criminal conduct. Alexander Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Suma District State Administration, the head of the Suma District Council on the use of measures aimed at financing and further functioning of sanatorium boarding schools. The Gennady of Wasaka to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine with regard to ensuring the protection of the rights of consumers of goods, energy services and utilities in order to obtain these goods and services of good quality in sufficient quantity at well-founded prices. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the verification of a citizen of the Russian Federation Vakulenka V.M. to be involved in actions that threaten Ukraine's national security. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the minister of culture and information policy of Ukraine regarding the granting of permission to move (movement) the monuments of Oleko Dundić and Michael Bogomolov in the city of Raven. The Gennady of Watzak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the use of appropriate effective and urgent measures to ensure the protection of consumer rights - budgetary institutions; the balancing of the work of public authorities for the immediate restoration and uninterrupted provision of gas, heat and electricity to budgetary institutions. Sergey Demchenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of medicines for liver cancer in Ukraine Sergey Demchenka to the Head of Public Administration for the provision of medicines for liver cancer Alexander Bakumov to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, on the formation and placement of the military unit A7287 (a separate territorial defence battalion). Antonini Slavicki and Alexander Tkachenka to the Executive Committee of the Kharkiv City Council on the improper provision of housing and utility services. Dmitry Lubinz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the measures used by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to carry out the heating season. Mr. Lubinz to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the critical situation with the circulation of COVID-19 in Ukraine. Igor Abramovich to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at ensuring the proper financing of the health sector in the 22nd year. The Nekludova, the Director-General of the Donetske Power Company, is responsible for the restoration of electricity services in the village of Berdjansk, Mariupol district of Donetsk Region. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the Government to set limits on gas for the Novvolinsktécommunergo KP. Igor Guza to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Ministry of Economics of Ukraine, on the need to remove bureaucratic barriers and speed up the transfer of House No. 24 on the street of Lutsky in Novovolinsk from the balance of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine to the balance of the Novovolinian Territorial Society. Kirilla Nesterenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the creation of a online clearing-up of international search and express services on the "Dia" public service portal. July of the Lighthouse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation and operation of the Centre for Administrative Services. Groups of National Deputies (Kissilevski, Mobcana and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the terms of the AT "Urzaliznica" tender for the purchase of 80 new suburban and regional electric trains. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the optimization of schools in Lviv. Igora Negulewski to the Private Shareholders Association, the private shareholding company of the Kiev Electric Renovation Plant, the private shareholding company of the Dnipropetrový thermal repair plant, regarding the provision of information. Igor Negulewski to the State Shareholder. "Bilgrade-Dniestrov Sea Trade Port", State Enterprise "Mariopolski Sea Trade Port", Private Stock Exchange Society "Ukrainian Danube Shipping", State Enterprise "Odes Sea Trade Port", State Enterprise "Cornomorsk Sea Trade Port", State Enterprise "Micholai Sea Trade Port" for information. Natalia Pippa to Lviv City Head for the financing of Lviv Parks. Sergio Vlasenka to the Rector of the National University of Kiev, Taras Shevchenk, President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Rector of the Odessa National University of Mečnikow for information. Anatolia Kostuha to the head of the Zacarpathian district government to ensure the full implementation of the 2021-2022 heating season. Anatolya Kostucha to the Head of Government of the Private Shareholders Association of the National Energy Company Ukrennergo for emergency assistance from the energy system of Slovakia. Roman Lozinski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the denunciation of the Cooperation Agreement between the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Russian Federation. Roman Lozinski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the response to the illegal actions of the National Deputy Illy Kiva. Maksim Zariski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service, for the restoration of the work of the Šepit-Izvoarele Suchevay pedestrian in the territory of the Visniki district of Cherniewice. Maxim Zariski to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine regarding the granting of the "Vishnevetské materna" status of international festivities. Maksim Zariski to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the granting of a village of the town type Berogomet, the village of Lukavci, Vachnovići, Majdan and Lipovana of the Bregomet Rural Community of the Visnik district of Cherniewice. Maksim Zarinski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting Head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine for the opening of the KNP Infectious Department of the "Putil Multi-Profession Hospital" in the village of the city-type Putil of the Visniki district of Chernivetsk. Maksim Zarinski to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the inclusion of the Andria Gusin Stadium in the village of Putila Visnicke District of Cherniewice in the list of those that can be reconstructed under the Grand Building Program in 2022. Groups of National Deputies (Losinski, Bondar and others) to the Director-General of the Donetsktéplocomunnergo District Municipal Enterprise for the protection of the rights of members of the Friends Society. Yulia Ovzitnikovov to the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine for the conduct of severe cuts has become scarce in the territory of John-Frankivsky and Zakarpatsk. Alexia Kovalova to the Attorney General's Office on the activation of pretrial investigation in criminal investigations into the DP "Heroi Research and Industry Enterprise". Alexia Kovalova to the State Audit Service of Ukraine on the extension of the time limits for the State financial control of the budget of the Bechter Rural Assembly of the Hersonian Region. Alexia Kovalova to the Herson District State Administration for the Revitalization of the Novzbury Foundation for Education, No. 1. Boris Prijdjka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, on the need to review the forest reform project of Montenegro. Julius Timoshenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of facilitating the limited liability of the Northern Industrial Host Basket (Suma) to make an agreement with HKK Naftogaz Trading to provide natural gas to ensure that the heating season is carried out in the central and northern quarters of Suma. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Office of the Attorney General regarding the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Ukrainian State Service on Food Safety and Consumer Protection for Violations of Permissible Sanitary Standards. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Kyiv City State Administration, on the use of effective measures to provide adequate housing and utility services. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Kyiv City Public Administration, to ensure that citizens are entitled to adequate living conditions. Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the improper provision of housing services. Marijana Bezugola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of violations by the subject of the construction of the requirements of urban legislation regarding the resonance project on the site of TC "Polarny" on the street of Kalniszewski Petar, 2 in the Obolonian district of Kiev. Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the repair of bridges in the Tachiv district of Zakarpat. Valery Sternichuk to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian Railway Association's Government for the transfer to the municipal property of the water supply system. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the use of effective measures to ensure the payment of the salaries of teaching staff in the city of Bilgorod-Dnistrovski. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the use of effective measures to provide diabetics with medical supplies and medical supplies. Helen Copanczuk to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to restore adequate funding for socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population living in the AES observation area. Alexander Sukhova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal mining of coal in the Matroska mine area of the city of Lysicánsk Lugansk Region and the gross violation of the current environmental legislation of Ukraine. Sergia Labazuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of conservation measures in the regions. Groups of National Deputies (Labazuka, Proschtuka, Batenka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the introduction of the position of "Fasician of Public (Public) Procurement" in general secondary education institutions. Helen of the Hooker to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to ensure the use of measures. Helen of the Curvature to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to ensure the use of measures. Alexander Dubinsky to the Attorney General on the use of immediate measures to respond to the raiding of the agricultural production cooperative Novoseltski, the involvement of guilty persons in criminal responsibility and the taking of the issue of fair investigation under personal control. Oleg Kolev to the head of the Odessa District Attorney's Office for the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of investors of an unbuilt house on Gołkowska Street, 5-7th city of Odessa. Alexander Bakumov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, Secretary of the Kharkiv City Council to resolve the issue of Military City Balancer No. 172 in Kharkiv. Tetjana Skripka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine about making changes to the Standard State Standards of general secondary education. Olga Saladuha to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine regarding the provision of clarifications on the possibility and procedure of increasing the spending rate on food for participants in physical and sporting activities at the expense of the district budget and the possibility of allowing expenditure from the district budget on the participation of Hersonian athletes in training assemblies of Ukrainian collective teams. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on expenses for the fellowship of students in vocational (professional) education, students in vocational higher education and higher education. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state registration of agricultural equipment. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of adequate financial support from the State budget of Ukraine for the non-productive sphere of the Ukrainian Association of the Blind and Ukrainian Society of the Deaf. Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problem of increasing the financial volume of natural gas for OSBB using roof gas boilers. Igora Krivosheev to the Attorney General, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the pre-trial investigation of illegal mining of the Sand-Branch mixture in the Zakarpatsky region. Michael Bondar to the Head of the National Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine for the conservation of the State Forest Farm. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the transfer from the Ministry of Education and Science to the balance sheet of the regional community of the city of Red City of the IDP No.11, which is on the street of Lvivska, 21. Michael Bondar to the Head of the Lviv District State Administration on the problems of securing a field-obstetric and obstetric site in the village of Kustin in the region of Lviv. Alexandre Sukhova to the Bilovod Regional Rural Community of the Starobyl Region of Lugansk Region, the Kremin City Territorial Society of the Sevierogonean Region of Lugansk Region, the Lysician City Military and Civil Administration of the Svejerodonet Region of Lugansk Region, the Pásnian City Civil and Military Administration of the Svejerodonet Region of Lugansk Region, the Lugansk District State Administration - the District Military and Civil Administration, the Swatian Municipal Territorial Civil Society of the Swatian Region of Lugansk, the Starobel Municipal Civil Society of the Starobel Region of Lugansk Region, the Rubižan Regional Regional Civil Society of the Sverodonetsk Region of Lugansk, the Sevijereunecian Municipal Civil Service Service Service Department of the National Labour Administration. Alexander Kunicko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the verification of the performance and integrity of the duties and for the determination of the appropriateness of the position of Chief of Police in the Kharkiv district of the Police Department of the S.S.A. Allony Olegna. Groups of National Deputies (Bondareva, Tsimbaluka and others) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the involvement of those responsible for the theft of state property in Ukraine's energy market. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure the steady flow of the heating season. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of tariffs for the distribution (delivery) of gas for the population. Igor Goose to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development, Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the need for the removal of certain provisions from Bill 6062, which will reduce the sources of income of the OMS and lead to significant losses in local budgets. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the provision of financing for construction of transport infrastructure. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Head of Government of the Pension Bank of Ukraine for the inclusion of a pension as a non-working pensioner living in an area of radioactive pollution. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the clarification of the registration of OSBB (community of joint owners of apartment buildings). The Kuzmini branch to the Attorney General, the Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, the Head of the State Inspectorate of Architecture and the City of Ukraine, the Head of the National Police of Ukraine for the execution of self-sustainment and the illegal capture of the municipal property of the Kyiv community. Dmitry Lubinz to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the critical situation of oxygen supply in Ukraine. Dmitry Lubinz to the Head of the Shareholders' Association of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine for preventing further increases in municipal services tariffs. Groups of National Deputies (Eutuska, Bondareva and others) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need for a legal response to possible fraudulent actions by the management of the company T.O.T. PLUS in the Rhine region. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the return of the first 3,000 kWh tax per month for consumers who use electricity to heat up a dwelling worth $0.90. 1kWT year. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the granting of the status of the National Museum of Ukraine to the Museum of History of Kiev. Groups of National Deputies (Pipi, Vasilchenko and Lozinski) to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the purchase of an angiograph for KNP "8th City Clinic of Lvova" in the framework of the National Project "Great Building". Artema Cnermoorova to the Ukrainian State Security Service for Transport on the provision of information. The Party of Steps to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to amend the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which regulate the student fellowship. Oksana Savchuk to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Acting Head of the State Service of Ukraine for the work on the protection of the rights of private shareholders of the Ivano-Frankov Armouring Company. July Light to Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine on the capital repair of the road from Krasnogradsky to the region of Kharkiv. Irina Heratchenko and Maria Ionova to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine on the issue of legal assessment of violations of Ukrainian legislation established during the October 31st, 2021 elections of the Ukrainian People's Deputy in the one-man election district No. 197. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionov to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Attorney General for Legal Assessment of the Obstacle to the work of District Electoral Commission No. 197. Irina Heratchenko and Maria Ionova to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine on the issue of legal assessment of the fact that the voters have been bribed by a candidate for the National Deputy of Ukraine, W.O. Vojcikhivski in election district 197. Irina Heratschenko and Maria Ionov to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the head of the Central Electoral Commission, the perpetrator of the duties of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation to provide a legal assessment of the violations of electoral law on October 20, 2021. Solomy Bobrowski to the Minister for Veterans of Ukraine regarding the granting of martial law status to First Deputy Secretary of RNBO Demchenko Ruslan Mihajlovich. Groups of National Deputies (Pushkinka, Grishchenko, etc.) A total of 6 deputies) to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Energy and Housing Services, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the National Commission on National Regulation in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services on the need for a solution to the situation surrounding the statement of the Shareholder of the Zitomirgaz Gas Distribution System (AT "Zitomirgaz") on the intention to increase the tariff for the distribution (transport) of natural gas. Bogdan Thorochti to the President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine on the activities of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. Bogdan Thorochti to the President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine on the activities of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Bogdan Thorochti to the Marine Professional Agrarian List about the activities of the Marine Professional Agrarian List. Bogdan Torochtiya to the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine on the activities of the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine. Alexia Ustenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the state of criminal conduct related to the possible falsification of the village of Petropavlovska Borschagivka. Anatolia Kostuha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of a list of state grants and credit programmes to co-finance the territorial implementation. multi-housing buildings. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Road Service in Zaporozhye Region, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine for Capital Repair of the Road Area of Territorial Value T-08-05 (Wessele Melitopol). Paul Melnik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Road Service in Zaporozhye Region, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine for the Capital Repair of the Road Area of Territorial Value T-08-21 (Panfillivka - Primorsk). These are all the MPs' questions for today. I promised Irina Heratchenko, please, from the procedure. Please turn on Mrs. Irina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I want to refer to the presidency, to the session room, which is empty, and I wish there were no Ukrainian national deputies now, and I wanted to make it sound hot. During the polls, the national deputy Kamelchuk stood up and raised his hand in an obscene gesture and, unfortunately, did not respond. It seems to me that we have an important discussion today about compliance with the Rules. I'd like to address the Bureau with a request to severely cut off any uterus in the hall that, unfortunately, is primarily used by the "Serial of the People" faction and obscene gestures. We don't support yesterday's story or today's. And if there's any conclusions, you're going to do, please, to the servants of the people. Well, and of course, it's important that the opposition don't turn off the microphones, then the opposition won't react to this story differently. But Deputy Kamelchuk raised his hand in an obscene gesture.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-05-m0.u140	Well, what am I supposed to do? We all saw gestures yesterday, we hear that. Yeah. And we know who gave the word to that national MP who was demonstrating gestures yesterday. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. Thank you.
