ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Good morning, members of the media! Please prepare to register. I remind you, registration takes place by clicking on the green "for" button, the first one on the left. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:01:30.]] There are 208 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, today is our colleague Valery Sergiyovich Gnatenka's birthday. Congratulations on your birthday! I want health, success, strength! [[Applause]] Let's get to work. An announcement was made for a break with a replacement for the faction and the MP group. Please, Vadim Zinovich Rabinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u2	Dear Ukraine, today we woke up in another country. You will continue to be killed by tariffs. You're going to have to take your place for unpaid payments for it. Billions will be stolen on what is called "the great construction". We'll still be without vaccines, without medicine, without a future. But in order to accomplish all of this, Zelensky’s authorities need to shut their mouths to those who are telling people the truth, especially the media, the television channels. Tonight, and the devils always work at night, for the first time in the history of existence. [[B in m in s a l in]] Damn it! For the first time, the existence of an independent Ukraine was to shut down the three leading information channels immediately. And the day before that, she provoked the Telegram Channel group. More to the point, the authorities, who grew up with real thieves, ordered the killing of independent journalists. To this end, a special group of so - called patriots was formed tonight. And Sternenk's killer was specifically released a few days ago to lead this group. All of this means one thing – Zelensky has challenged the people of Ukraine, he has challenged the European future of Ukraine, because fascism is not the future and not the European choice. And when books are banned and burned, channels are closed, and journalists are killed, that's true fascism. And we see that this Fascism of Zelensky came out on our street today. Many dictators felt that by stifling their freedom of speech, they would rule forever. In their heads, they've already drawn a second, third and fourth term, seeing their destroyed rating and growing support for Ukraine of our political party, today you've hit the heart of democracy -- freedom of speech. There is a democratic and independent Ukraine at risk. In the near future, we are conducting an extraordinary gathering of the party that will determine our next steps. Remember, you will not shut your mouth to our party or to the millions of our voters. Remember, you will not arrest us with murder, banning channels, and terror. We're initiating a procedure for the impeachment of President Zelensky, who has abused the electorate and the country. Today, fascism in our country has become green. But as our grandparents stopped and vanquished fascism, we, their descendants, will do the same and win. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Fascism will not pass and you will all die because you are the devil, the fascist devil. "Get up, the country is huge!"
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u3	There was a statement about a break with a replacement for two factions. Mezenceva Maria Sergiyevna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u4	Good morning, dear Ukrainians! The Parliamentary Assembly is an international European consultative body established in 1959. Ukraine joined him in 1995. 47 countries work under the same dome as we're here with you today. There are different views, different political powers, but they agree on joint decisions, just as we should, not forgetting our main national interests. So the first January session, which took place in hybrid format, has a lot of victories for the Ukrainian delegation. The first and the main are our unity, which we have confirmed in the fields of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We have become not only one of the most numerous representations, but also one of the most active delegations, which is marked statistically, the second most active. The Russian delegation was the only one who had been charged with the charge. We've actually reached two urgent debates on Russia. And really the Parliamentary Assembly is not and will never be a "hot bath" for these delegates. We have a new resolution, a new document to charge the Russian Federation's powers, but each line lists all violations of the occupied Ukrainian Crimea, Donbas and human rights in the country itself, as well as the armed aggressions that have taken place in other member countries -- Georgia and Moldova. We need to be careful about the numbers because we have more than a third of the delegates, from little San Marino to our colleagues, for example, from Estonia. We have also come to understand about the new initiative of the Crimea Platform, which is an initiative at the level of both Kabmin and the President of Ukraine, and our Parliament at the IFF. Of course, we have not become a delegation of one subject, I owe it to all colleagues who have raised important questions: human rights, ethics and timeliness of vaccination at COVID-19, as well as the closure of non-profit organizations in different member states. The issue of non-compliance with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, to which the Ukrainian delegation has applied, all of which have been adopted, is also a major contribution. We've considered eight resolutions, voted in favour of them, and I want to mark many colleagues who have participated in the active writing of rights and speeches. I also want to point out that we have three important human resources assignments. This is Eugenia Kravczuk, who became the head’s deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u5	Thank you. Please sign up for the nominations and announcements made by deputies, according to article 25 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have up to 30 minutes to do so. Marina Olegna Bardina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u6	Good morning, Ukraine! Today I want to talk to you about the situation that happens in Poltava in the post-election period, because there is still no fighting between the different political forces. And the worst thing that's going on is putting pressure on the deputies of the various councils they've chosen. Those of you who observe the situation in Poltava have seen MPs being taken out in the morning so that they do not vote in the district councils. Today, pressure is exerted on one of the deputies of the Kyiv District Council, and this pressure is that people are not allowed to sign documents that they are authorized to sign. I also want to say that the different coalitions in the Poltava City Council are actually forming. And since the budget is adopted, but the governing bodies are not elected, I want to go to the political parties in this room and ask you to think again about whether the Ukrainian parties are ready to work in Ukraine with the pro-Russian parties. To think about it and not to give Poltava away, because first of all, it's about national security. Today, the mayor of the city was a man who in 15 denied the actions of the so-called LNR, DNR, and did not recognize Russian aggression. Please consider the Ukrainian forces of Parliament, whether you need such a coalition in the Poltavian City Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u7	Nikita Marina Victorian.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Mikiti Poturayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u9	It was Mikita Ruslanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u10	'What is the price of lying!".. You remember that it was with these words that the Blackball series began, which has become the most famous show in human history today. So let us ask ourselves again today: What is the price of lying? From the people who died during the Chernobyl accident, people who died in Ukraine because they robbed the country for billions of years during all of these almost 30 years of independence, saying that we are such professionals, we are such big manufacturers, industrialists, and we have drawn every single single copy out of the country. What is the price of lying? It's a war, a war that, with slogans about the Slavonic union, came to the land of Crimea and started killing Crimean Tatars and Ukrainians, and then came to Donbas and killed and tortured people. What Is the Price of Truth? The truth has no price. Truth is all we have. Truth is peace. We came, promising the people of Ukraine to tell the truth. We have come, promising peace to the people of Ukraine. So we need the truth, we all need the truth. But the truth must be protected. The truth will not defend itself; it is necessary to fight for the truth. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u11	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u12	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, everyone is so attentive to the talks of each faction, the group, the full Chamber of Deputies gathered, the majority in full stock. What was funny when our colleague talked about the devils running around today, not in the districts, but running, looking for money and collecting money in businesses, in small, in medium-sized businesses? I listened attentively to the Conciliation Council when Vadim Zinovyovich said, "Hell is empty and all the devils are here--ad already empty, all the demons are here." Today, parents are afraid to speak for the people’s deputies or the elderly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u13	Please speak English.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u14	I'll explain why, because they're scaring us today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u15	Turn off the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u16	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u17	Let's not scream. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Sergey Volodymyrovich, your time is up. Sergey Volodymyrovich, can you not hear?Oh, my God! You're not alone here, time's up. Thank you. The next colleague is speaking. A colleague is speaking, please. You can continue the discussion outside the rostrum. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I would like to welcome everyone to the fact that the authorities have finally decided to stop watering the Kremlin's informational "line" propaganda from the information media resources of Ukraine. At the same time, I would like to hope to express the hope that this decision is legally proven and we will not get a "response" including from the Kremlin, which we cannot deal with. So I hope that all legal nuances have been taken into account in the adoption of the decision of the RNB and the introduction of the President's decree. But that makes it even more important what I want to say. Because with one hand in the fight against the Kremlin’s information attack, the authorities are trading our national interests with the same Kremlin at the same time. As Ukrainian atomic energy declines, Ukraine is actively involved in sponsoring the aggressor state, buying electricity from it, and the Belarusian nuclear power plant has only been able to become fully powerful through the supply of electricity to Ukraine. Energy independence from Russia was the gain of the government and the team in which I had the privilege of working between 2014 and 2019, and this achievement is now, unfortunately, being disrupted. And it destroys under cover, as if thinking about people, as if thinking about tariffs and lowering them. Last year you and I were able to stop the attempts of Colomaic soldiers, but this time the greedy oligarchs won. And I want none of the Ukrainian citizens to have any illusions about whose benefit this import of electricity from the Russian Federation is. And the caterers of this equipment are definitely not Ukrainian citizens, and this is an oligarchic call that will use this cheap electricity in its industrial enterprises. I also want to say that our authorities are betraying not only us Ukrainians but also our close and important strategic Lithuanian partners, who consider the Belarusian nuclear power plant a threat to their national security. And the authorities are destroying both our national security and international unity and Ukraine's support, and then they're going to ask Bayden why we're still not in NATO, and they're going to demand justice from the European Union about the supply of the vaccine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u19	Wack Hennaday Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u20	I give the word to Shah Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u21	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u22	Sergey Shahov, trust MP. First. You have to have culture and listen if you're politicians and you're sitting in this room, what other colleagues say, they're sitting in opposition, or they're in coalition -- it doesn't matter. Tell me, who was the last person in their districts? Well, you can help your parents. And you asked the neighbors, you asked the people who picked you in the districts, not the parties what people say? Today, members of parliament are intimidated by children in their homes. Raise your hand, which one of you has raised your tariffs? I'll answer that. NCREKP and Kabmin. We need to ask them what they're doing today, the people's deputies. Why in our country today the largest gas reservoirs, 32 billion cubes, and the population needs 8.5 billion cubes for those receiving subsidies today. Where did the gas cubes, which sold three times the cost to our foreign partners or to our population, or to a small, medium, large business? It's a trillion dollars' worth of money, trillions' worth, even though it was free to give gas to people without getting its gas at the top of our nationals under the Constitution. Why is NCRECR, the Kabin now buying electricity in Russia in Belarus, when we have a more powerful nuclear energy base? Today, everyone can laugh, and young people may not realize that in Soviet times, they paid 2 kips for electricity, cash matches, and a cube of gas, and there were no family disputes, and today, parents have gone beggars abroad, counting 14 billion dollars. Where did the money go? The Trust MP group requires an immediate audit of all the gas repositories and where the gas went. We demand an immediate investigation into why Ukrainian electricity was not prolonged or an extended January 1st bill. Why electricity is now being purchased abroad, in Belarus, and in Russia, why our energy market is not making any money today. We demand an immediate investigation into who is currently benefiting from subsidies. 73 billion dollars in debt to the population. 73 billion dollars! When will this debt be restructured? People say, "What are you, crazy people? Are you in English, "stupid?" You know, someone's eating pizza in restaurants, and someone's hungry, and they can't buy a pill and buy bread. So please pay attention to the ordinary people who chose us here. And we demand that, if there is no answer from Kabmin on Friday, even Kabmin be dispersed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u23	Goose Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u24	Good afternoon, dear friends! Igor Goose, MP for the Future, Volin. I would like to express my personal point of view on the actual decision, the revolutionary decision of the PNB on pro-Russian TV channels, which have worked for the Kremlin for years and served the fifth column in Ukraine. In 2018 it was decided in this Parliament to refer to the PNB for the President of the time and the PNB to take concrete measures, in fact, after the closure of the Kremlin’s Rupe in Ukraine. A few years later, unfortunately, the then president and the RNB did not use this tool. And I, not being an apologist of Zelensky, want to tell my constituents and Ukrainians, and the people present here, and the Ukrainian national deputies: I personally strongly support the decision of the MPO. I'm categorically in favour of the decision of the PNB. We begin to forget that there is a war in the country. We begin to forget that, in fact, Ukrainian soldiers die every day there, in Donbasa, protecting Ukraine. And, at the same time, every day for years, the Kremlin's rabbles rob the Ukrainians. And just because the authorities are trying to run these shuri-muras, these TV channels, and they are clearly undermining the foundations of our independence, they've been working in Ukraine for years. So I'm going to the President of Ukraine, Mr. Zelensky, and I'm going to the RNB, and I'm going to press this question, not go to negotiations, not go to reconciliation, not to try, you know, get out of this situation. Take a hard, principled position. And anyone who works in Ukraine in the media space, in the political space, should know that if you work for the Kremlin, you have the possibilities, the tools will be ruined. So I personally believe that the vast majority of Ukrainians clearly support this decision. It is right, it is in time. Moreover, I am deeply convinced that it is primarily supported by the tens of thousands today of Ukrainian defenders who are holding the border from the Russian invasion. No, the Kremlin in Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u25	Alexiyczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u26	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Alexander Alyxiychuk, 154th constituency, Equinox. I am amazed at the way the young MP spoke about the labels and the words that sound offensive to our colleagues in this room. We did yesterday. Our opponents laughed about imposing sanctions on the country that opened the embassy in the occupied Crimea. In the evening, laughter has changed into tears, as some have been hit by other sanctions that prevent our country from watering dirt. We need to understand, everyone has to understand in Ukraine, and in the world, the time has come when enough abuse of the country has come. Enough people, no matter what language they speak, face their heads enough! We need to work for the benefit of this country, not just destructive positions. So the president's position is very correct. We, the "Ministers of the People," support it and hope that these steps will eventually lead to peace in the country, and that people will stop bumping into each other because they talk nonsense on different channels, and on different channels they start telling how to love the country and who to be friends with. So let's support the president, support the ORC decision. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u27	Bragar Eugene Vadimovich. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u28	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. It'll go a little bit further. It was likely expected that the talk would be dedicated to the TV channels, but I would like to return to the events of yesterday. Yesterday a colleague of our political faction, head of the Economic Committee, claimed from the rostrum some things that might not be entirely true. And our position of faction on the signature collection for the resignation of Uruski Oleg Semenović is as follows. We're not going to resign as Vice Prime Minister today. There is no such position. We will discuss this clearly at the meeting. Over the last three years, we've had no space sector at all, no strategic project, it's just been approved recently, only since the creation of the appropriate Minstrategprom. We will support the President's position and the mission to launch a space orbit to the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's remote control Sic. I'd like to take a few facts. Minstrategprom, what a colleague was talking about yesterday, did not give the commission to conduct a competition with the relevant State Space Agency. This is the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers and the government. The government itself adopted the corresponding decision No. 290 of April 22, and the corresponding competition began on January 27, 2021. So I urge colleagues from all political parties before making any political decision, first of all, to hold consultations, to figure it out, and to make a judgmental decision. Because, really, the sector that we're talking about is in a critical state right now. And the space industry is not an exception, it is in decline, and it needs to be restored. We Ukrainians have always passed on to me in previous generations, always proud of the Ukrainian industry, the Ukrainian military industry, the space industry. Let's do everything we can to keep us proud of it. That's why I personally support Deputy Prime Minister of Uruguay, Oleg Semenovich, in this position. I think it's a person who can make the right transformations. And if we have to, we will collect more signatures to support it in the parliament walls. Thank you for your attention and for your constructive work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u29	Dirdin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u30	Good afternoon, distinguished voters! It's not about politics, it's about political battalions, it's about what happened yesterday in the city of Pervomaysk Mikolayivsk region, about the tragedy, about the tragedies of human lives that have taken place. I would like to inform you that three people were injured in this connection: one was broken in the head (trepanized the skull), the other was caught in the back, and the other was tried to burn the other. From this rostrum, I want to contact the Minister of Internal Affairs to take control of the matter and investigate it to find out what caused the events. And the other question is about the area's fire system. Because at the moment, the information I own didn't work. And this is a question for control and government authorities that allow and agree to enter into operation, and perhaps not yet in use. I believe that this tragedy could have been avoided if the authorities at work, when buildings were put into operation, took into account and decided that their mistakes could be worth people's lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u31	The trip of Dmitri Sergiyovich. Gunboat Arseniy Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u32	Good morning, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Today I would like to share with you from this rostrum the emotions that have accompanied me for the past 10 years is the situation with Igor Sikorsky's garden. Igor Sikorsky is the man who invented the helicopter. Igor Sikorsky is a man who knows all over the world and all over the world that Igor Sikorsky is a Ukrainian. The United States, their army has been flying for many years on Igor Sikorsky’s helicopters. Because it was Sikorsky in Kiev at the beginning of the 20th century who developed the first prototypes of helicopters and managed to blow them up in the United States a few decades later. In 2000, the Ministry of Defence gave up the family garden of Igor Sikorsky, located at Jaroslav’s Val, 15b to rent a questionable charity fund from one of our colleagues present in the hall today, with the obligation to reconstruct the garden. It's been years, and this fund has been doing everything not to be a museum reconstruction, but to destroy the garden and make another monster a building, another height. 10 years ago, as head of the community organization Kyiv Youth Movement, I initiated the Ministry of Defence to initiate a procedure to break this cable contract for 49 years. And the Ministry of Defense broke this treaty, and the state in the courts returned to the courtyard, and there is therefore a photo testimonial, in its own time, Sikorsky developed the first prototype of a helicopter that had not yet flown, but which would soon fly to America. But for the past five years, the Ministry of Defense has unfortunately done nothing to start the reconstruction of the garden of our fellow countryman, Igor Sikorsky, who has been honored and known throughout the world. Unfortunately, for the past five years, the Ministry of Defense and the state-owned Cosatian Enterprise, which is a habitat balancemaker, have done everything to keep the garden from being destroyed and destroyed. So, Your Honor, I'm taking the initiative and I'm asking you all to support us all to initiate a specific request to the Ministry of Defense today for the Ministry of Defence to begin the reconstruction of Sikorsky's garden. I'll tell you more today, the Sikorsky Corporation, whose capitalization is billions, and the United States, are willing to take on this project financially. So I hope that the Ministry of Defense will hear us and we will get a reconstruction of Sikorsky’s garden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u33	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, is invited to the floor. Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u34	Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction. You know, I have the first thought that came up during the listening, the faction, the first one that came out here, with the next question. Your country collapsed a long time ago in 91st, so the question is, what are you doing here, and what have you forgotten? More than that, as deputy to the interim commission of inquiry on attacks against public activists, I'll tell you about Sternka: you're not here as the Russian Federation, and you're not to determine who's to blame or who's not to blame. So I thank my colleague Roman Lozinski for his support, and for putting him on trial for Sergey Sternenko. That's two. And the third. You know, this faction that's here, this fifth column, they're long overdue for criminal responsibility. I'm asking the majority to submit to the room a bill under number 2612 on separate negotiations. And finally, to the President and most people, let's talk about who has official relations with Moscow, who negotiates for prisoners, who negotiate for the vaccine. So that there wouldn't be any "Satellite" here, including in the areas of particular areas of Donetsk and Luhansk, and it couldn't even be discussed at all. But despite welcoming the decision of yesterday's President and the RNBO, I would like to address the Energy Committee here today in support and assistance. Because I don't know how you drive around the cities that are near nuclear power stations. The equation falls into the zone of two, 30 kilometers, the Hmelnicka AES and the Plains AES, where there are actually thousands of references. In particular, there has been an appeal to you, your fellow national MPs, to the Cabinet, and to the President regarding the return of the electricity tariff. Moreover, according to article 17 of the Law on Electricity, the amount of the benefit is 30 percent and is now cancelled. The abolition of the tax rate for these people, for this category, can actually lead to extremely negative consequences. I'm not going to tell you enough that the population that lives in this 30-mile area of the Plain AES is actually about 130,000, Hmelnicki is 250. And knowing Kabmin's position that this tariff is not going to come back, I'd like to invite Kabmin members to the Plain AES to walk several times by the reactor without the robes. So let me remind you that in fact, all of these are actually larger populations that live near the AES and work there. So I have a request, I'm going to go to the profile committee, and I'm going to work with Kabmin to get this tariff back, or we're going to have a conflict and a problem in these four cities, that's a small amount to calm the population -- those who live near the AES. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u35	Susko Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u36	I give the word Mikiti Poturayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u37	It was Mikita Ruslanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I am convinced that we all understand our shared responsibility to Ukraine. The shared responsibility, in my view, is that we must ensure the democraticity of all the processes established by the Constitution and the legislation of Ukraine, to ensure equality of all people before the law, the rule of law. But are there systematic attempts to stir up social hatred, aimed at dividing society by ethnic signs, religious, political views, or are there such attempts as we might call democracy? Well, that's definitely not true. Democracy is, as we understand it, not a primitive communist definition as power of the majority. True modern democracy is an inclusive process, it's the ability to listen to different social, political and other groups, regardless of how we feel, how each of us treats, maybe the other, in general our ability to perceive others is democracy. And, of course, we can't allow, if we're building a modern Ukraine with the rule of law, to let it anywhere, but all the more so with the use of those tools that enable millions of people to influence their consciousness so that, using such tools, our society will be artificially fragmented. We can't let that happen. We won't let that happen. And I'm sure that's still going to happen. Democracy is only worthwhile when it knows how to protect itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u39	Showtime's up. Dear colleagues, another statement has been made for a break with a replacement for the performance. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u40	Anton Polyakov, MP Group for the Future, Montenegro. Dear colleagues, yesterday this high-ranking parliamentary rostrum gave a very nice speech by our Head, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov. He was very aware of the challenges we face, such as tariff policy, and we did not resolve the issue. I quote Dmitry Alexanderovich: "We must do everything, including at the legislative level, what will depend on us, in order to protect the least protected and vulnerable levels of our population." The second question was about industry, about improving conditions for job growth and, as a result, increasing income from the State of Taxation. You know, there's another nice phrase that I also want to quote: "In every committee, every national MP has those initiatives that can really help people. It's not a big business, but it's important to protect an ordinary Ukrainian. And I'm sure you and I can do that." Yes, Dmitri Alexanderovich, we can do it, and we have to do it. It is to be remembered that we are living in the parliamentary-presidential republic, that we can put a dot on these issues, in this lifelong game, in the political circle, when the government that was appointed by the President's Office, which was forced to appoint, this faction, the President's Office, which is in charge, is handing arrows at us. And Parliament, instead of putting a dot on last week, takes a pathetic decision, it's not even a decree, a declaration that doesn't solve all population and tariff issues. I quote what's in this resolution: "Look at the possibility, study the question, improve."--and so forth. What and how will the government react to this parliament after that? They don't give a shit. Yesterday the Prime Minister did not even appear at a meeting with the Head of the Supreme Council and authorized representatives of all factions and parties on tariff matters. And what are we going to do? Dear colleagues, we already have all the work we can vote on. I ask you publicly not to block the issuance of signed letters on the initiation of an extraordinary session on these issues. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'm handing this letter to you publicly now, so you don't say you're missing something, something's missing. So let's get together and figure this out: we're going to return all the previous tariffs, we're going to return all the benefits, and we're going to cancel this disgraceful fare for transporting gas, and we're going to pay the counters by consumers, not monopolies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u41	Anton Eduardoovich, unfortunately I'm not a mailman, I think you can register this. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u42	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u43	Then, please, just like that. So do I. Don't throw it away, please. Dear colleagues, there is a procedure, please. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is over, and the breaks are over. Let's get to work. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Economic Security Bureau (registration number 3959, 3959-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:46:49]] For 210 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine Vassilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhaylovna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, while the Law on the Bureau of Economic Security is awaiting the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine, its full implementation is impossible without amending the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. The draft law that we are considering with you today gives procedural powers to the Bureau of Economic Security as a pretrial investigation body, determines its relevance, and strengthens the exclusive rights of bureau detectives. In the draft law, we have laid down for the effective functioning of the Bureau as the only body against economic crime such foundations. We suggest limiting the possibility of investigating economic crimes by other law enforcement agencies, and this is our key proposal. We also propose that prosecutors be obliged to determine the criminality of crimes related to the authority of the office, solely according to the newly created body. In addition, we suggest that other law enforcement authorities transfer the material registered to the bureau no later than five days, and we also foresee certain features regarding the initiation of pretrial investigations into criminal offences that are under investigation by the bureau itself. We're not going to allow the elimination of the DFS and the tax police to be limited to changing the badges and simulating them. Ukraine's Bureau of Economic Security should start working in line with the high goal of restoring trust in business, as well as raising funds that do not go there due to abuse, economic crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u45	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Ionushas Sergey Kostinović, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u46	Dear Mr. Head, fellow national MPs, last week the Supreme Council passed the Law on the Bureau of Economic Security, which, including the new body, confers authority on the conduct of pretrial investigations into criminal offences committed at this time to the jurisdiction of the tax police, the National Police and others. Thus, with a view to bringing the requirements of existing legislation into line, there was a need to draft a bill that would allow the Ukrainian Bureau of Economic Security to properly exercise its powers of pretrial investigation of criminal offences. Yes, the bill complements the articles of the Code on Administrative Offences, which provides for administrative responsibility for the illegal use of designations and signs of belonging to the Ukrainian Bureau of Economic Security. The Criminal Code imposes liability for tax fraud on added value as a specific type of criminal offence that will be referred to the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Economic Security. In fact, there are pennies from colleagues, experts on the need to develop article 222 with the mark 2. We can do this during work, preparing it for second reading. In addition, changes are made to Ukraine’s Criminal Procedural Code, which determines the basic and additional consistency of the Bureau of Economic Security. The code excludes the subject of criminal conduct, such as the authority responsible for monitoring compliance with tax legislation, and the new subject, the Bureau of Economic Security, is introduced. Strengthened powers to carry out an operational unit of indiscretions and other changes are proposed to properly investigate criminal offences. I understand that some of the provisions of this bill have raised some comments, such as those of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs. So I call together, honourable colleagues, to support the bill of my 3959-1, to accept it as a basis and to work fruitfully for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u47	The National Deputy of Ukraine, deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Michael Galina Olegovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u48	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Law Protection at its meeting on September 16th, reviewed the draft Ukrainian law on registration number 3959 and the alternative project under number 3959 pr. 1. Both bills are an integral part of the measures taken to create a single state body responsible for combating economic crime, the Ukrainian Bureau of Economic Security. Thus, the basic bill number 3959 establishes the legislative basis for implementing the new law enforcement body of the Bureau of Economic Security of Ukraine as the body for pretrial investigation and for carrying out the tasks of analytical assessment of prevention, detection, termination, investigation and detection of economic criminal offences related to it. In order to achieve this goal, amendments to three Ukrainian codes, such as the Code of Administrative Offences, Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes, are proposed. Thus, the Ukrainian Economic Security Bureau is expected to perform not only pretrial investigations but also research. The alternative bill under registration number 3959-1, by its structure and conceptual position, has a similar purpose, as well as amendments to the three codes of Ukraine. In particular, the Criminal Code of Ukraine adds a new type of crime: fraud with added-value taxes as a particular type of criminal offence. There is also increased responsibility for tax evasion, the disclosure of a commercial secret. The list of officials is clarified and responsibility for failure to execute the ruling of the investigating judge, as well as the final decision of the European Court of Human Rights, is established. Taking into account the outcome of the legislative discussion, the committee decided at its meeting to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following the first reading of the Ukrainian bill on number 3959-1, to adopt the bill on the basis of number 3959.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u49	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Wasilenko Lesia Volodymyrna. Ustinova? Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! There are now two bills that will be put to the vote: 3959 and 3959-1. Both are technical bills to the law that we already voted last week to create the Bureau of Economic Security. What is the key difference between these bills and why I will urge you to vote in favour of the basic bill submitted by your colleagues, Mr. Getmance, Mrs. Vasilevsky-Smagluk. Because we were all very happy and proud that last week, when we voted for the Economic Security Bureau, we actually killed the ability of the BSS to investigate economic crimes. This is the opportunity that gave the business a nightmare. When the D.A. gave us the task of operating a counterintelligence unit from the economy to come and run a mask show at businesses. So in that law that was voted for by the baby, this opportunity was taken out. And we were all proud of the promise made by both the majority and the Voice party that the U.S.S.S. needs to take back the unsuspecting counterintelligence functions from the economy and take away the possibility of nightmare business. So now in the alternative bill of Mr. Ionushas with the defis 1 this possibility is being returned. Because it again allows the prosecutor to assign operational units to carry out operational follow-up activities. This will allow us to go back to economic crime. Colleagues, let's create a new body that will deal with the economy, not create another body that, apart from the BSC, will investigate economic crimes. So I ask you very much and I urge you to vote in favour of the basic bill, and yet I do not allow you to return the post of nightmares to the BPO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u51	Urban Anatoly Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Polakov Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u53	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u54	Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u55	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u56	Thank you, colleagues, for your word. Friends, I don't know what you're proud of, but we're once again creating some kind of organ that's going to spend billions of dollars on our budget, and that's because most Ukrainians are already living outside the poverty line. We don't know how this body is really going to work, but what you took last week, and what you're proposing now, is in general contrary to the principles on which this Bureau of Economic Security should have been established. Because in no way do we protect business from pressure, from the influence of this body. And we're going to be doing it again to the tax collector, to the fiscals. Again, this will lead to all these bureaucratic procedures or to pressure on the same business. And by the way, I want to tell those winners who said that we took something to the B.S.A., that's not true. In the new bill that we voted on, there are some things that apply to economic security. And again, we're going to be attacking the same rakes when the same crime is being considered by several state law enforcement agencies that are pouring billions of dollars out of our budget again. We didn't support it. We do not support this multitude of anticorruption bodies sitting around, sitting around their pants, and not even being able to plant and prove these crimes. And we're not going to support these "winning" initiatives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u57	Lukashev Alexander Anatolyevich. Mom? Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you can change your mind, and I understand that it is necessary to regulate those bills that have become laws, and it is necessary to give new powers to the authorities, but not by writing new articles for which punishment is not a punishment, but a ridiculous punishment in the form of fines. I want to point out that it's really necessary to authorize it, but to define it to the end. These bills, which one and the other, by substituting concepts, by creating a new article, are not regulation and empowerment. I want to focus on two key points. The new article, which is suggested that in one of the other bills, is 222 with a badge 2. It's an object -- it's a tax on added value. A person with special responsibilities, a director, or an authorized person who submits papers or documents to a government agency and asks him to pay the added tax is already responsible for the false data that is being submitted. There are other articles, there are 366ths, there are all the other articles, and it has not VAT, but it has budget. A normal responsibility for the time being, 222 with badge 2, a new article, it creates a collapse and, notice, only a person gets a fine. The bill also increases, reduces powers and limits the procedural director, the Attorney General, who is forbidden to change the subjectivity of the newly created body. I think it's still necessary to write a new bill, to set up the question of dividing powers, and to determine whether there's an alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u59	Zimbaluk Mikhailovich is invited to attend. Then there's two more speeches, three with a motive, and then we're going to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u60	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians. Last week, the Supreme Council voted on a bill to create a State Bureau of Economic Security. Today, we are considering two bills, the main one, 3959, the alternative, 3959-1, on amending the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code, which are intended to ensure the full functioning of this newly created law enforcement body. But let's wait for the Parliamentary and President to sign this bill to become law. And we are for clearly amending the existing Criminal and Procedural Codes. Finally, the subject of article 191 is to be established. And when in the alternative bill, article 222-2 suggests criminalizing or abusing VAT. Clearly, it must be acknowledged that today such cases can be violated on the basis of acts of the State Tax Office. Law projects, when we talk about basic and alternative, they have the right to life, but in the way they are today, we as the "Paternity" faction can't support it. A new bill is to be prepared that will really create a mechanism for the work of the newly created body, rather than dividing the mandate and giving it to both the Security Service and other law enforcement agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u61	Thank you. Alekseus Sergey Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, what would be the essence of reforming the creation of the Economic Security Bureau? The essence of the reform would be to finally have an organ in our country -- the only body involved in economic crime, not an additional body that would put pressure on business. And it's this bill that proposes to support the committee that clears the rule that gives the Economic Security Bureau exclusive powers to investigate economic affairs. So it's not the only organ that's being created, it's another organ that's going to put pressure on business, along with the BSI and other law enforcement agencies. That's why we don't support this bill. Both business society and experts demanded the creation of a single body. The European Solidarity faction does not support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u63	Thank you. Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov. After that, the Monastery. And then we move on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u64	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! It is absolutely logical and understandable that once a decision has been taken to create such a law enforcement body as the Bureau of Economic Security, a mechanism is needed, and a bill has been introduced that regulates the work of that body and so forth. And a lot of work was done by this bill. But once again, colleagues raise questions, tell me, and business is concerned, if there's a separate 222 article, marked 2, "Twilight with value added tax", then there should also be a write-off mechanism. And the colleagues correctly said, an act of financial verification, of a business institution that confirms that there is such a violation and then it is reported in the Single Register, not the other way around. So we think that this moment should be seriously worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! I want to stress that without this law that we have to adopt in the coming month-and-a-half, the Bureau of Economic Security is not working at all. So the initiatives that we've taken with you must be proven in this law and this is our requirement for parliament. If we're going to divide it into a bill, we're going to rewrite it, we're going to have six months to create the Bureau of Economic Security, and we're going to eliminate the other structure. If we don't do it in these six months, that's until the end of this session, that's going to mean a collapse in the law enforcement system investigating economic crimes. So, the one proposal, let's unite around any of these bills that we have to support and carry on. Please do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the implementation of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Bureau of Economic Security (Registration No. 3959-1). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:07:28]] For 239. Decision taken. Show by factions. 222 – Servant of the People, Opposition Platform – For Life – 0, European Solidarity – 0, Fatherland – 0, For the Future – 2, Voice – 0, Trust – 9, non-fractional – 6. The next issue is the bill amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship (registration number 0934). The first deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations, Tkachenko Maksim Mikolaiovich, is invited to the rostrum. Would you please tell me who's going to insist on editing? It won't. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law (Registration No. 0934) amending article 16 of the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship (0934). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:09:03]] For 346 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Code of Masters of Ukraine on the elimination of legal collations in the requirements of the statute of limited and additional liability societies (registration number 3497). Deputy Head of the Economic Development Committee, Podlas Rocksolan Andriyovn, is invited to the rostrum. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Yes, it will. A confirmation form, that's what I understand. Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I ask you to place number two for confirmation. The point is that the essence of this bill is to fully subordinate the registration process of limited-liability societies and societies with additional responsibility to the Professional Law itself on limited-liability societies and with additional responsibility. This right here refers to the code, and the purpose of this law is to bind this process completely to the Code of Lords. I've spoken to the author, I've spoken to the reporter, I've asked her to be confirmed and not supported. And then after that, I ask you in general to confirm this small but very important law for business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u69	One minute. Oleg Anatoliyovich, the number of the rematch. 12th? 2nd? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u70	It's edited, but we can agree with Mr. Makarov's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u71	I take it the committee doesn't object? No, it's not. And the author won't deny it either. I'm betting on the vote number two of the People's Deputy Fries. It's about confirmation. You have heard the position of committee, author, and Oleg Anatolyovich. Please identify and vote. [[11:12:13]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. We vote for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters on the elimination of legal commissions in the requirements of the statute of societies with limited and additional responsibilities. Ready to vote? Please support and vote 3497. [[11:12:57]] For 318 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next bill is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on support for the development of domestic drug use (registration number 4187, 4187-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:13:39]] For 239. Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Jakimenko, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u72	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Ukraine is a state with a unique mineral raw material base. However, the potential for the sector remains unrealized: only 40 percent of the exploration stocks of beneficial fossils have been developed. It is to overcome this situation and to improve the investment climate that our Bill 4187 has been sent. In particular, it is implemented – it is a digital approach to regulation of industry, online auctions, interactive map of genealogy, electronic cabinet, transparent rules of access to nadr, objective cost of permits, a calculator for geological information, an assessment of the stocks of beneficial fossils according to international standards. Supporting small-scale drug use is simplifying the granting of these special permits to develop useful fossils of local value, increasing the attractiveness of geological intelligence, it's a complex permit for exploration and extraction, and a delay in payment for the granting of a special permit, liberalizing the circulation of rights to use the nadrama, it's a free alienation of rights to use the nadrama. Creating a transparent, simple and comprehensible system of use of nadrama, reducing over-state influence on the field, increasing competition and legalizing relations in the field of the use of nadrama will allow the development of domestic extraction and create conditions for the development of Ukraine's economy and increasing its investment attractiveness. Please support Bill 4187. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u73	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environment, Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend. Please give me four minutes, both from the authors and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u74	The honourable colleagues, the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use, considered two bills at its meeting: Bill 4187, submitted by the people's deputies Yakimenk, Marikovsky and other people's deputies, and 4187-1, an alternative bill submitted by the people's MP Marikovsky and a large number of deputies. In fact, according to their position, these bills are almost identical. Both bills have received a huge number of comments. All comments are constructive, all comments by the committee can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. Dear colleagues, the bill is really important. It's a bill that opens up completely new horizons to invest in the wood industry. This is one of the magnets of Ukraine, as has already been noted. We promise to work very well on this bill for the second reading, to take into account the observations of both NAMC and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, to take into account the observations of public organizations and to adopt a quality bill in the second reading. Please support the bill chosen by the committee, namely Bill 4187. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u75	Thank you. Please sign up: two-by-two, against, from the MP factions and groups. Wasilenko Lesia Volodymyrna. Klimenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u76	No, no, I will. Thank you. In general, the idea of reforming the sector is very good and very timely, because nadra is a resource that belongs to the Ukrainian people, who are temporarily in the government of the state. But it has to be done in a permanent, environmentally sound, understandable and transparent way. Unfortunately, this bill contains a lot and a lot of norms in which the devil has hidden too many dangerous details. Details that can actually put energy security and the whole sector, the whole area on blades, take away more than 25,000 people with decent wages, deprive millions of dollars and millions of dollars from the budget. One example of such dangerous norms is the return of wages for so-called "sleeping" licenses. As the authors of this bill propose to solve the problem, it only deepens the problem. These things need to be corrected at least for the second reading. But given the number of observations and imperfections in this bill, and I'm talking about 4187 right now, it's impossible to support it for the time being. And the Voice faction will hold, pressing the yellow button. We urge our colleagues to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u77	Dubnov, Artem Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u78	Please tell Marikovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u79	Marikovsky Alexander
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, it's actually very strange to hear from the Voice faction about not supporting this bill. Although we discussed in the discussions that certain standards that you are talking about can really be easily corrected for the second reading. But look at the advantages of this bill compared to what is a status quo for today. First of all, you're introducing a D.I. approach to industry regulation. It's online auctions, it's an interactive fertility map, it's an electronic office of companies and organizations that can easily register and get a license. These are transparent rules of access to nadr. This is an objective calculation of the cost of special permits, a calculator for the price of geological information, and an assessment of the stocks of beneficial fossils according to international standards. This is the introduction of this law to international politics. This means that we are making a major and important breakthrough in this bill 4187. And the alternative rules can actually be applied and 4,187 will be worked out qualitatively. Clearly, we cannot accept it in general right now. But given the importance of this area, the importance that this sector needs transparency is absolute, we need to support it. Please, colleagues, do not listen to innuendo and support it in the first reading, and work qualitatively for the second, as our committee head Bondarenko said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u81	Thank you, Alexander Valeriyovich. Pauline. Princess? Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, there are many, indeed, positive standards in this bill. But "European Solidarity" will be held for the following reasons. First of all, we don't agree to completely deprive the authorities of local self-government of the authority to use nudity to develop useful crops. Clearly, this will reduce the level of control over the development of beneficial fossils. Moreover, local communities in our view should have some influence and control over what is happening in their territories. We're against the short-term use of the nadrama being increased from 5 to 20 years, because 20 years is not a short-term term that is temporarily given. We are opposed to the need to assess the environmental impact of amber mining on damaged land areas being ruled out. Because you know perfectly well that amber production is harmful to the environment, and environmental impact assessment should be preserved, including in amber production. We want to secure all situations where permission will only be drawn up for the sole purpose of its further sale, and the corresponding rights should be under State control. The bill removes restrictions on the disposal of industrial waste and sewage. Nadra can only be used in exceptional cases if the requirements laid down by special legislation are met. If this is reversed, the use of ferrets for sewage and the disposal of industrial waste will become massive. Obviously, a special question is, why do you need to work with gas and oil crops within the shelf to pay between 1 and 5 minimum wages per hectare, and for other useful fossils, between 50 and 100 minimum wages per hectare? These questions are too many for us to vote in favour of this bill. We'll hold on. If it's accepted, we'll apply for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u83	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, our faction is strongly opposed to the adoption of this law. We believe that if we want to transfer authority and authority to the regions, to take away from the local communities the opportunity to agree on what to do with the mines and with the nagras in their territories, it is irresponsible in terms of state policy. And we are certainly waiting for a decision to be made on the adoption of the law that the gas produced by the State will be given to the owner of the nadir of Ukraine, that is, the Ukrainian people. But I was expected to raise a tragic question right now, I would say, the President's catastrophic decision to stop speaking to the three largest rating channels in Ukraine. For the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, such a decision has been made absolutely illegal. We all know it's illegal. Because this decision does not fall under the Sanctions Act. There is no basis for making such a decision. I was not surprised, to be honest, I did not expect, but I was not surprised by the joy that the propaganda of the pro-Russians spoke. And on the question -- and what is pro-Russian propaganda, no one can say anything. I was given an example that, frankly, was scary for me that the desire to return four of our citizens from Donetsk and Lugansk is, it turns out, pro-Russian propaganda. And when Dusty returned, the propaganda was accepted. When Greensky brought people back, we were happy for him because people were coming home. And now that four women are in prison, because here they can't agree on how to get them back and who has to do it, and who does it, it's already a crime against these people. And closing the mouth to journalists because they talk about it is a crime against journalists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u85	Nestor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I see Watsak, I see Rudik and Kabachenko. The first Rudik approached. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. Now, three minutes of speech with motive, and we're going to vote in favour of the law. Please invite Ukrainian national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, three months ago local elections were held in Ukraine. We have chosen communities and declared once again that decentralization is the key course of our nation. Today, this bill proposes that the local authorities withdraw the extraction of useful fossils of local significance, not of national significance, local significance, and peat. I'm not saying that we're proposing to cancel article 22 of the Codex Codex on Nadras on the Limitation of Straddling for Wastes of Production and Other Harmful Substances. How can this be worked out for a second reading, explain? I want to be constructive, but I don't understand how. And what's suggested is that the short term for using nadr is going to increase from 5 to 20 years. Excuse me, is this a short-term use? Therefore, at the first reading stage, our parliamentary group will not vote, but will listen to the authors' arguments in order to change its position on second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u87	Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u88	Kabachenko Volodymyr, Fatherland. Colleagues, one very simple question, are we today so vastly and completely eradicated the existing corruption in Ukraine that today we will agree to give our votes for a bill containing outright corruption risks. Last Tuesday, the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee reviewed the bill, invited the author, heard the author, and the unanimous decision of the committee is very simple that the bill contains corruption. And despite the fact that this bill, it is actually within some of its limits useful and useful for consideration, in the form in which the bill is now registered and submitted for first reading, it is absolutely unacceptable. And that's why the "Fatherland" faction abstains from voting for this bill in the first reading. And we propose, and we even insist, that this bill clearly needs work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u89	Thank you. Wax.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! Gennady Watsak, Winnitzkin, the trust MP. This is a very important bill that provides for a simplification of the procedure for obtaining permits for the use of drama. Its adoption will create conditions for the development of the sector as a whole, and it will help to remove the shortages of useful fossils needed in the construction of roads. Everybody knows that the economic efficiency of the Big Construction project is determined by two things: the cost of raw materials and the cost of logistics. A shortage of raw materials leads to an increase in its value and to an increase in the cost of road construction. And logistics kills repaired Ukrainian roads. A member of the trust group will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u91	Let's go to the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to support the development of domestic drug use sectors (registration No. 4187). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:30:28]] For 212 The decision is not taken. I am voting for a motion to refer to a committee to prepare for the re-reading of the draft Law (registration number 4187). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:31:01]] For 257 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending Article 173. 2 Ukraine Code on Administrative Offences for Increasing Administrative Responsibility for Domestic Violence (registration number 3908, 3908-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:31:45]] For 249 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Irina Miroslavovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u92	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, we have a bill (3908) to amend article 173. 2 Ukraine Code on Administrative Offences to Increase Administrative Responsibility for Domestic Violence This bill is called upon to impose appropriate punishment for domestic violence. Last year, in the world and in Ukraine, he became peaked at the scale of this social disaster. There are many reasons. And one of the leaders is the Coronavirus pandemic, which has forced victims of violence to remain under one roof with their perpetrators. In the 20th year, the National Police filed over 208 thousand complaints of domestic violence. Think about it, 208 grand! 141 were seriously injured and 74 were killed. The evidence suggests that women are the most likely victims of violence. This is a case of psychological, physical, or sexual violence. Experts who specialize in combating this phenomenon find domestic violence to be more violent and widespread. One of the causes of the outbreak of aggression is impunity for those who commit it. Ukraine’s Code on Administrative Offences provides for fines on offenders, sadly, these are too small, meager fines of 170 and 340 dollars. Our bill proposes to increase fines. And I appeal to all the national MPs who publicly claim to support family values, to support family harmony, to support our bill as one that makes it possible to fight domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u93	Thank you. National MP Bardina Marina Olegovna, author of an alternative bill, is invited to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u94	Good afternoon, colleagues! In fact, according to the previous report, the number of reported cases of domestic violence in 2020 has increased. But the reason for this is not only the pandemic, but also the openness, the publicity of this problem in Ukrainian society. Every year we talk more and more about the problem of domestic violence in public. More and more opportunities and tools are being developed for men and women who suffer from domestic violence to turn to law enforcement agencies. Last year, President Zelensky issued an order to increase, in fact, measures against domestic violence in Ukraine. We're working on the Biarritz Partnership initiative, initiated by First Lady, the problems of preventing domestic violence, building a hotline, building a network of shellers, shelters for people affected by domestic violence. In our alternative bill, we're actually proposing to move away from the fine system, increase fines. Why, I'll explain. Because courts in practice rarely take into account the material condition of the family with which they own, and there is a situation of violence. That is to say, it is often not enough that a family member suffers violence and that the family budget spends money on these sanctions. When the abuser does not work, these costs come from the budget of the injured person at all. Instead, we suggest that we do useful social work by directing appropriate money to the affected party, as well as by increasing the time limit. I ask your support, along with the committee and the IMF, we are working on this bill for the second reading, and today we are voting for an alternative on the basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u95	Thank you. The word is given to the deputy head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the People’s Deputies, Mikhailuk Galini Olegni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u96	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Protection at its meeting on 16 December considered the draft Law of Ukraine (number 3908), as well as an alternative bill (number 3908, para. 1). Both bills have been drafted for the sole purpose of improving the legal regulation and invoking responsibility for domestic violence, gender-based violence, and the practical realization of the victim's right to compensate for material damage and moral damage caused by domestic violence. Thus, Bill 3908 proposes a substantial increase of fines to 34,000 dollars, which is defined without due cause and does not take into account the general criteria for the acquisition of administrative fees provided for in the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. In addition, the proposed fines actually impose administrative offences on one level with a criminal. Thus, the committee finds it inappropriate to adopt Bill 3908, since this could result in the opposite of its purpose. The alternative bill number 3908 p.m.1 is much broader than the basic bill, so its adoption is seen as more effective in the area of protection against domestic violence, and the adoption of the bill will contribute to the implementation of the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and the fight against these phenomena. In addition, the implementation of the alternative bill itself will allow for a more effective form of punishment for the offences provided for in article 173. 2 Ukraine Code on Administrative Offences and will reduce the latency of this offence. Thus, the Committee on Law Protection recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law (registration number 3908) on the basis of the first reading to reject and draft Law 3908-1 to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u97	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u98	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, Your Honor, your colleagues! First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to the authors of both bills, because the topic of domestic violence is relevant, and today more than ever, during the pandemic period, quarantine and other unforgivable socio-economic problems faced by Ukrainian families. When we talk about a basic bill that proposes to fine 100 times for domestic violence, we had a very serious discussion with our experts. And a lot of them tend to think that if we punish one family member’s domestic violence, that amount is 34,000 dollars and we take more from the family budget. 17,000 is also a lot of money. But this is one of the mechanisms that has the right, by the way, to discuss. If we talk about an alternative bill, it expands the weight on those violators of home comfort or tranquillity, but it provides for an alternative rule other than a fine, more public work. Also a very questionable norm, I explain why. If in rural areas today they are drawn to administrative responsibility for this violation and a fine is imposed, a more faithful punishment is public work, how the village cannot always provide for this type of attraction. Moreover, this wrongdoer should be paid directly from the budget of the community. We think we can support an alternative bill, but we can work out and consider the basic proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u99	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, this subject that we are discussing today is extremely important. If a bill, whether basic or alternative, is approved, it is possible for the first time to bring responsibility to bear, not just small fines, for domestic violence. In the past, you had to wait until you were beaten until you were reinstated, in order to still be held accountable for the abuser. The Voice faction will support an alternative bill and I'll explain why. Because when a fine of 34,000 dollars, and I want to tell you that it is a fine higher than, for example, driving a car in an unsettling condition, will lie on the family, very often it will be an irresistible burden just that will lie on the family budget, not on a person who is actually a violent person. So it is very common for a woman to pay this fine if you suddenly become reconciled. If we're saying that most of the violence does apply to women, it's going to have to look for that money instead of a man-rape being able to go and have public works applied to it. So I'm very much asking you to support an alternative bill, which is much more that covers more moments. And I ask you very much not to put this burden on the family budget, which is now mainly bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u101	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian people, I would like to point out that there is a problem that needs to be solved. But solving the problem with new sanctions is already practice in Ukraine, it does not solve the problem. I want to point out that there is currently article 172 with the 3 KUPAP badge, but it does not perform its primary function. The basic function of an article that clearly provides for the upbringing of a person who has committed an administrative offence in a spirit of adherence to the laws of Ukraine, respect for the rules of cohabitation, and failure to continue committing the same offences. We don't want to solve the problem, we draw additional sanctions, we introduce a new type of punishment for community service. Minustu’s position on community service differs from that of the bill, for no one understands how and who will control their implementation. For the time being, there are repairs. And this type of punishment, the pay-control mechanism, it doesn't exist, and we don't introduce this bill. But there are strong standards that just contradict each other. Changes will be made to article 15, to article 173, bearing the badge 2 KUPAP: Both military officers and law enforcement officers will be on the same line, having a disciplinary statute, under this law to be held accountable. But if there is violence in the family that makes up the protocol, the guardian is the guardian of the law, if the subject is the guardian, and now he is obliged to work in the law enforcement agency.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u103	Thank you. Tchaikovsky John Adamovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u104	Please pass the word to my colleague, Speedhod Annie.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u105	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I very much ask that you pay attention to the fact that in 170 dollars we will not stop domestic violence. And if you're so worried about your household budgets and you're saying that budgets can't handle 17,000 fines or 34,000 fines, maybe you don't just have to commit violence against your other half to keep those fines off. If we are to protect our families, we need to strengthen our responsibility so that our husband knows that he cannot raise his hand against his wife or vice versa. So we ask for the first basic bill, not an alternative. Look at the number of deputies who signed it, who support it. Please note that if there is violence in the family, can it be called a healthy family? You have to do social work here to make sure it doesn't happen. What is more, it is not clear why the alternative law singles out military personnel? Maybe we should all take responsibility on an equal footing, and we don't have one straight and one straighter? So I ask everyone to make sure that we have peace, peace, and harmony in our families. And only if a person knew that he would be responsible for his actions would be the result. I would like everyone to fully support the basic bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, now there are three speeches of motive. I can see that I remember. And then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Alekseus Sergey Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u108	Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u109	Geo Bagravitch Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I call for the support of the alternative bill 3908-1. But I want to go to the law enforcement committee and ask them to draft a bill that prohibits violence against the state. And in the title of the bill, write "secretaries" of President Andri Borisovich of Ukraine to ban violence against the state. The whole Parliament will be very grateful to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u111	Borrowing Irina On purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u112	Irina Borzov, Winnitzkin, Servant of the People. First of all, I would like to support the legislative initiative to increase the responsibility for domestic violence. You know, when I was in the district, I realized that most of the women who had experienced domestic violence unfortunately didn't know where to go. Sadly, they do not know that since 2019 Winnickin has been a shelter for those who have experienced domestic violence. A person who has suffered domestic violence will be able to stay safely and free of charge and receive legal and social assistance. I want to support the bill under registration number 3908-1, which increases the term of administrative arrest, and it also proposes to introduce a new type of punishment – the commission of community service offenders. And I also want to say that often enough, offenders don't pay an administrative fine because they don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u113	Thank you. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u114	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, again, two groups of those having such a deep discussion. Lawyers who analyze very carefully how consistent are those sanctions that are imposed, whether they are needed at all. And the second group is those who are talking, and whether they really need such a bill, let us in society create such an atmosphere to be full of harmony in families, and the very fact of domestic violence will be secondary and so on. But let's go down to the Ukrainian realities. Unfortunately, we have a huge number of such cases. Those centers, those protective organs that are supposed to work, do not perform their functions until the end. Therefore, we need to look for an additional legislative solution. So the "Trust" MP calls on the first reading, we will definitely support the alternative bill, and the second reading is the most optimal one for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Domestic Violence and Sexual Violence (registration No. 3908-1). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote [[11:51:43]] For 328 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue is the bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the activities of the National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes (registration number 3335-1-d). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:52:27]] For 241 Decision taken. The vice president of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy, Janchenko Galina Igorovna, both from the committee and from the authors, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, good afternoon! Your opinion is on draft Act No. 3335-1-d on improving the work of the National Agency of Ukraine on the detection and management of assets derived from corruption and other crimes. It's a work in progress, colleagues, a bill, and now we're looking at it on a re-first reading. I want to point out that this is very different from the bill that was passed on the first reading. We've taken into account all the observations made by the MPs who joined in the drafting of this bill. In fact, it is this bill that we propose to start reforming the system of asset management that has long matured in Ukraine. Now it's about the bill itself, which has really changed it. First and foremost. ARMA's authorization will not expand. Once again, the authority of the ARMA in this bill will not expand. The other one. This, too, is the case with Minnesota. In this draft for re-reading, we take the procedural status of the ARM in criminal proceedings, the ARMA will not be given any separate procedural status. Instead, what was left was added to the bill. I would like to highlight three key changes. First. ARMA will not be able to sell property until the verdict. This means actually protecting investors, protecting people who have been building and developing businesses for a long time, they won't lose it until the court decides, they won't be able to influence the ARMA," they won't be able to influence some rural, sorry, prosecutors who are today arresting the property and handing it over to the ARMA. The only exception here will be goods that are rapidly corrupting, in fact, food products, or goods that the owner has given his own consent to sell. The second conceptual and very important change. The owners of the property will be able to give the ARMA its own decision to cancel the arrest on their property. To date, this authority has been vested with the prosecutor and the court, who are to send the original court ruling, as a result of which the ARMA may not return property from which the arrest has already been removed for months. We're looking at such a case in the Parliamentary Special Commission on the Protection of Investors' Rights. Third change. The bill creates conditions for the sale of property in the ARMA at auctions as transparently and honestly as possible through the ProZorro system. So the purpose of this bill is to correct the errors in the asset management system and remove the discretionary powers of the ARMA. In fact, clean up the corruption that has taken place in the ARMA today, which has systematically caused problems for Ukrainian and foreign investors. I'd like to say that this bill, it's not written in theory, it's written in practice. Today, the parliamentary special committee for the protection of investors' rights, which I am in charge of, every third, every fourth appeal and complaint from the business that we receive, are directly or indirectly related to the abuses that are in the ARMA. This bill removes such abuses. These are real specific cases. For example, the Ashan case that was raided over the ARMA 27 hectares of land. This is the case of Novoyavorovský TEC, where problems in legislation left the city of last winter without light and heat. It's a case of the Brother's oilpress factory that couldn't get its factory back for six months, again because of the imperfections of legislation. The committee fully supports this bill and recommends that it be adopted on a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u117	Thank you. Galina Igorovna, sit down. Dear colleagues, we have three minutes to recess, there is an offer of statements from factions and groups to be held after the break, and a vote to take place after the break. Is there no objection? I see there isn't. There's a break until 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u119	Certainly, Arthur Volodymyrovich, but a little later. I understand that you support this bill, and I think the authors thank you. I realized that "For the Future" was also supporting this bill. I see you're supportive. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for work. What are you ready to do? Ready? Please sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Mustafa Jemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u120	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u121	Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u122	I think there are a lot of questions before this bill, colleagues. I have a question: why do the army have access to databases with limited access to information? It's such a big know-how, because it's usually not necessary for such structures to actually do their work. And what this law is adopted for, I think, is also obvious and clear, so that the assets arrested could be transferred to the administration. And here I would recommend that each of you think about what we're really doing, what precedents we're making. You have an asset, he's under arrest. You're going to court, and the court hasn't decided whether you're guilty or not, whether you're innocent or corrupt, you've acquired this asset, whether it's illegal or not. But nevertheless, by the decision of the investigating judge, you're already your asset. In fact, it's managed by other people, actually controlled by the ARMA. And you know, we already see these precedents, because it's already happening. This is happening, for example, with a structure like the Ukrainian Media Holding, which is now managed by the ARMA. So if we're arresting a media asset and it's controlled by a government structure or actually by a government authority, we understand why it's done -- to take the information space under control and specifically clean it up. So I'd say, just think about what precedents we're making, what we can do with any asset and manage it years before we can prove the real owner of this asset. And translate it into yourself, think about whether this is necessary and what precedents we can create in this regard. We're not voting for this bill because it's real.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u123	Anna Constantine's speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u124	Please give the word to Batenku Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u125	Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u126	Good afternoon, dear fellows! For us, for the "For the Future" MP group, I think, for many of the deputies present in this room. A structure like ARMA has long stood as a parable in the tongues. We have, as you know, sent this bill for re-reading, and it belongs to those categories of bills that want to be pushed into when it doesn't stick, in the language of our predecessors. I want to say that ARMA is such a small state in the state. And we see, unfortunately, that this amended bill does not remove those risks of a previous draft of the bill. We know how inefficient the ARMA, in its previous leadership, actually managed the assets arrested, how inefficient they were with regard to its management. We know about how she collapsed the management of two TECs in the Lviv region, which actually led to a breakdown of the heating season in Novoyavorysk and New Rostole. And actually what I want to say is that we see in this bill that some people there took things, they took the special fund from the ARMA budget, they moved comas and basically everything. So what I'm saying is that there's still a great degree of legal uncertainty, which can impact the legitimacy of the process itself by managing the assets of the ARMA. We are convinced that the granting of ARMA in full terms of ownership rights, use and management of property, which constitutes the content of ownership, is unacceptable and goes beyond what this agency was created for. We believe that the proposal to exclude from the Agency's annual report the amount of assets sought has nothing but an effort to enable the ARMA to manipulate reports: the reports show only the number of assets sought, not its absence, not its value, I apologize. That's why I think and our parliamentary group fully supports that we will continue to insist that such a bill should be sent for work. We will not support him in this session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u127	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u128	Dear friends, thank you very much. In fact, in the process of redrafting, the bill became slightly better. Yes, we need to be able to sell assets on more transparent sites like ProZorro, not just on a fairly closed Setam and competition in this direction is positive. But I want to remind you of a small situation that was with asset arrest and asset management by former head of the Klimenkov fiscal service, yes, the sad ones are now Telegram Kanalchik, who is Janukovich's father. And then the Kyiv District Administrative Court banned the ARMA from running. I mean, there was an arrest, and there was no way to manage those assets, and then there was a struggle at the Paroussa. What is now proposed by this bill? In general, the bill removes the ARMA as a party to the trial. That is, it is possible to pass it on or not to transfer it, be it possible to delegate it or not to delegate it. In fact, the ability to manage effectively is diminishing. And so it is important to take into account the position of good investors, who are very often abused by the corrupt leadership of the ARMA. But on the other hand, we need to understand that we need to protect the state's ability to manage those assets that are actually stolen from the people. We have to look for this balance. So we're not going to vote in favour of this law right now, but we think we need to work on it to make the ARMA an effective mechanism. Finally, change the direction of the ARMA. It's a shame when we can't take a long time to replace people to whom we have serious observations with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u129	Bogdanec Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u130	Good afternoon, colleagues. This bill is not constructive. In fact, it does not meet its goal of improving the management of the assets arrested. There are situations that make it possible to commit corruption. Many in the bill of estimates that do not make it possible to understand clearly the algorithm of action and can lead to a home invasion. For example, the realisation of assets because of the rapid increase in their value before sentencing. So how many assets are going to wait for a drop in value until the court gives permission to implement them? Then it is not the standard for recognition of inefficiency. There is also no basis for direct access by the ARM to a single register of pretrial investigations, as our colleague Sumar said. This may lead some individuals to realize, share, or share, this information with someone they do not need. This bill needs to be finalized, because the realisation of the assets has to be clearly written out, or we're going to have to have legal chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u131	Thank you. Haircut, I see. Mother, I see. Is there anyone else who will insist on making a statement of motive? None. Now we have two speeches, then we go to the vote. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u132	Thank you, Mr. Head. What Is ARMA Today? ARMA today is total corruption. ARMA today is an opportunity to sell property without a person being found guilty and so on. Should this be changed? Of course you do. But I would like to remind some of the speakers that this disgusting ARMA has created BPT in the previous chamber of Parliament in such a disgusting way. That's the first one. The other one. Bill 3335-1-d, is it perfect? Of course not. Absolutely not. Should it be worked out? Apparently, yes. But it's quite obvious that this bill, this movement in the right direction, is in the right direction. So the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill because that disgusting ARMA that it is needs to be changed. But we will see clearly how this bill will prepare for the second reading and follow up on what will be the changes between the first and the second readings. And in the first reading, we need to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u133	Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u134	Dear national deputies, indeed, have a problem with the ARMA, but it's exactly like the State Bureau of Investigation. For more than a year now, the director of the ARMA has not been in charge. What do we want from that body? No matter how much you change the law or make bills, the body will only do what is convenient for it to do. And other law enforcement agencies are either conspiring or failing to perform their functions and allowing those things to be dealt with by co-reporters from the rostrum. Everyone can be authorized -- to delete, to order, to use, and everything else, as decided by the court. What if the court's decision is about to return the asset and the asset has already been sold? This rule is not provided for in the law. We will not support this bill in this way. And through the law enforcement committee, I'm paying attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u135	Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the activities of the National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes (registration No. 3335-1-d). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[12:44:49]] For-195 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to refer to the committee for a re-reading of the bill registration number 3335-1-d. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:45:23]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. Show by factions. "People's Servant" – 204, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 19, "Party for the Future" – 0, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 10, "non-fractional" – 6. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Strengthening Responsibility for Violations of Natural Ecosystems against Fire (Registration No. 3755). It's a second reading. Is anyone going to insist on the readouts? Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to increase the liability for violations of legislation in the field of protection of natural ecosystems from fires (registration No. 3755). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:46:50]] For 315 Decision taken. Thank you. The law was passed in general. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Law on Geographical Names on Improving Activities in the Establishment, Standardization, Accounting, Registration, Use and Conservation of Geographical Names (Registration No. 4079). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:47:39]] For 241 Decision taken. It's a government law. The Deputy Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture, Visatsky Taras Mikolajovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u136	Dear Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, you are invited to consider Bill 4079. This is a continuation of the Ukrainian Presidential Programme of Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski's programme for the creation of a transparent market for land. We thank you for supporting the creation of the national geospace data infrastructure last spring. The president signed this law on May 6th, and it went into effect. You were also supported yesterday in a second reading and in general the possibility of introducing a border, a state border, into the State Land cadastre. All these steps are a logical continuation of the need for transparent conditions and the availability of all information related to land use with all resources. Today, such geographical names are listed as rivers, lakes, cities, villages, and they are also not actually included in the single information system and are also not defined by the holder’s authority. The bill will just allow all the information on geographical names to be provided to the national geospace infrastructure, and will define the administrator of the register. It strengthens the principle of disclosure of the names of geographical objects and provides free and free access to relevant information. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u137	Thank you. A member of the Committee on Economic Development, Kitsak Bogdan Viktorovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u138	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on 19 November 2020 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Geographical Names on Improving Activities in the Establishment, Standardization, Accounting, Registration, Use and Conservation of Geographical Names. The bill proposes two important things. The first is to determine the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the area of activities related to the establishment of geographical names. To this end, Ukraine’s law did not contain a provision to empower the government in this area of activity. And the second important thing. This law provides for the creation of an open, free and convenient State register of geographical names in which it is possible to search, copy and store information on geographical names in an online format. An electronic database of geographical names for Ukraine’s Geographical Names Tree contains more than 100,000 geographical names. So essentially, we're now taking another logical step towards creating geospatial data infrastructure. As a result of the discussion, Ukrainian National Deputies decided to introduce a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Geographical Names (Registration No. 4079) and recommend that the Halls consider the first reading and accept it as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u139	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Mustafa Jemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u140	Please pass the word to your colleague Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u141	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u142	Good afternoon, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Minister! I mean, and I think that the bill is logical and necessary. This bill is aimed at openness and systematization of free access to information by the State Register of Geographical Names. The position of the second is to specify the authority of the public authorities in the area of registration, the calculation of geographical names. The third position is that the bill guarantees free and free access to the register. The third position is to clarify the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers, including individual cases where the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers is strengthened. And the fourth position is what the GNEU recommends, and I would like to point out that today's bill in point notes of terminology, the expiration date, we need to set up and determine the logical and correct approach defined in this position. And finally, I want to say that "European Solidarity" will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u143	Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u144	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Rušišin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u145	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, in order to strengthen international cooperation, trade, economic development and information accessibility, please support the bill on improving legislation on the creation and introduction of the State Register of Geographical Names, which will make available relevant online information on geographical names. The Voice faction will vote in favour and we urge other factions to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u147	Isainko Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u148	Please pass the Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u149	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u150	Thank you. Your Honour, Mr. Head! Today we're looking at a bill that even mocked the MPs themselves from "The Servant of the People," which is the famous Geographical Names Act. I don't see the point in commenting on it, because the challenges facing the country today, the economic failure that exists today, I don't see the logic in how this bill can, for example, overcome industrial collapse by more than 5 percent. Or how, tell me, Mr. Secretary of State, how are you going to change agriculture by 11 percent? You have a budget deficit of 215 billion dollars and so on, and so on and so forth. You have an absolute failure, there is no macroeconomic indicator that at least one has increased, and the GDP has fallen by 4.4 percent. What is the logic of such bills? He's totally not responding to the time calls. This time. The other one. There is a question of tariff policy, and in no way does it solve it. For example, you offered a gas price of 6.99, set a tariff for delivery of 1 December 79 without VAT, and with VAT the total amount is already 9 thousand 138. Nine thousand 138 dollars will be paid during February and March of this year. Again, where are the geographical names, how do they solve poverty in the country, the end of the poverty era, and, above all, the modernization of the country? And the last. We understand why opposition MPs are being shut down, for which economic sanctions are being imposed, in order not to make such statements out of this rostrum, so that independent information channels do not report the objective state of affairs in the country. And so far, unfortunately, the authorities are doing absolutely wrong things that are facing the economy of the country. That's why we're not going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u151	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u152	Please pass the word to Mr. Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u153	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. After that, "Fatherland" is for reasons, "Trust," and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u154	My fellow Members, of course, our MP Party for the Future is going to vote in favour of this technical bill, which we should have voted long ago and forgotten, as well as to forget to fill the cadastral with real data, and many of the existing registers that taxpayers have created in our country. But I would like to continue with the topic that Deputy Koltunovich has just begun. Are you now concerned only with geographical names in the agenda, not with the 4618 Bill of Julia Timoshenko and the large list of deputies, and should we be discussing here to sell the population gas of domestic production? Not to lower the water tariffs that the NCREKP allowed almost 20 percent of all water ducts about the previous year? Is that what the Ukrainians are worried about right now? Maybe enough, society, to fill in the order of the day with technical documents that need to be taken and voted in favour and moved on to more important ones? So, society, honestly, let's somehow approach the agenda, as more to a serious document, rather than to technical things that aren't worth our attention at this very time. We're in, we're in, we're in. Please change the time limit for this law to take effect. The next day after the publication, well, knowing the specification of 100,000 names for the Single Register, it's not real. It takes at least a few months to make sure that the information involved in its application is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u155	I see Timoshenko, the alien. Then we vote. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u156	Thank you. It was now called my last name on the bill to set normal prices for gas and heat. You know, we have a bill of 4680 that stipulates that people should be given back as before 2014: Ukrainian gas is 3 bracelets, not 9 cubic meters, and gas is delivered from gas repositories at virtually cost. You know that this bill (4680) can be voted on in the ad hoc mode literally in one day. And we agreed that I would go to all the faction leaders to sign for the ad hoc regime. Unfortunately, three factions have not yet signed ad hoc. He's the leader of the "Serve of the People" faction, "European Solidarity" and "The Voice." And these three signatures are now holding back the ad hoc consideration of this bill, people need to know their heroes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u157	The alien Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u158	Boris Prijedzko, MP group "Trust". As far as Law 4079 is concerned. An obvious benefit from the adoption of this bill will be the satisfaction of the needs of any subject to obtain reliable information on geographical names. This is particularly relevant in the context of the current changes in geographical names in the process of decentralization. At the same time, the bill has some problematic aspects. Its individual positions do not meet the principles of legal certainty. In particular, it is not clear how the government’s expertise will affect the decision of the relevant body to rename a geographical object. However, we believe that the relevant problematic aspects can be further developed in furthering the second reading. That's why the Trust MPs will support the adoption of this project as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u159	Ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote, take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Geographical Names on the Improvement of Activities relating to the Installation, Standardization, Accounting, Registration, Use and Conservation of Geographical Names (Registration No. 4079). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:01:24]] For 310 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Arahami, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u160	Colleagues, we have the Law, which can and will be considered without discussion, Dmitrika, on increasing responsibility for illegal evictions (4333). If you can get it up in the daytime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u161	I understand that you're asking your colleagues to consider this bill without discussion and to change the order of the day? That's right, isn't it? Dear colleagues, no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the responsibility for illegal evictions (registration No. 4333). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:02:47]] For 330. Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation on the General Planning Scheme for Ukraine (Registration No. 3337). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:03:24]] For 251 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine Dunda Oleg Andriyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u162	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. You have submitted a bill under registration number 3337 amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation on the General Planning Scheme for Ukraine. What is the General Scheme? The general planning scheme for Ukraine is a type of urban activity that determines first and foremost the conceptual solutions for the planning and use of the territory of the State for a sufficiently long period of time. A large number of European countries already have their own General Scheme in one way or another. Not an exception to our country of Ukraine: our General Scheme, which was approved back in 2000, but unfortunately, its term of activity expired a month ago, January 1. All of this requires the urgent need to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation, which allows for the initiation of work on the development of a new General Scheme and its transfer to modern technology. What else are we trying to decide by this bill? That's four questions. First of all, given that we had a change in the social and political situation, we had a major decentralization that year, so we should make appropriate changes to the general scheme by this bill. Secondly, we need to reconcile the issues between the public interests, the transport highways, the security zones, and so on, with the regional and local interest in the development of these areas. We should continue to allow the Ministry of Regional Development and the Communities to work out tools for the development of each community of their territories, depending on their territorial aspects and nuances, so that each community can develop. And eventually this will give a tool for each community to understand what it has.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u163	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and Bondar Hanna Veyacheslavna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u164	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, today we are considering Bill No.3337 on amending the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of urban activities on the General Planning Scheme for Ukraine, submitted by the People's Deputy Oleg Dunda and other deputies. The current General Planning Scheme for Ukraine ended on January 1, 2021. It is extremely important for Ukraine to develop and approve a new Ukrainian General Scheme during this year, particularly in relation to administrative and territorial reform and decentralization processes, which should be in line with the priorities of national regional policy. In developing the new scheme, Ukraine’s integration into the European community, the construction of new international transport corridors, and the development of cross-border regions should be taken into account. It is important to join in the European scheme of conservation areas by introducing the concept of the Emerald Network, and Gensheim’s position should be in line with the conclusions of the United Nations conference on the development of habitats in Habitat III. At its meeting on 4 November 20th, the Committee considered the bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Rules of First Instance, as a basis for its consideration in the first reading. In view of the need for comprehensive drafting of the bill, the Committee adopted a decision to ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to declare, in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules, the need for proposals and amendments to amend, clarify, remove errors and/or contradictions in the text of the bill, other structural parts of the bill and/or other legislative acts that were not subject to consideration in the first reading and correspond to the subject of legal regulation. The Committee also recommends that the Supreme Council, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Rules, shorten the time limit for the subject to submit a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u165	Thank you. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u166	I would like to give you my word, Mr. Head, of Vátrovitch Volodymyr. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u167	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u168	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Many positions of this project can be agreed upon, but at the same time it also contains openly unacceptable things. First, the mandate to approve the General Area Planning Scheme is given from the Supreme Council to the government, and the General Area Planning Scheme Act is repealed. This is not in line with the laws of Ukraine on State Forecasting and Development of Economic and Social Development Programmes, on the Basics of Urban Building, and most importantly, it is contrary to 85 articles of the Constitution. Strategic documents of this level should be approved by Parliament itself. Secondly, the General Scheme is no longer called urban documentation. This is not an accident, for the requirements of the city’s documentation are therefore binding on all construction subjects, and the development programme of the regions and settlements should be in line with the construction documentation of the relevant level. If the documentation is not urban, it may or may not be consistent. Thirdly, while the two named innovations are already creating an endless field for corruption and corruption and chaotic forgetfulness, the authors are firing an additional checkpoint, directly removing from the law the words "city-building documentation at the state level is subject to expertise and strategic, environmental assessment." The Anti-Corruption Committee has recognized the project as one that does not meet the requirements of anti-corruption legislation, creates legal uncertainty and contains corruption risks. Therefore, "European Solidarity" will not vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u169	Wasilenko Lesia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u170	Thank you. Colleagues, this bill is correct in terms of the strategic development of the territories and contains the right idea for the principles of sustainable development and environmentalization of society. But the greening of cities and communities should not only be reflected in strategic documents. This should also be reflected in the practice of such practical documents as the master plans of cities. And unfortunately, so far there are very and very few general plans for cities that really reflect the interests of the people of these cities who protect their well-being. And more and more geneplans and geneplans that look like building companies' interests and money protection for building companies. Not exception is the design of the city of Kiev – our capital – that destroys the natural-invention zones that destroy the parks, the green plants. An example of this is, for example, Feofania Park, which was once a forest, and now the area of even this park area is shrinking more and more each year, because construction is going on and on. There's the Owl, and there's still the illegal offshore Dniper. And there are many examples about Ukraine. There are positive examples, of course. Such examples can be listed on the fingers of one hand. This is Zitomir, Vinnica, Chortkov, and Kamyanec, 4 cities that are now declared to be life-friendly, energy-efficient, that develop according to the principles of sustainable development. And our task with you, colleagues, in this Supreme Council is to build our work in such a way as to ecologicalize as many laws, legislative initiatives as possible, laws that apply far more than urban activities and community development. One such bill is this one, but it really needs a lot of work to be done in line with those recommendations that have been made both by the communities and by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u171	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u172	Please pass the word to Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u173	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u174	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, for your remarks on the Territory Planning Act. You know, I want to plan the territory, I want to. But I'm talking to journalists, and they're telling me, well, what kind of territorial laws are you to consider when you're denying us the right to speak? Why the Constitution of Ukraine guarantees us the right to speak, and we are responsible for what we are talking about under the Television and Radio Act, whichever it is no longer there and whatever it is. But the fault and responsibility of journalists must be determined solely by the court if they are Ukrainian journalists. As far as aliens are concerned, sanctions can be used. Regarding our journalists, protected by Ukrainian law, the Constitution protects them. Regardless of how you plan your territory, the holy right to freedom of speech is guaranteed in all the areas planned in this law. So today our faction demands responsibility for an illegal decision signed today by the President of Ukraine. Have you read today's ratings? "The Opposition Platform for Life" has been around almost 4 percent of you already. That's what the President is afraid of – that he's not the first! Do you think you can fix the situation with such sanctions? Raise wages, lower tariffs, return peace, bring vaccines, protect people, serve them, and not shut their mouths! That's why people give you the grade that you're afraid of and you want to get revenge for: today because of journalists and tomorrow directly to people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u175	I'm sorry, Edward Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u176	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! As I consider this extremely important bill, I would like to emphasise in some way the environmental component, which unfortunately is not fully mentioned in this bill. Take particular note of Mindowkill and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the bill, which made a number of observations. In particular, it is noted that the inadequacy of the bill is the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment. Mindocyl notes that the cancellation of the need to conduct a strategic environmental assessment procedure for Ukraine's General Planning Scheme cannot be supported in view of the following. The violation of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU, the non-compliance of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Trans-border Context ratified by Ukraine in 2015 and, in fact, the non-compliance with the Ukrainian Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment. I would like to point out to my colleagues that these are very important remarks. Unfortunately, on our environmental committee, we were unable to make these comments, for it was only today that we had to consider and make proposals to the Main Committee. So I'm actually urging my colleague to send this bill back for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u177	Honorable colleagues, all willing to speak? Bacon, Batenko, Krulko. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. After that, two more speeches and a vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u178	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". The general scheme is an important comprehensive document, and this document agrees on the development of different sectors of the state's economy in its territories. And in today's social and political conditions, there's probably a need to look at the general framework of some kind of forecast and developmental priorities. But there's a "but." First of all, the General Scheme is depriving itself of the status of construction documentation. And now it's the main kind of planning documentation for the territory. The development of the General Scheme will be mandatory, and the permit to develop Gensham is not given by the Supreme Council but by the government and, worse still, by the deadline. Of course, it is not appropriate to accept this indeterminateness that the document should be long - term, but not forever. That's why we think the trust MP group needs to be worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u179	Krulko Ivanovich. I'll give it to you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u180	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, it is clear that such bills, which are strategic, which should determine the socio-economic development of Ukrainian territories, the zoning, the resettlement of the population of Ukraine, must certainly be provided for in the updated law. And in the first reading, this bill can be supported on one condition that we will make changes to the second reading, so that Parliament is not deprived of the opportunity to approve Ukraine's General Scheme. But, at the same time, I'd like to point out that we need to continue to work out the general plans of the cities. Look what's happening in our cities. See how foolishly built - up Kiev is when there is no social infrastructure, when it is built, not according to the master plan, but to whom it is intended, and it is not only in Kiev. Obviously that's the first step, and then we need to put order in the DBN, and we need to put order in the general plans so that we can, by building cities, think first of the normal lives of people, of green zones.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u181	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u182	First of all, we're surprised that in a separate faction of the majority, once again, cognitive dissonance, although in a number of bills that we're voting on, it's no longer surprising. We understand that for 20 years there is a Master Planning Scheme for Ukraine, and not only four presidents of Ukraine, but 14 governments of Ukraine, but the country itself has changed, the state of the farm complex has changed, the system of resettlement, transportation infrastructure, cross-border processes, border processes, and all of this, of course, has to be taken into account. And of course, we have to take into account the experience of our neighbours, we have to take into account that Ukraine's General Area Planning Scheme should be interactive, dynamic, instrumental. That's why I don't think this bill needs to be redrafted, anything can be fixed for the second reading, the more our MPs are co-authors of the bill. We'll support him in the first reading in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us proceed to the vote, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities on the General Planning Scheme for Ukraine's Areas (Registration No. 3337). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:21:28]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On ensuring the large-scale expansion of exports of goods (work, services) of Ukrainian origin through insurance, insurance and export lending" to ensure the efficient functioning of the Export Credit Agency (registration No. 3793). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:22:11]] For 244 Decision taken. Here's what I'm going to say, Boris Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u184	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! Four years ago, the Supreme Council passed the Act on the large-scale expansion of the export of goods (work) of Ukrainian origin, and so on, it's a very complex name, number 1792, which was envisaged to create a Export Credit Agency to stimulate the increase in domestic exports. Formally in 2017, legal preconditions were created in Ukraine for the introduction of one of the important public export support institutions, namely export support agencies, through insurance and risk prevention, safeguards operations under the ZED agreements of exporters, and export credit costs. The key advantages for business from the Agency’s activities were to facilitate access to finance and reduce risk levels to increase export volumes and exit to new markets. Yet, the effectiveness of the agency remains unsatisfactory. As the practice of applying Law 1792 of State Support Instruments has shown, which can be applied by the agency is imperfect and requires further development. The need to activate and strengthen the agency’s role in stimulating the increase in domestic exports has grown accordingly, which cannot be improved without legal principles and its functioning and updating of the State and Financial Support Mechanism. This is exactly what the bill proposed to you is for addressing issues and the operation of a specialized export support institution, the Export Credit Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u185	Thank you. The word is given to a member of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Alona Ivanovni Skrum. Please, Alona Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u186	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on December 10, 2020, reviewed the bill. In fact, this bill is designed to better regulate the activities of the so-called Export Credit Agency and provide more opportunities to stimulate our exports to entrepreneurs and to go to other markets. Let me tell you some stories so we can understand what this bill is for. In fact, the Export Credit Agency was to be created in 2016 in accordance with the adopted law. It was created by the Cabinet of Ministers in 2018, but unfortunately, to date it has been effective and, let's just say, it can't work properly. It can't work in this number, because we don't have enough money and money to support and insure exporters to go to foreign markets, and not enough legislation. That's why this bill has been drafted by a lot of colleagues, specifically to regulate better mechanisms and insurance, and to help in the risk insurance of the Export Credit Agency, and to expand the potential amount of money for this activity, and to provide more mechanisms to actually stimulate our exports to the development of our economy. The bill contains comments from the scientific and scientific administration. We also got to know these comments on the committee. We believe that such comments can be supported during the second reading of the bill. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine also supports the bill in its letter with further work. In view of the above, therefore, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft law be adopted as a basis. We also request that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax and Customs should work out the draft law in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules. Thank you, colleagues. Please support the base.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u187	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u188	Please pass the word to Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u189	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u190	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the drafters of this bill. He is really good, the changes are right, but they are incomplete and explain why. If we look at the positive, we see an extension of the export credit agency's powers, export factoring insurance, corporate governance is organized, investment is only afraid of non-commercial risks, state aid is offered as State guarantees to meet debt obligations and we can continue with the corresponding positives. At the same time, I want to say that the conclusion of the GNEU that we've been talking about today, even though some issues are not correct, they are regulated between the first and the second readings. There are several differences that cannot be resolved between the first and the second readings. The increase in statutory capital requires financial and economic justification. And when we're looking at the Ministry of Finance making observations about the sources of the origin of the funds, the budget committee has not supported the bill, and the Tax and Customs Committee, respectively, has made substantial remarks that have an impact. And the main thing is the Ukrainian Employers' Federation. I had a personal conversation with management, and they made it clear that making the proposed changes to article 8 of the law, which provides for the expansion of the support that ESA can provide for any goods, services and, including raw materials, and here they have not been able to support the bill today. There are two approaches. The first approach is to support and not do everything for the second reading. The second approach is that we can work out and this bill is necessary. We'll stick to the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u191	National Deputy Ionushas Sergey Konstantinovich, "Sergeant of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u192	Please pass the word to Natalus, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u193	Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u194	Thank you, Your Honor. A very thorough report was given to both the speaking committee and the financial committee. So I'm just going to complement where we are right now when we start the Export Credit Agency, where the institution is at. Alexander Romanishin, Deputy Minister of Economics, is present. I am very grateful to him and to Mr. Petrashk's professional minister for the fact that it seems that from month to month the Export Credit Agency will actually start completely. Last week we completed the formation and selection of the Supervisory Board. We managed to do this, despite the fact that since 2016 this process has been launched and that we have never been able to agree. Our call with the active ministry has ended, and no one will be ashamed of this oversight council. And in the coming weeks, we are really waiting for an increase in the statutory capital of the Export Credit Agency, which will allow it to cooperate fully and effectively with exporters, to secure their international contracts, and thus to create and establish a truly effective instrument for the expansion of Ukrainian production abroad. So it's a big request to support, because this bill and the full-time job of the Export Credit Agency are really awaiting all the Ukrainian manufacturers who want to export our Ukrainian goods abroad and get foreign currency here in Ukraine. Thank you, colleagues. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u195	Please, National Deputy Polackov Anton Eduardoovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u196	Please pass the word to Anna Speedhod. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u197	Please, Anna Speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u198	The MP's Party for the Future is not ready to support this bill in the first reading, because it has a number of shortcomings. First, the proposed definition of export factoring as an operation does not correspond to the definition of factoring as a contract under article 1077 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. Next. The definition of export factoring is not in line with the Convention on International Factoring, which regulates the issue of international factoring in the development of international trade. Exclusion from the law of many regulations that define countless terms is not in line with the preamble to the Ukrainian Insurance Act, which does not extend to the Export Credit Agency, whose activities are regulated by this law that we are talking about. Next. Now a colleague has just said that the statutory capital will be increased. It's a state-owned enterprise. What will increase statutory capital to 2 billion? At the expense of the state budget? So to give people subsidies, we don't have any money. We don't have the money to give people the price of gas, and to increase the statute fund of ESA, we have the money. Very strange position, very strange politics. You know, first you have to take care of people, then you have to take care of certain schemes and businesses that you all have to protect. That is why we will not uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u199	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u200	The position of the Fatherland faction is presented by Andry Nikolayenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u201	Andrew Ivanovich Nikolayenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, I believe that Ukrainian industrialists, Ukrainian businesses need support and support from the state if we want to go to external markets. What has not worked so far is inefficiency on the part of the state, incoherence in politics, and clearly needs to be put to work. The law is not ideal, it will have to be worked out, but it is still a step forward, so we will support it. But now I want to talk about something else. We're now discussing the expansion of Ukrainian goods. People are freezing under the Supreme Council in the morning, and they're freezing to death, you know what the question is? Because of the already created Ukrainian export companies that are still working today, they are being destroyed by the Ukrainian law enforcement system. Because one official recognized by the Ukrainian court as a corrupter, Mr. Sitnik, began a war with one industrialist and entrepreneur. And there are thousands of Ukrainians working in the agrarian sector, including exports that we want to support, who are losing jobs. So what we need to understand is more important: personal vendettas or conflicts between officials and businessmen, or the tens of thousands of jobs that Ukraine loses today because of this nonsense? So I'm sure that Ukraine is a powerful export-oriented state, especially companies that are built from scratch, and where Ukrainian positions are like oil, like in the oil industry, like in the poultry industry. Today, eggs were placed and handed to all. So so that you don't get thrown at them and have them on every table in Ukraine, we have to support this kind of production. And shame to those, especially the right-holders, who destroy them. Therefore, exports need to be maintained, and Tiny needs to be changed. That's the position. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u203	The motive is Coltunovich, the Ironborn. Then we go to the vote. Please. Now I'll see if there's no Trust. It wasn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u204	Thank you, Mr. Head. With all due respect to the rapporteur and the committee representatives, I would like to point out that the problem in question does not solve the issue of export expansion in depth. Two billion seem to give, much or little, looking at what basis of comparison. For example, President Zelensky imposed sanctions on Chinese companies, a 14 billion - dollar trade with China. One step is negative 14, and then we put it on the 2nd. The free trade agreement with the European Union is a zero tax since this year on wine and wine. Our producers are actually losing their internal market, not just the market. So our wish to you is that you first have to look at the conditions and areas of free trade with the EU, and we have the opportunity to do so, to deepen our cooperation with the BRICS countries. Of course, we have the most unfavourable conditions within the World Trade Organization. That's where you can export goods to external markets, not through these mechanisms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u205	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, I'm sure there will be no person in this room who won't support Ukrainian exports. It's our job to make the economy grow. But I want to draw attention to a very interesting fact. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, they were now acting as at least three opposition factions and groups and pointing to the same fact: that the Ministry of Finance in black and white would write that they were not supporting this bill. And by the way, that's a very good point. They're saying that to implement this bill, you have to find 2 billion dollars. If you have too much money, let us, indeed, decide together what to spend it on: to increase the statute of a new agency or really to help our teachers, doctors. So I would very much like to have the Minister of Finance in bed right now and present my position. And then the national MPs would decide how to vote for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u207	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Ah, Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u208	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, as the head of the "Trust" task force, Oleg Kulinic, has pointed out, we will certainly support all sectors of small, medium and large business. We will support both agrarians, and the main thing is to support people today. From export comes the currency today, enters the state. And that's why the state lives. So we need to support this bill and still take care of small, medium and large businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u209	Ready to vote? Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take account of the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Provision of Large-Scale Expansion of Exports of Goods (Working, Services) by Insurance, Guaranteeing and Costing Export Credits" on ensuring the effective functioning of the Export Credit Agency (Registration No. 3793). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:40:05]] For 237 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Ordinance on Measures for the Implementation of the Electronic Sheet Register (registration number 4243). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:40:40]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Marchenko Ludmila Ivanovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, since 2009, the process of creating a single e-registration of invalidity sheets has been under way. Decision No. 999 of the Ministers of Ukraine defines the register as a system for storing, storing and using information about the invoices issued. The Ukrainian Pension Fund, the Ministry of Health and the National Health Service of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund were tasked with providing information and communication systems by September 1, 2019. These assignments, however, are constantly being receptive. As a result, the Fund is unable to fully verify the issue of invalidity certificates because of the lack of access to information on these insured persons from the electronic health system. The draft regulation proposes to provide the Cabinet of Ministers with a number of errands to ensure the functioning of the E-registration of invalidity sheets in the near term, as well as to carry out audits of the efficiency of the use of the funds allocated for the project. This will speed up the implementation of the E-registration of invalidity certificates and ensure adequate social protection for insured persons. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u211	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights Committee, Anatoly Dmitrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, on December 9, 2020, the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights discussed a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the measures taken to establish an e-registration of invalidity certificates submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies of Tretlyakow, Tkachenk, Strunuevich and others. The draft regulation was introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to ensure the functioning of the E-registration of incapacity sheets in the near term, as well as the audit and efficiency of the use of funds allocated for its implementation. The implementation of the draft regulation will not require amendments to other legislative acts, nor will it require additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine. The adoption of this draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine will facilitate the use of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, other relevant central executive authorities and the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund for the implementation of the Electronic Register of Incapacity Leaves and for the provision of independent social protection for insured persons. As a result of the consideration of the draft decree, take it as a basis and as a whole, taking into account such proposals. Paragraph 1-3 reads as follows: "Recommend to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take steps to accelerate the development and amendment of relevant legislation with a view to implementing the Electronic Register of Invalidity Leaves. Bills to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine are designed to ensure the information interaction of the electronic health system from the Electronic Register of Invalidity Leaves." At the same time, in view of the timing of the implementation of the recommendations set out in the draft regulation, as well as of the Committee's recommendations, I propose to set real deadlines – April 2021, and to change the words and figures "February 15" to "March 1st", "February 1st" to "February 15th" respectively. Please support with this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u213	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Is there a need? Then I ask you to sign up: two in, two in, against whoever you want. But only by discussing this issue, not by the political situation in the country at all, do you know who I'm talking to. Please. The word is given to Taras Ivanovich Batenka. Please, Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u214	Please give the floor to a colleague of the people's deputies Irina Konstankevitch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u215	Irina Konstanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u216	Dear colleagues! The Future Group, of course, will support this decision, because we think, of course, that in today's electronic civilised society there should have been such an electronic register a long time ago. Unfortunately, time has gone a long way and a lot of money has been spent, and many opportunities have been lost. So our mission and our task right now are to support this determination, but we're really in pain for this to really happen, so that it's not a pyar action or a populist action, but an effective, effective and successful one. So thank you for the determination and, hopefully, the result.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u217	Thank you. The word is given to the people's deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u218	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Suffrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u219	Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u220	Thank you. Dear Mr. First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Of course, we will talk about employment, nothing else. Where are the 500,000 jobs, and where are the customs revenues? Well, we've overcome smuggling, there's got to be an extra 100 billion, Mr. Danielov, I can see it's getting worse. So the question is, where's 100 billion dollars of extra revenue? And there is a more pressing question that arose that night. In fact, 1 thousand 500 families today, the president threw them into the street without being able to work. Work on what? Including the journalistic investigation, where the money that was taken from our people's health is missing from the Health Foundation on the road. True, today we spend more than half a billion dollars on roads than on the entire health - care system under the threat of COVID, with state guarantees. That is why today we are firmly opposed to what is happening in this room: against the wayward, against the Constitution, against the abuse of the Constitution, and against the holy right of our citizens to obtain information. Isn't it nice that journalists find corruption in the actions of the new government? And you think if you shut their mouths, corruption will disappear, no one will know about it? No, they'll know. But you know, the image of how the President treats his citizens today is going to be even greater, and the rating of that is going to be zero, and you're going to see it in the next few days. And what you're doing today is a crime against citizens and a crime against Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u221	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Cimbaluk, I remember. Chess. Then we go to the vote. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u222	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, the presidency, the colleagues! Regarding the draft Ordinance on the Electronic Accounting of Invalidity Leaves, there was a discussion on the Committee on Social Policy, the protection of veterans’ rights. I was surprised by the position of the Cabinet of Ministers, including the Ministry of Health, which has been dragging and dragging the process away. By the way, this is the implementation of a law that was passed by the Supreme Council of the previous calling back in 2014. Then there was an appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers within six months to develop a position and finally run the process. Indeed, electronic accounting is needed, making it impossible for the corruption elements that are involved in this process to simplify the work of all: both doctors and representatives of the Social Security Fund. We will vote in favour, but we ask the Cabinet of Ministers to implement the ruling in full measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u223	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u224	Sergey Shahov, trust MP. Dear colleagues, of course, need to maintain electronic documentation, but I would like to turn to the following. Why in Donbas today, where there is a war in Lugansk, Donetsk, and throughout the country, 90 percent of the villages, villages, districts, and now the OTG Internet? When will Ukraine come out of the Stone Age and work as a civilized world in Asia, Europe, America? We long for Europe, why we live as we do today. In one place? Please tell me, when will the Ministry of Information pay attention to all these problems that are in place? There's no Internet, what's the electronic circulation of documents? That's why we're calling from the whole group to the Minister of Information to immediately pay attention: first, to Donbas, where the war is going, by the way, to the whole of Ukraine. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-02-03-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Ordinance on Measures for the Establishment of an E-Registration of Invalidity Letters (Registration No. 4243). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:52:02]] For 315 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have a full list of drafts that are proposed for further work. If there is no objection, we can vote to unlock this process. Bill (Registration No. 1193) Is there no objection? I am voting for a motion to refer to a committee for the re-reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to bring them into line with European Union legislation on the transport of dangerous goods (registration No. 1193-1). Ready to vote? To read again. Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:53:16]] For 319 Decision taken. Next bill (registration no. 2201). I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative to amend the draft Law on Road Traffic to create the right of citizens to be admitted to the examination, to manage transport vehicles and to increase the level of training of drivers (registration No. 2201). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:54:03]] For 322 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Certain Issues of Traffic Control in the Streets and Roads of Cities and Other Populations (Registration No. 2353). Please support and vote. [[13:54:40]] For 317 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject of the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Road Finance Sources for additional sources of filling of territorial road funds (registration No. 2779). Please support and vote. [[13:55:14]] For the 320. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law on Road Traffic on the implementation of European Union legislation on the order of admission to traffic control (registration No. 3569). Please support and vote. [[13:55:53]] For the 320. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to finalize the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act (registration number 3617). Please support and vote. [[13:56:29]] For the 320. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to finalize the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act on the reform of the passenger transport system, taking into account the experience of the member countries of the European Union (Registration No. 3870). Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:57:05]] For 322 Decision taken. Next bill, 3921. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject of the legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Road Finance Sources for the Application of the Road Subsidy (Registration No. 3921). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:57:49]] For 318 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 227, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 23, "Fatherhood" – 14, "For the Future" – 11, "Voice" – 17, "Trust" – 15, "non-factional" – 11. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. Thank you, Your Honor.
