ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u1	In connection with the requirement of 153 Ukrainian national deputies and according to part of the eighth article (please do not depart) of the 19th Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to review the draft Order (Registration No. 5380) on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Congress of the United States of America regarding the granting of Ukraine bilateral status as the main ally of the United States outside NATO. Dear colleagues, prepare for registration. I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left, or the pro button. Please register. [[13:54:38]] There are 261 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we had a lot of information in the media yesterday. I would like to remind you that this next session is called for by 153 Ukrainian national deputies. It is especially strange to hear from the National Deputies why we are here today when they have signed these signed letters on their own. You, if you sign, you see what you're signing, so there's no misunderstanding. There's been an application for a break with a replacement for the performance. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, you all know that the occupation of Crimea is now carrying out repeated repression against our citizens, against the representatives of the Crimean Tatar people. Since September 3, the so-called Ministry of Internal Affairs has been conducting searches and is now under arrest the First Deputy Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people of Nariman Jellalov, as well as other representatives of the Crimean Tatar people. It's unacceptable. That is why our colleagues register a decree condemning once again the occupation of Crimea, reminding that Crimea is Ukraine, which condemns the occupation of political repression on our behalf, from the parliament of Ukraine to the UN, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, NATO and other international partners with the request to support us in our struggle, asking us to carry out a declaration signed on August 23 on the Crimea Platform, asking once again that in the modern world no political repression is possible. This decision has a great number, in this session it's 007. We hope that our international partners will also act decisively and directly as a well - known film agent. And now I'm asking both the committee and the head of Parliament to speed up the consideration of this decree, to consider it this week, and maybe we voted this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u3	The arrest of Nariman Jjellalov is a political persecution, and it's also ethnic, because everyone knows that he is worthy of a Crimean Tatar, a Ukrainian who is a symbol of the resistance to the occupation of Crimea. And I believe that, apart from such a determination, we must also do everything possible to ensure that our law enforcement agencies, the SBA, and the PNDP identify those involved in persecuting and detaining Nariman, such as Nariman, and we must impose sanctions against such people. There's a Magnetic Act, for example, in different countries, we have to have our own act. And this could be the act of Nariman Jellalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u4	In the morning, the cleansing in Crimea continued. And today another representative of Majlis, the local Majlis, was taken. All our decisions are very much ahead in Crimea. And that gives hope that this crime, the crimes, will be punished. Therefore, I ask you to do so this week and to accept this decision on Nariman Jellalov and other political prisoners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u5	Thank you. I understand that this question will be considered, yes, on the committee today. Let's move on to the agenda. You have been invited to consider the draft Order to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Congress of the United States of America on granting Ukraine bilateral status as the main ally of the United States outside NATO (register No. 5380). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:59:12]] For-182 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Honcharenko Aleksyyyyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u6	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear colleagues, I want to thank you first. We literally voted an hour ago on a draft decree to refer the Supreme Council to international institutions condemning elections in the Russian Federation in occupied Ukrainian territory. And we've demonstrated the connection. Except for one faction, the fifth column of the Kremlin here, we all voted in favour. And I would very much like to see this reunion now. When we were collecting signatures, we collected 153 signatures, and again all the factions, all the factions and groups, except one, were among those who signed for the next session, so now we're doing it. What are we talking about? The point is that today, in Ukraine, our main challenge is security. Of course, our strategic response is NATO membership, we're going to do that, it's in principle. But it's also obvious that tomorrow or after tomorrow, or even after a year or two, we won't become NATO members, it's also absolutely obvious. So in the medium term, our answer to the security challenges is NATO, and in the short term, we have to move from the status of the US strategic partner to the status of the US ally, because obviously any diplomat who is above that status, and this status gives a lot more. For example, it allows for the deployment of an American military contingent in the territory of the US allied country. Tell me -- well, of course, for the consent of this country -- would you please tell me, if the U.S. Marines were in Mariupola right now, and the American Essence in Odessa, would you like to lick Putin? [[Next address in foreign language]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u7	The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u8	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation today considered a draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Congress of the United States of America on granting Ukraine bilateral status as the main ally of the United States outside NATO (MNA). During the consideration of the bill, the author of the legislative act, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, and the comments of members of the committee were heard. Giving the United States the status of a major non-NATO ally formalizes the priority of building cooperation in separate directions. Such as participating in joint defence initiatives, conducting military and space research, participating in separate anti-terrorist activities, providing individual weapons, and so on. At the same time, the granting of US status as the main non-NATO ally does not provide security guarantees for protecting partners in the event of an armed attack on them. Ukraine is a European state that, at the legislative, constitutional level, has clearly defined its Euro-Atlantic course and has set the goal of full NATO membership. Since 1989, the status of the US’s main ally outside NATO has been granted to 18 nations in the world who have failed to determine the goal or cannot acquire NATO membership. In view of the importance of ensuring the consistency of Ukraine's foreign policy course and of focusing on the efforts of all branches of government to achieve the strategic goal enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine, the acquisition of full membership in the North Atlantic Alliance is now an important issue of maximizing the potential of NATO partner status with expanded capabilities that Ukraine received in 2020. Therefore, according to the committee’s deliberations, the bill did not receive the necessary number of members of the committee to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u9	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich. Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u10	My dear colleagues, I think there's been a devaluation of such conversions and of the Supreme Council's rulings, perhaps we're already champions of the world in this. There are three things you should say about this question. First. The address of the address to be addressed is not correctly defined. The decision to grant such status is not made by the United States Congress. Secondly, this appeal and this status do not provide security assurances to Ukraine. Such guarantees can provide a mutual defence agreement that is not available in Ukraine. And the third is that accepting such an appeal or receiving such a status, or striving, may not help, or may harm Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic integration. I want to remind you that in the 17th year, the Supreme Council had already received a similar appeal. Ukraine did not get that status, and Ukraine did not get much closer to NATO. At the same time, I think that some tradition has come to the conclusion that the Supreme Council accepts a symbolic address, as it were supposed to say, to express such a expectation. Diplomats say it takes two to tango. One wish, if expressed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, does not mean that the other party is ready to accept it. So I think anyone can consider what happened and what will happen. But as a systematic problem, I'm paying attention, there's a devaluation of the rulings and references of the Supreme Council to the parliaments of other countries. When we make such decisions, nothing happens after that, and we make such decisions with packs again. Everyone has to consider the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u11	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, and those who speak in favour, and those who speak out against them, are a little manipulative with concepts and facts. Let me explain. In fact, there is no limit for a country that has MNA status to go to NATO. But, really, for those of us who don't want to see us in NATO, that's going to be an unnecessary argument. The other one. The discussion that the defence agreement that we have, and that it is only a framework, or the status of NATO's extended partner, offers more opportunities than the MNA status, is also not true. I'm giving you an example. Australia, which has MNA status, a defence agreement and the status of NATO's extended partner. One does not forbid the other. Third. Those who say that this conversation is inappropriate, I remind you that these signatures, and I, by the way, signed this signed letter, this signed letter came out in May, when unfortunately our supreme authority was swinging, not understanding where it was going: we need a VAT, we need a NATO without a VAT, we need a special status or something. Now, thank God, at least in words our authority does not waver. Four. The fact that MNA provides a narrower framework than a defense agreement is also not true. MNNA provides a wider plank. But, and that's the main thing, no one's going to give us that status. The Americans have given us an understanding of this, unfortunately, quite clearly, although unofficially. There was this legendary speaker of the Supreme Council who had a favorite saying, "Why stick it like it doesn't." It doesn't climb, unfortunately. And the last. The example of Afghanistan is also inappropriate. Because I remind you that Afghanistan insisted on MNA status, but the United States didn't want to give it away. They were granted only because they needed legal official grounds for military contingents and budget funding for their military units in Afghanistan. And the last. No one will fight for us. We're going to be in NATO, we're going to get MNA status -- we have to take care of ourselves and do everything we can to help all of our partners, including the United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u13	Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, but we call the United States so often that we risk our letters being in the spam folder. That is what happens when you ask very often for what they cannot give you. I'll remind you that we've forgotten to ask our own citizens where they want to go, whether they want to go to NATO at all. But we have a point in the Constitution that we are going to NATO. Well, if Parliament has determined that we're going to NATO, maybe it's time to stop this mess and do business, really do business. I'll remind you two more things. First. I'm sorry, but after what we saw in Afghanistan, the status of the main ally of the United States outside of NATO, he was a bit of a mess. Someone's going to say that we're not Afghanistan, we're going to do better in Israel, and then you're going to have to become Israel first, and then you're going to have to get results, like in Israel. That's the first one. The other one. I'll remind you that foreign policy is determined by the President of the country, so I propose that the President be given the opportunity to determine this course and maintain this course without deviated from it. I'll vote yellow. I also propose that you vote yellow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u15	Eugene Nina Petrovna. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, this is actually a very important discussion. While welcoming Mr. Zelensky's encounter with Byden, we are all disappointed that Ukraine has not received any security assurances. A framework agreement was signed, not a security agreement. And we thank the United States for $60 million in defense, but that does not meet the challenges facing Ukraine today. In fact, in the 17th year, the Supreme Council voted in a similar way, and it did not at all stop us from going to Euro-integration, nor to a special partnership with the United States. On the contrary, after that, we got the same javelins, and before that, we weren't even given any, if you'll excuse me, helmets and vests, saying that these are dual-dedication goods. This is the case with Afghanistan, and it's completely inappropriate. The Ukrainian army is motivated, and it is protecting the country today, not running. But when we hear that in Afghanistan, the United States has given 200 units only helicopters and planes, and we, you know, couldn't get Javelins by the age of 18, it's a cause for concern. We regret that it was only today that Zelensky and Ko heard the signals and our political team, making time. Because when Zelensky was at the peak of his political glory, including the support of society and the world, he was to run to the NATO summit in London and demand VAT. And then it would be heard more, not today, when, unfortunately, the United States gives even less signals than it did in the 19th year. We're with you today at the 19th year level of our relationship. So this address of ours will only increase the signal to the United States that we are protecting democracy, we are protecting principles. And the country that signed the Budapest Memorandum is going to help us do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-08-m1.u17	All those who wish to speak? Let's move on to the vote. You heard the committee's position, you heard the public's position and the warnings of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and embassies, which were also publicly noted, that's why. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Congress of the United States of America concerning the granting to Ukraine the bilateral status of the main ally of the United States outside NATO (register No. 5380). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:13:14]] For-24 The decision is not taken. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you.
