ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Good morning, members of the media! Welcome to the walls of the Supreme Council. Please take your seats, get ready to register and start working. Are you ready to register? I remind you that registration takes place by clicking on the green button on the first left or the "Z" button. Please register. [[10:00:28]] There are 267 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today we have the noun Alexander Ivanovich Kovalov. I welcome you from me, from my colleagues, I wish you strength, success, new victories! [[Applause]] The first question of the day project is a draft decree on the renaming of the village. From the procedure Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Following Koltunović’s presentation, we move on to the draft Order on the Rename of the Village of the Bulgarian Berdian Region of Zaporozhye (registration No. 5075). Cologne from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u2	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, we already voted on a number of renaming orders yesterday. Today, we will also have two or three decrees after the change. But I have a request for a reporter who will report now, and a representative of the committee, here's the question. Because the renaming took place at 16, at 15, at 17. Now we're actually doing a renaming. We're interested and we want to hear figures on how much this is going to cost: (a) for the local budgets, for the state budget, for the citizens of Ukraine. And it's very important that every reporter now hears these numbers. Because it's not easy so we took and voted to change the name. This is followed by specific financial resources. Please take this into account when considering draft regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u3	Thank you. Question 5075 needs to be discussed? Then it is suggested that we do this in a reduced procedure. I'll put up an appropriate motion for a vote. Please support and vote. [[10:02:33]] For 228 Decision taken. The head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development, Bezhin Vitali Juriovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u4	Good afternoon, Your Honor. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. As our colleague Alexander correctly pointed out, it is a renaissance. Because now we're talking about naming the village of Bulgaria's Berdian district of Zaporozhye to the village of Sofia, which has been renamed within decommunization in its own time, but because of the lack of acceptance by the entire local population, it's being initiated by the local community, and it's actually going through all the procedures. This decision is now supported by both the village community and the district councils. And it's suggested that we adopt the name Sofia. I'm going to point out right now that this isn't the name Kolarovka, which was a Soviet, completely new name. Hence, there is no violation of the Law on Decommunization. The committee also agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the village of Bulgaria be renamed the Berdian district of Zaporozhye to the village of Sofia be renamed as a whole. As for the question of colleagues. I think this is where we rely on the position of citizens. And really, we're going to invite data to the Zaporozky District Council for financial expenses. But I'm sure you wouldn't have to bear extra expenses if there wasn't a thoughtless renaming of the last time you weren't asked during the decommunization in the public from which they wanted to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u5	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Klochko Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u6	Paul Melnik please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u7	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, dear Ukrainians! Today, in the village of Bulgaria’s Zaporozhye region, until 2016, there was a situation in Kolarov, where the vast majority of the locals did not accept the new name of this inhabited area. The village was founded in 1862 and is now home to about 1,000,200 inhabitants. I will note that in the framework of the decommunization of the village during the discussion of the draft decision on the renaming of the site, the locals were definitely against the name "Bolgarka". They almost immediately began to seek a renaming and stopped at the name "Sofiyovka". The above - mentioned question has been raised repeatedly in the media. And according to the head of the permanent commission on local self-government and the administrative and territorial system, many residents of the territory have taken a negative view of the new name, viewing it as unfavorable, even offensive. So in the congregations of the village of Kolarovka, they decided to rename the village to Sofia. Above all, during public hearings, more than 70 percent of the population supported the change. And I would like to point out that the Zaporozhye District Council also supported the concern of the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the renaming of the village of Bulgaria to Sofia. During its meeting, the Committee on State Authorities, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and Urbanization supported the redesignation of the village of Bulgaria’s Berdian district of Zaporozhye to the village of Sofia. So I'm asking you, dear colleagues, to support the draft decision, because it's very important for the villagers. Let's rename Bulgaria to Sofia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u8	Wasilenko Lesia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u9	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u10	Iron? Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, surely the decision is important, and we will support it. But I'd like to know, what happened to our routine? Why is the third point a question that cannot be considered today? I may be wrong, but I think that, despite the fact that Mr. President's Rules of Procedure have become the main enemy for the economy, we are still working on it. There is a paragraph, 76 in paragraph 5, today only at 9:08 p.m. we received a report from the Head of Parliament. There's 12 extras, if I'm right. I don't know how colleagues like it, and we usually like to read documents that need to be voted on or not voted on. So I would very much like to refer to the presidency of the Supreme Council, considering that there is both the Head of Parliament and his deputies, and to see how we have this third paragraph? Is this a violation of the Rules? And if so, let those initiators of this paragraph come out and tell us that today we are dealing with a grave violation of the law with the question of the appeal of the Head of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u12	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u13	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I realize everyone's busy right now, but I want to draw attention to the naming issues that are also important. It's important because you and I are drawing a map of Ukraine right now. These are the names that will be on the map of Ukraine, and the map of Ukraine is the face of our country. Yesterday inadvertently, because of our carelessness, we removed a name that was more than half a thousand years old. Friends, it is not in vain that the Constitution of Ukraine refers the name of the population to the mandate of Parliament, because we have to take into account the position not only of the local community but also of the expert institutions. What is there to study such questions effectively and to give us reasonable conclusions so that we can adopt balanced and legitimate decisions. The law provides only three grounds for renaming: removal of repetitions, return of historical names, and decommunization. You do exactly the opposite: destroy historical names, like yesterday with the Marmuzovichs, return Communist names, multiply duplications. The Ukrainian Institute of National Memory informed a professional committee that, according to the law, a number of homogeneous geographical objects are not allowed within one area, and that Sofia is already in the Berdian region, and the village of Bulgaria has never been called Sofia. We can't be so insolent, and without any need to break the Geographical Names Act, it exists. It's strange that this should be explained here in Parliament. I urge you not to be ashamed of yourself or to support such decisions that undermine Ukraine's legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u14	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u15	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Please give the floor to the national deputy, Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u16	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, it is a pleasure to see you presiding today. Dear colleagues, in the course of the previous speaker. So now we're correcting your anti-communist mistakes when you people, without asking them, forced them to change their names, their own neighborhoods. Why is Sofia here before decommunization difficult to understand. But I want to repay a certain debt. Yesterday, Alexy from Peter Poshenko's Block accused me of direct broadcasting that I was afraid to ask Dusty why he received $72 million dividends from the Lipec factory in 2016. Mr. Alexia, I'm asking you all over the country. Peter, how did you do that? Peter Alexievich, where are you? It's gone again. Well, nothing. Dear colleagues, cynicism must be a limit. Yesterday there was an argument between two presidents who had more offshores. But after the Panamanian passport, I think the offshores should be kept quiet. And the last. You know, we're all responsible for our teams. Yesterday, I witnessed Alexi renounce his leader, Dusty. He said I'm not his representative, I'm a national MP. I've seen it before, I've seen Alexei give up Janukovich, so it's clear where your team is going. Dear colleagues, everyone has to be responsible for what he does. And you, Your Honor, will be responsible for what you want to do today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u18	All those who wish to speak? It's "Trust." It's motive. Then we go to the vote. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u19	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Of course, the procedure for renaming a populated item has its own process. So wanted by the community, there was a reference, yes, to the area, and now we're looking at it in the highest legislative body. And it doesn't have to be discussed that long. Instead, today we need to discuss what hurts most of the new communities in the country. They don't know how to buy gas for their schools, for their gardens, for hospitals. They don't know how to pay teachers because they don't have enough education subsidies, tens of millions of dollars in communities in many areas. This needs to be addressed by the government, and this needs to be discussed in this room. How to prepare the hospitals, since a new wave of Coronavirus is approaching. This is what today, in October, should be discussed in the Supreme Council Hall, and the renaming should of course be automatically voted on, because that is what communities want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u20	Ready to vote? I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Order on the Rename of the Village of Bulgaria in the Province of Zaporozhye (Registration No. 5075). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:14:18]] For 278 Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Order on the name of the village of Old Curtorian Stone-Cashri district of Volin district (registration number 5077). Needed Discussion? It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:14:56]] For 247 Decision taken. The head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and Bezhin Vitaly Yuriovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u21	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues are actually surprised that we're having a discussion here, because there's no decommunization. In fact, the Wallin County Council addressed the Supreme Council with a reference to the name of the village of Old Curtorian Stone-Cashri district of Volin County to the village of Chartorijsk. In fact, the name is based on what the corresponding references have found in the 1100s 'Pavist of the Past Years'. The question of renaming the village is supported both by the territorial community and at the district level and at the district level. As a result of the Committee's consideration, it concluded: recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the village of the Old Cortorian Kamen-Kashri district of Volinsk should be renamed as a village of Chartoriask, by adopting an appropriate draft decision as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u22	Please sign up: two in, two in, and no in, from the MP factions and groups. Grandma.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u24	Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! Larissa Bilozer, Trust Group, Winnitzkin. It's important that we finally get our hands on these issues. Some may feel that this is irrelevant, but the communities were really waiting yesterday for Winnitzkin (Ilinka) to finally change the boundaries to hand over the land and the names. People have been waiting for these decisions for years. But what I'd like to say is that it's really nothing compared to what's waiting for the country because of prices and energy. I get a call from communities in the district (both Tomaspel and Chargorod and Krasnopelka) and they say that they're now going out to buy gas for education, for schools, for gardens, and even for 35 bracelets, suppliers don't come out. And the situation is so critical that it threatens the beginning of the heating season throughout Ukraine. We are here, and the Prime Minister assures us that everything will be fine. But how can it be good? If, for example, since October 8, all educational establishments and the largest garden where 200 children go in Tomaspol simply because the community refuses to renegotiate and simply terminates contracts illegally with the community. So I would still like to go to the government and call on the Cabinet of Ministers to take immediate action and plan the allocation of subsidies from the state budget to pay for natural gas for education, medicine and community culture institutions, because we're actually going to have a real collapse in places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u26	Ustenko Aleksei Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u27	Good afternoon. Please pass the word to Alexander Kachuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u28	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u29	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear colleagues, we are now in the walls of Parliament and we have been voting for hours on the question of changing the names of all our cities, the villages. But I think this issue should be resolved in a local referendum. So let's think about how we can make a decision on a national scale in Parliament's walls, which is to put it in place. Because, for example, we discussed the previous question, it was about people not agreeing with the name they were assigned, sorry about the non-parliamentary word, parliament. So let's ask the question of putting the local referendum in order of the day. We're going to make the right changes so that people can decide for themselves what they're going to call the village, the city where they're going to live. I would also like to urge the entire Parliament to sign the decree proposed by the National Health Committee on quarantine restrictions in Parliament. I'd like to put on all the parliamentarians of the mask, the vaccine. Dmitri Alexanderovich, this also applies to you, please wear a mask. Did you get the vaccine, by the way? You made comments yesterday, so I think you should show the whole Parliament and all Ukrainian citizens how to apply quarantine requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u30	Thank you. There's a vaccine from a fairy tale. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u31	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! You know, our political power "The Opposition Platform for Life" always supports those decisions that contain the question of renaming, if they're smart really decisions, the question of changing boundaries if they really agree with the communities. But you know, I look at this order of the day, it's very funny. We have a few names there, and then most of them are going to change the head of the Supreme Council. It's like an anecdote. Who formed this order of the day? Dmitri Alexanderovich, and I took the floor, you know why? Because I paid attention when you urged us to vote on the previous question, you said, "Please support and vote." You know, habit is a second nature. I'm asking you to pay attention to this by most of your colleagues. You said that a few thousand times, not one thousand times for your colleagues, and now they're going to move you out of your position. I wish you luck. And I think that what is happening in Parliament right now is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u32	Thank you. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Windman? Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u33	Please give the word of Vátrovitch Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, I am surprised that not only the deputies, but even the entire head of Mr. Bezgin's subcommittee, I have to remind you that it is the Geographical Names Act that regulates the assignment of geographical names in Ukraine. And your appeal to what violates or violates the Decommunization Act here is nothing. By our previous vote, we brutally violated the Geographic Names Act. Now for the Curtorian. This is about erasing our story again. This is a population of almost a thousand years. As noted in the conclusion of the Institute of Ukrainian Language, sometimes it is worth listening to professional institutions that the form of Charteris a secondary and derivative of the Churches, since it originated on Polish soil. The name of the settlement of Old Curtoria is Ukrainian and is derived from the Ukrainian toponyma of the Cortoria. You cannot destroy the toponymic heritage simply because some village head wanted to rename a thousand - year - old population. The historian of Old Curtoria describes the manipulation of a particular village head. With full responsibility, I claim that the appeal of the school’s labour force is false and written, as in Communist times, as a hindrance. The head of the village did not even attempt to organize a discussion on the rendition of citizens in the congregations or in any of the working groups. Once again, a local history teacher, a landslide. I'm asking you, national MPs, only one request. "Put aside party ambitions or interests when considering naming Old Curtoria. Please act in harmony with the command of your conscience. I urge you not to give the ignorant, the initiators of the renaming, the mockery of the historic Ukrainian name of the Curtoria." Let us also listen to local historians. Let's not break the laws, let's not erase our thousand-year history from the map of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order on the Rename of the Village of the Old Curtoria Stone-Cashri district of Volin County (Registration No. 5077). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[10:24:42]] For 297 Decision taken. I see. Wait. We have colleagues present today from a group of friendships with the Knight of the State of Israel. I'd like to say hello to our friends. [[Applause]] Thank you. Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I have a proposal in line with part two and part five of article 19 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to change the working order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. That's it: work until the end of the debate on question 5079, cancel the break from 12 to 12:30. In case we don't have time to consider question 5079 by 16:00, we'll start the next session immediately after work, after considering this question 5079.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u37	Dear colleague, I highly recommend that you prepare better, you can't carry an extra session, nor a session at all. You're a constitutionalist. This time. You can't move a meeting either. So I suggest you put in a piece of your proposal, if you don't mind, before you consider canceling the break from 12 to 12:30. You'll make it, don't worry. Ready to vote? Is there no objection? None. Ready to vote? Please support and vote, colleagues. [[10:26:51]] For 248 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u38	Next question of the agenda. But before we move on to it, in accordance with article 31 prim, 37 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine publicly announce a conflict of interest when considering the withdrawal by the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from office. I mean, I'm not going to vote on this. In accordance with article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council elects and withdraws the Supreme Council of Ukraine from office. On October 4, 2021, according to article 76 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, 175 Ukrainian national deputies proposed the withdrawal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Head of the Supreme Council, Dmitry Alexanderovitch Razumkov. On October 5, 2021, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to include in the agenda of the Supreme Council's day session the question of the recall by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, in office, at the same time as the Court of Auditors, to carry out a financial audit of the execution of the funds of the Supreme Council in the current year, and to consider these issues at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 7, 2021. On October 6, 2021, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to elect a Ukrainian national deputy, Danil Alexandrovich Hetmantsev, as chairman. You can't be in a plenary meeting. On this issue, you will guide him. Right? So it wasn't exactly right. The chairman on this issue is on. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we don't need to vote. Please continue to give the floor to Gethmansev Danil Alexanderovich. Danilo Alexandrovich, the rostrum will be taken. So it's from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u39	Thank you, Your Honor. Dmitri Aleksandrovitch may know that it is not convenient and likely impossible to hold a meeting with your back. So please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u40	There's another one, they could've taken it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u41	Mr. Alexanderovich, I would like to remind you, on occasion, that the chairman is giving the floor to this meeting. Also, before I go directly to this issue, I want to remind my colleagues, our distinguished colleagues, some of the provisions of the Rules that we all seem to have forgotten. And I would like today's session to go through in a normal atmosphere of respect for one another. Thus, according to article 51 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, in plenary meetings, a national MP should not interfere with the presentation or acceptance of the speech, the use of abusive speech, or obscene speech, or the use of unlawful action. If a national MP speaks abusively at the address of another national MP or MP, the chairman of a plenary meeting alerts the national MP or stops his speech. I'm asking no one to be offended. Please consult with the members of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs, and believe me, I will stop treating you and me with respect. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question. In accordance with article 77 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the next order of consideration is proposed. A report by a representative of the National Deputies, who initiated the withdrawal of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from office, up to 10 minutes, the response to questions from the National Deputies, up to 9 minutes, a report by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in this office, up to 30 minutes, responses from the Head of the Supreme Council to questions from the National Deputies, up to 9 minutes, statements from the MPs and groups, up to 21 minutes, statements from the National Deputies, up to 9 minutes. It takes 1 minute to answer each oral question and 2 minutes to answer it. Making a decision. Corresponding to the article. Arthur Gerasimov of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u42	Mr. Chairman, your honor, I have two questions. First. I ask that the speeches of the National Deputies increase to 12 minutes because the Rules require balanced statements by those who are in favour and opposed. And we already see here that 9 minutes is just three questions or three speeches, not four. That's the first one. And the second. Mr. Getmants, can't you explain that the journalists have written that you have a conflict of interest, because you have an assistant working, if I'm not mistaken, the wife of the First Vice-Spyer, who today, according to journalists, may be assigned to this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u43	Thank you, Arthur Vladimirovich. If I had a conflict of interest, you'd know about it from my statement. When it comes to your proposal, we will certainly put it to the vote after my vote, the vote of my proposal. In accordance with article 77 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, I place the voting procedure set out for the consideration of the matter. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:33:05]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question. The report is given to a representative of the National Deputies, who initiated the appeal of the Head of the Supreme Council, national deputy Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenka. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u44	Good morning, dear fellows! I'm going to address my faction most of the time, but I'm sure there's a lot of people in this room who will hear me and listen to my opposition colleagues. So, where did it all start two years ago? Two years ago, the Ukrainian people were actually in Parliament for the first time. Because before that we've been watching with you the cycle of power in nature, they've been turning into one another, people have been moving. But our generation has endured this for a long time, until we ourselves had to become a party of power to dramatically update the principles behind which the state should work. Most of us were non-profits, none of us was a national MP, it's important to understand. But someone already had political experience, and one of these people we chose to be the leader of our party list. Sadly, political experience has proved to be different. Sometimes it helps to work, and sometimes it increases the various manifestations that can be called political wickedness, political indifference, when people begin to speak one another, to do the other, and to have something third, not entirely understood and secret. With that, our Parliament's reforms, which we have been considering with you, colleagues from the "Serve of the People" began to be transformed into Parliament in the days of Vladimir Lithuania. When hypocrisy, wickedness, the use of double, triple standards began to become not only an everyday thing but also an object of trade with political opponents and simply with some people who wanted to influence parliament. Two years ago, we were the only ones who wanted to change for reform, take responsibility for the renewal of power, for the updating of the principles under which the authorities were to work. This was expected by 73 percent of us, and we were determined not to betray their trust. We were new politicians and we decided to remain people in this policy, which we wanted to humanize, to introduce democratic standards here. But when I say "we" now, I regret to have to say that not all of us. Someone chased after a long, corrupt ruble and left our faction. Someone is short Russian ruble, and there are people like that. Some have decided that their own political and even life’s ambitions are superior to command objectives and arrangements. I regret to note that this is also the case with our former head of the list and with our party. We must have the courage to say this to our electorate directly. Dmitri Alexanderovich, in my opinion, has deviated from the general principles and is no longer a member of our team, and accordingly cannot represent our party in such a high office. The Party and the electorate have numerous questions about the work of the Head of Parliament. Most of them are rhetorical, but I'm sure, Dmitri Alexanderovich, that in your manner you're inherently filigreely shaped, but not the fact that you're full of content, you're going to answer them. So let's start with your favorite subject: legality and regulation. How did it happen that the Supreme Council began working on the principle of friends and themselves — everything and enemies — of the Rules? Why were some committees drawn to conclusions faster and their laws always in order of the day, while other committees were literally rejected on the sidelines of parliamentary life? How does this relate to the committee heads or to the reforms that these committees offer or produce when they are on time for the country? Why was the Supreme Council’s Chief of Staff not appointed for 15 months? For 15 months, we have been living with the responsibility of being personally a strong opponent of the minister’s responsibilities, of which we had lists here with you, of the President’s veto, and so forth. Why can’t we assign c.o. Minister, but we can keep it 15 months ago. The head of the Supreme Council's apparatus? I have a question for you. About what you said yesterday about some blackmail attempts. Please, why didn't you report this to the law enforcement authorities? Next, if we are such a fan of the Rules, why is it that almost every day such a simple, basic rule that a statement on the issue of the agenda should refer to the subject of the agenda? Not to be overlooked by our colleagues in the mass media. Why didn't a year for journalists open up with COVID and suddenly open up the day before discussing your resignation? And a serious question. Why didn't you do almost anything to implement hundreds of pages of the RBM Reform Recommendations, particularly the Pet Cox Mission? And our cautious attempt to apply the special procedure for bearing 119 primes. You've been buried under some kind of misunderstanding, political bargaining, and so on. In the end, our Parliament has turned into a brake for reforming our course, for the course of the President and for what the whole country is waiting for. That's part one. You want to become a separate national politician, we've already learned that from your rhetoric yesterday, especially. We also have a few questions about national issues. True, we still don't really understand why you have a political platform. And we have, in our colleagues, a sincere surprise to support your active position by the pro-Russian media and the media associated with the so-called pro-European opposition. So we have prepared a series of questions that will help you to understand your future political career, and you will better understand why you and your constituents will better understand what you are for. So the first question is very simple. Is Victor Medvedchuk an enemy of Ukraine? Are the pro-Russian TV channels "112" are hostile to Ukraine, ZIK, NewsOne, the country website. UA? Are you Russian propagandist Anatoly Shari, your devoted fan on Facebook, by the way? Do Ukrainian smugglers, gas oligarchs, criminal drug users, such as Mr. Fuchs, harm Ukraine? If you're giving three yess to these questions, I have a fourth question right away. Why didn't you support the sanctions against all these above-mentioned individuals on the National Security and Defence Council? We know what kind of Ukraine we're building -- we're building a country that's strong enough to fight the enemy. And we're exactly in favour of Ukraine, which is going to defeat an external enemy in the form of an aggressor of the Russian Federation and an internal one in the form of a fifth column, oligarchs, poverty, corruption -- all those phenomena that we've been fighting and fighting together with you, by the way, in this Parliament for two years. So that we don't seem to be concerned about just the theme of the OR, we have a few more, as they say, cases. Let's mention the history of the constitutional Court of Ukraine of Electronic Declaration, which called into question not only the fight against corruption, but also the whole pro-European course of Ukraine, the visa-freeness, our world macro-financial assistance, and so on. I want to remind you that at the time the President was offered a quick answer, a quick attempt to bring the situation in order. Yes, it was, let's say, very active and very serious, but it was. And you've helped because you've turned the discussion into a very lengthy, lengthy process that's been going on for a year. And the return of responsibility for untimely and false declaration is in a fascinating quast and explaining to colleagues what is the difference between the deprivation and the restriction of will, the suggestions of different schemes, how to run away from it, and so on. I want to remind you that you have a full political responsibility because you've moderated all these processes, these working groups and so on. In conclusion, I would like to say one thing. We do not have such matters; we have tried not to do so in such discussions to make personal accusations. Yesterday we saw that you were trying to do this already. So here's the question of whether we can stay after this procedure, let's say, not in a normal relationship, as human, but simply so that it's not embarrassing to walk around the Supreme Council Hall. But I would like to remind you that these people who are here in this room, they trusted you for two years and trusted you every time you said, "please support and vote." But right now, we can't trust you with that. There's no trust in that. So we ask you to move into the hall and join us in listening to the next Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u45	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. People's deputies would like to sign up for a question to the reporter. Stefanisin's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u46	Good afternoon. Olga Stefanishin, “Justice. ” I have a question for the Speaker of the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. I want to pass on the word to Alexander Ustinovy then.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u47	Excuse me, you've already started the show. The word does not appear after the beginning of the talk. Next. Turn off the microphone, please. National MP Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u48	Sobolje, Fatherland. We have come to realize that in all the sins of the parliamentary majority of the "ministers of the people" is the fault of Razumkov. I have a question for you, Mr. Speaker. Please tell me why Medvedchuk, who has been sanctioned for treason, financing terrorism, is under house arrest if this sanction cannot be applied to such persons? Second question to you. Please tell me why you voted in favour of all the decisions you are now trying to accuse Parliament in general and the speaker. Question three. Please tell me, at what very moment are you personally, not someone else, and you have personally realized that Mr. Razumkov is not a member of your team?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u49	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. As always, good questions, except for the second. I didn't really understand what you meant by that. Maybe I'll come in later on in private, make it clear, 'cause I will. All decisions are what decisions? As for Medvedchuk, you know that we have an independent judiciary, and we have done a lot with you. It's very conscious that the back rows are laughing about it. We've done a lot of things for you to do. Yes, thank you. We've done a lot to you. We are grateful to the factions of Fatherland for their opposition to us in this matter, there have been many rights, ideas. Many have made it possible for judicial reform to take place, which was not initiated in the country for seven years. I think it'll be a little easier soon. And as for the last question, for me, I think for many of us, it was actually a showcase of the relationship and attitude to the question of the Oligarch Act, which is, you know, the red line for our faction. Because there has to be a command job here, because it's an unforgivable law. And we expected the speaker to be more supportive in this matter than sabotaging and using some incomprehensible regulatory culbits for his position. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u50	Thank you. Next up is National Deputy Koltunović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u51	Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." And when you disagreed with Mr. Speaker, when you voted with a financial and industrial group for tax evasion, 32 billion dollars, Ukrnafti? Maybe when Kernel was reduced from 20 percent to 14 percent? When were the bills and other oligarchy things voted on by the Metallurgy Interpipe? When the Privat was voted on, were the laws voted on by Metinvest? When exactly did you disagree with him? Maybe that's exactly the way you're going to go out on this rostrum and say that you didn't agree that in your time, Zelensky and Cologne were laundering Privatbank's money? Maybe you don't agree with that either. And today, the Guardian, Euronews, Washington Post, everyone writes about it, the European Parliament even heads the respective groups. When exactly did you disagree, when the most prooligarchy faction formed by representatives of financial and industrial groups stood up for its interests? That's what we're curious to hear. And what role and place did the speaker play in this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u52	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. I think that the worst charge of the most prooligarchy faction can only be that the faction itself consists of oligarchs. As far as the above questions are concerned, I think I might have remembered that the faction "The Opposition Platform is Life" has supported some of them and is quite hot. So here's the question that probably all the laws were important to the country, if your faction, the second of most, supported them. As for the rest of the questions, I think we will be able to have a public discussion through the media, which is now rich in our society, and to answer all the questions that little has to do with today's meeting. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u53	Thank you. It was Mikita Ruslanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u54	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, you think we've had a two-year decision about our council regarding our community of the Crimean Orthodox Church of Ukraine. As a council, there was much we could do to support the Ukrainians, the Orthodox Ukrainians, the faithful church of our independence. But Dmitri Alexanderovich, for some reason, refused to put her to the vote. Is it because he does not support the Orthodox Church of Ukraine or that he is targeting the electorate of the southeast? What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u55	Thank you, Mikita Ruslanovich, for asking. I'm not going to comment on Dmitry Alexanderovich's personal position, I think he's going to do just fine on his own. I would like to say that, perhaps, only that many of those questions that, let's say, could be addressed to Parliament in one way or another, they were actually delayed, translated, let's not do this right now, it's a complex question, ideological, let's not move it, and so on. But we do realize that the economy has to take up much of our work, probably more, because there's nothing wrong with the country. But the question of patriotism, of ideology, where we're going at all, is also important to the Ukrainian Parliament. I think we still have time for one question, and I'll give it a shot.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u56	Thank you. People's deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u57	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, I have a question. Do you plan to make changes to the Governing Council’s Rules, and what will they be? That's the first one. And I'd like to say another little thing like that. A year and a half ago, I asked Dmitri Alexanderovich to register the TSK in Odessa, according to our very famous mayor Truhanov, who was sued yesterday. And unfortunately, for a year and a half, I was waiting for this TSC to register, and it wasn't done. And yesterday, we all saw how our law enforcement agencies worked, and we thank them very much for that. And my question is, what is the state of implementation of the party plan and the President's programme for today?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u58	Are you in the area? About the Rules. I'm, you know, one of the authors of a series of bills that have already been registered, which have even passed the first reading on the Committee on Amendments to the Rules. This involved both sorting and improving the procedure 119 prima. about the speedy procedure. This also applies to the regulations of blockers. This was about changing the schedule of our work, and I was the initiator, and I want to remind you of that. And now we work as a normal European Parliament, not sitting there for a two-hour break, but working more dynamically. I think you and I will create appropriate working groups around the regulatory committee. There's a committee or a group on Parliament's reform. There are conclusions from the Cox mission. There's a lot of information, content, about how to reform Parliament. And I think that the question of, in particular, going through procedures, particularly with regard to registration and voting for the TSC, can be speeded up. Because this is a tool that should be used actively by members of different parliaments, not just from opposition to how they want to own TSCs, but I absolutely think that a party of authorities in Parliament can also use temporary commissions of inquiry. For the rest of us. I think we're going to have a discussion with you, too, probably in the media, too, hopefully in the Odes media, as we've done with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u59	Thank you. People's deputy Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for you. You've given a lot of reasons to call off the speaker, but for some reason you haven't called Law 2524, it's about amending the Tax Code for the function of an electronic office to improve the work of operators. Where, when the Supreme Council failed to enforce mandatory cashiers, it was still submitted to the committee’s management after the vote, falsified and signed by the speaker and sent to the president. I mean, I'm the fourth time a national MP, and I've seen it for the first time, so boldly that it's done. And now a criminal case is being investigated. And so me and a couple of other people's deputies came to a conclusion, I know, the Institute for Scientific Research and Forensic Research. And what are we going to do with this to make it impossible in the future? One. And second. What will we do with the fact that the false law? What will we do with the law? And what are we also going to do with the committee that did this to the speaker? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u61	Thank you, Mr. Anton. I think we're going to do everything we can to make sure that text manipulation doesn't take place after signatures. We know a lot of cases, and it's not just yours. Well, there's this, you know, with the connections being manipulated there (and, or, but, somewhere, the paragraphs are moving around, somewhere, the sentences. But I don't think it's a responsibility exactly like the Head of the Supreme Council. That's what I'd be referring to, the question I was speaking about, the absence of the Chief of Apparatus. Because if there is no one to ask, then there are problems in the text on the way out. As far as service investigations are concerned, I think we can do them, we can't do them, we can't do them, we don't have a goal here, you know, to find some shooter. We need to understand that there are gaps in the system, and again, this is before the reform of the Supreme Council, because it's not just the Rules that need to be reformed. And the same Cox mission said a lot about reforming the internal procedures in the apparatus. Because there is much to be determined about the apparatus, the various office instructions, the duties, and so forth. So this whole array of documents has to be taken, analyzed, simplified, simplified. This should not violate the Constitution, the other laws of Ukraine, the rights of MPs in any way not to restrict, but exactly in the twenty-first century it must look a little different, otherwise work. As for the fate of the law, I think if there's a wish, you can collect 45 signatures and go to the CSU, determine whether it's constitutional or not, but I don't think it's the same law that would be so popular to use. There are many other reforms that the opposition will like to accuse in the KSO. So how do we deal with this law in a different way? Thank you for your attention. I get it. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u62	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u63	Good day again, dear fellows! I'm not going to stop much on the report right now, he was all set up in the morning. I've always let everyone speak from this rostrum, and I want that right given to me today. Listen to me, please, and then everyone in this room will make their choice. I'll tell you about Ukraine of my dream. Ukraine, where only salutations are fired at weddings and birthdays, where doctors and teachers get real wages, and corrupters get real pay. Where only the Carpathian forests are untouchable, not the national deputies of Ukraine. Where Grandma gets a decent pension, not a heart attack from utility bills. Where there are roads and there are no fools. This is Ukraine's real and realized dream, Ukraine's closest future, Ukraine from which our children will not come with you. I remind you all, this is part of our pre-election program in 2019. Nice, honest, real words and principles with which we went to people in 2019. And they believed objectively: both those watching us on television today and those sitting in this room and even those who did not vote for us. You and I didn't come here for jobs, and that's not for money anymore. We went to change the country, make it different, make it better, because we all truly believed it. I remember seeing the eyes of those who joined the team, and I remember that. I remember the eyes of the people on the streets, on the meetings, on the air, as they believed us, absolutely believed. It was a blind belief that everything would work out. It's because we're new, we're honest, we're right, we're right, we're right, because we're not like them. Unfortunately, today in this room, I see other eyes and eyes in people have also changed very much -- they've become different. All this time, I tried to make at least part of those promises a reality. Not the good names and slogans that often hide wrong and illegal things, but the reality. But if we go back to the principles, the principle of democracy with which we walked, the right of the people, became the principle of power of the majority. The principle of the rule of law and law has been changed to political relevance. The principle of the right to one's own position and freedom of speech changed the principle of "whosoever is not with us, he is against us." The principle of "one law for all" has become the principle of "friends, everything, enemies, the law". And the principle that "offshores are for the power of shame" became the principle of "nothing terrible, every FOP has them." There's a lot of dirt today. I've never sailed a current, I haven't done it in 2019, and I won't do it today. No position is worthy of self-esteem, dignity, and, above all, it is not worthy of the trust of people. With any storms and storms, the Ukrainian Parliament must remain as a safeguard as it has been in our history, and as a point of balance, and as a balance. It's going to depend on each and every one of you, I repeat, on each and every one of you. There will be no collective responsibility, there will be responsibility only for the country and for the people. It's a personal responsibility -- what our country will be like in the future. Regardless of who is the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Parliament must remain a subject, subjective institution. Otherwise, it's a way to lose democracy, to usurp power and lose parliamentaryism. Please keep that in mind. My principles have not changed. My values are the same as they were. The desire and the power to prove to people that they were not all wrong is also there. I'm sure there'll be enough people in this room. It's always hard to get up and go against the system, always. Step one, it's the hardest. But if you know it's the only right choice, it's always easy. I'll remind you all one last time. When we went to power, we said one thing that we should become politicians but remain human. Let us live up to this promise. And finally, thank you, colleagues, for a constructive, effective job over the past two years. I hope that Parliament will remain a parliament and that people in Parliament will remain human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u64	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Members of the People’s Council are requested to sign up for a question to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Come back, please. National deputy of Nekludov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u65	Dmitri Alexanderovich! Vladimir Nekludov, "Serial of the People" faction. I have a question for you. You said about the country of dreams you wanted to build. I have a question for you. Is there a country of dreams when you are and are now the Head of the Supreme Council, being a speaker, on a number of occasions, when you heard colleagues from this faction, and from this, you insulted the President, the MPs, you had to react, make remarks, turn off the microphone. And you have never made any remarks, stopped these violations, and thus contributed to the violation of the Rules. Why have you never taken action to violate the Rules? That's the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u66	Thank you for the well-spoken question, Lord Mikhailovich. Because we have freedom of speech in Parliament and beyond, and freedom of thought will also remain. Even when this faction, and others, was not always correctly expressed in my opinion, it was their position. I'm a normal critic, and I advise you, it helps you to move and move on effectively and correct your mistakes if you have them and they have them all. Did you get the answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u67	Thank you. Lopushian. 11:03. 35
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u68	I'd like to give Alexia a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u69	Who, again?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u70	A potter's girl.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u71	Potter Alexi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u72	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, I have a few questions for you. First question. Now we have an equator of power: exactly half the term was served by the President, exactly half the term was served by the Supreme Council. Your assessment of President Greensky's work? Your assessment of the work of a majority of the Supreme Council? Second question. There's a rumor that voting for you, which happens with the oligarchic groups, is such a struggle with the oligarchs, a vote for your takeoff is also bonded with envelopes with such green envelopes. Do you know about such facts? And is there a distribution of envelopes to the majority MPs in our parliament? I still have a lot of questions to ask you, and I can't ask them all right now, so I'm inviting you to join me in the "Goncharenko Runs." And let the whole nation hear your answers to all these questions. I invite you to do this literally, well, tomorrow's birthday, we can do it right after it. Welcome to the next one!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u73	Thank you. The first question is about evaluation. An assessment of both me and the President, and all those in this Council today and in power in general, and in opposition, will be given, not by me, but by the people. I don't have that kind of authority. And this score is going to be in the election, where they're going to give us each a plus or a minus. And that's going to be a plus-one or no in the newsletter. Yeah, well, if you want to hear what people are saying, I think we're all on the street if we don't get off the ground, we'll hear the answers. But I'm not sure everyone will like them. The second question is about some envelopes. You know, I've been "converts" in two years, more than two years in the Supreme Council, and I haven't taken any from anyone, from the oligarchs or anyone else. If I did, I wasn't filmed, but I was closed. But I am. Let each one be responsible for himself, no one has brought me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u74	Thank you. People's MP Skork.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u75	The third question is about air. Wait, let's have our birthday party.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u76	National MP Skork, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u77	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I have a very important procedural question. I wanted to ask you, Dmitri Alexanderovich, how can we even consider removing you from office when there should be an account report for this? I understand what he is. But, frankly, I've been working for years in the financial and banking sphere, and I don't understand how since Tuesday, when your removal procedure was initiated, a report could have appeared on Wednesday night. When the appropriate auditors were to be audited, they checked all the expenses of the Supreme Council, these are multimillion GSM, office, and so on. That's the main question. You know, colleagues, I, when I look at the debate, I understand that this question might give us an incentive to understand that we should have one law for all, that the authorities should respect the opposition, and the opposition to respect the authority that there is no so-called democratic opposition, a non-democratic one, which is a national MP and the main one is the people of Ukraine. And what we're doing right now is political.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u78	Thank you, Mikola Leonidovich. As for the speed of the account room's work, I don't think you're going to ask your colleagues. Indeed, materials to the national deputies should come according to the law no later than two days later. And my report, it was sent today, and the report of the Accounting Chamber. I mean, there's a violation. But I don't think people care. There's something else that's interesting. You rightly said that the law should be one for all and for the Head of the Supreme Council to be the same. But sometimes political relevance predominates what we're talking about right now. It's bad, I think it's going to have to be fixed anyway. Thank you. To make the law one for all in Ukraine and in the Supreme Council the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u79	Thank you. We're actually all working on it. I would like to thank the Chamber of Accounts for its operational work and for having received the report at the proper time. National Deputy Sowsun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u80	Please pass the word to Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u81	Sergey Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u82	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, if I have correctly understood the claims made to you by the representatives of the majority, I understand that you were not too sensitive to their requests. I have a specific question in mind. How often have representatives of which factions or national MPs asked you to adopt a decision, to extend a decision or other decision contrary to the Rules, the Constitution, or the law? I'd just like to talk about a specific number, at least in general numbers, about specific people, I don't know, is Geo Leros there or is there anyone else? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u83	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Look, when I was listening to a colleague, the question was, did I break up the fortress too? Remember, in one movie, a Soviet movie. But seriously, if I'm serious, I think that a sufficient number of people today have pointed out what questions they've asked. There can be no questions. Here is the law, the Law on the Rules, the orderlyness of the consideration of matters. And if we're talking about some other aspects, ask in the direction of your faction, they'll tell you and they'll be able to answer a lot of questions. I don't know, will everyone like the answers? We can have such a meeting, even if I'm not the head of the Supreme Council, if it's not so scary, it's scary. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u84	Thank you. People's Deputy Buymister.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u85	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Dmitri Alexanderovich, I have a question for you. When we came to power, I remember you being the kind of person who didn't let Parliamentarianism be broken on the first day and break the "Serial of the People" faction with a so-called imperative mandate that any disagreeable national MP could not just be expelled from the faction of one or the other, but take the mandate, even the majority. That's my question. Do you associate today’s events with the fact that you were on the side of Parliament’s integrity at the time, even then you were on the side of democracy? And how do we continue to make sure that this Parliament will not accept mandatory mandates, will not continue to violate the law, as we have seen for the last two weeks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u86	Thank you. I think I've done everything right, and I've been proving the position that I believe I shouldn't have voted on the first night 73 laws. The faction then supported it, but everyone remembers who voted. One question at night was the question of an imperative mandate. I think that if he were then voted in what we call our district of concern, today's discussion in this room would be less. So I did something positive for this Parliament and for the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u87	Thank you. Members of the People’s Council are requested to sign up for a question to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Oh, sorry, lack of experience. Excuse me, please. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. On the show, on the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u88	Thank you again, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u89	National MP Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u90	Dear citizens of Ukraine, I think the events that are happening today and as "ministers of the people" are running away from the hall because they don't want to look into the eyes of whoever they're filming right now. I think we need to look at what this House is going to do in history. Now thousands of people are on the street because you've destroyed a faction of the vast majority of "ministers of the people," generally the notion of social protection. You're the one who passed the most immoral Act on the Gambling Business, and then you cut taxes on the casino. You're the one who started the "ministers of the people," the sale of land for agriculture. It's you, no one else, who's actually leading to the collapse of Parliament right now, and that's in a total economic crisis. You see how all sectors of the economy work. You see what happens to small businesses. You see what happens when you tax small businesses and you put pressure on them. I think that's the best illustration of where this Parliament is going. But you've already reached the pen, because you've already begun to eat, "ministers of the people," each other. You can't stop now, because the key question for you is not the principles of democracy, it's not the work of Parliament, it's not the organization of work, it's not the organization of work in such a way that the rights of opposition are respected so that the rights of all factions and of every MP are respected, you have only one point of view and this point of view is yours, there are no others. Where this has led the country -- we can see it now. But where does Parliament go next? In fact, the total and total disintegration of the Ukrainian Parliament began. We understand that the removal of the Chief of the Supreme Council is the final point before the start of the new electoral campaign. I think today's vote is exactly the kind of vote that any opposition in any country is always seeking. When the parliamentary majority, the majority of the "ministers of the people" fail to cope with their work, Parliament goes to the polls. I think there's going to be a winged expression here: "We will not see you in the next Parliament, "the servants of the people." Dmitri Alexanderovich, until we meet in the new parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u91	Thank you for your confidence that you will enter the new Parliament. People's MP Skork, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Boyko, please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u92	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs! "The Opposition Platform for Life" is not going to support the vote for the speaker's resignation, because we think it's basically political intrigue that's taking place in a difficult country time. At the same time, I want to talk about the moral side of this process, not just politics. When a faction who has spent two years with his companion refuses to meet him and refuses to talk to him, goes to an exit meeting to resolve his fate, it is already, honourable national MPs, it is not politics, it is a moral downfall. And when I listened to some of the national MPs from The Servant of the People yesterday and today, it became clear to me that we were back in the times that we were with you, fortunately, only in the movies. In the 37th year, someone on the team is accused of being an enemy of being an enemy of the people, and every member of the team has to come out and embarrass him with shame -- to say that he, the eyes are open, he was a spy, and how he worked badly. We saw it yesterday, we see it today. And this is also a moral downfall. I think so. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I don't think you'll be able to wait for your colleagues to appreciate the work you've been doing for two years. But I thank you from our faction, even though we are political opponents, for standing up for the principles of parliamentaryism, for holding intelligent and balanced meetings of the Supreme Council, for trying to hear not only their associates, as has already been explained, but also their opponents. Thank you for that. I'll see you in the next Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u93	National Deputy Bakunets, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u94	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Ukrainian citizens, dear colleagues, have chosen us with you to the Supreme Council to represent their interests and to work to solve their problems, the problems of the common people, the development of the whole country, and the development of each community. The success of a community in general depends on the success of the whole country. Instead, in the last days, internal conflicts have been resolved in the single legislative body of Ukraine. We want to go through this period as soon as possible and get back to the issues that are important to Ukrainians, the issues that concern the people who have put us here with you. Because you and I are standing on the threshold of the heating season. Regrettably, the newly created communities have a negative budget trend, they lack the resources to pay teachers, to pay doctors. An epidemic of the Coronavirus is on its way, and many hospitals are not yet ready. It is these problems that we and you, your honourable colleagues, should be discussing in that room, not what is currently going on. Of course, the Supreme Council is a place of discussion and collegiate decisions, and at the time of adoption, each vote is important, the voice of every MP delegated here by the people. Therefore, it is important for us to organize a stable and constructive work for Parliament. I want to remind everyone here that all MPs, regardless of party membership, have equal rights to legislative initiative, so MPs from different groups and factions should be treated equally and considered in this room. But we have often observed a tendency to give priority to drafts from one faction or another, not to all in a row. We hope that the time spent on these personnel changes, unfortunately, will not lead to questions that could be considered instead in this room that could lead to some negative development in our communities and countries. We believe that this time will not be wasted on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u95	National MP Grishin, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u96	Please pass the word to Mikhail Raducci.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u97	Mikhail Raducci, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u98	First of all, I want to say that the political faction of the "Serial of the People" will support retirement, because we see no tragedy here. Dmitri Aleksandrovitch is a very respectable man who is running the Supreme Council today. There are problems, but Dmitri Aleksandrovitch will benefit the Ukrainians and find himself simply in the Chamber as an MP. One manager, another manager, is just the head of the Supreme Council. That's the first one. Second of all, Dmitri Alexanderovich, you're in your play. You had a few things that hurt me personally. First. Let's do that, if you're already going to double standards, then answer for all of the double standards. You blamed the President, not in very pleasant shape, on the offshore. And why you, forgetting that one of the first laws adopted by this Supreme Council was an anti-offshor law. And at the same time, you haven't mentioned the pawnshops in your performances, not just today. Lombards don't make much money begging people? But I have a guess why you never mention pawnbrokers, but it's on your conscience. The other one. You didn't allow 2.5 million Ukrainians to get available painkillers, get available treatments for those who have been injured in the ATO, get normal drugs that don't cost $500, $600, and that cost 100, 120 dollars. Are these not double standards, Dmitri Alexanderovich? You personally didn't like it, you had to press the red button, but you didn't do what you did back then in the hall. The third is about double standards. I'm very grateful to you, the only thing I want to thank you for is that it wasn't at any of the speakers at your house that green street for the opposition factions. Because as a monocoalysm, we were asked to come here to the rostrum and ask for something. But the other factions that seem to be in opposition, they didn't do it, you helped them all. And the fourth. Are these not double standards — all of them and nothing to others? When you, if you say something inconsequential, disagreeable, you're gathering committee deputies here in the rostrum and saying, "Did you hear that? After that, no law of your committee will be in order of the day." Look, there's ears in the walls in this Supreme Council. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I hope I don't know, I hear you already know what faction you're going to be in and who you're going to next. Let's go, before the next election, there's still a lot of time. I very much wish that you, as a national MP, would help the country without double standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u99	Thank you. People's MP Ruddick, Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u100	The word of Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I don't see any point in talking about the Rules, because this conversation is hopeless, we've seen it in the last three days, so let's give a little bit of history. In 1995, I was one of the first to learn about the intention of then’s first assistant, President Alexander Razumkov of Ukraine, to apply for release at my own request. This statement was made after the insistent request of the then president. And we talked to him literally two hours after that, and I asked him about the motives, he answered in a way that Leonid Danilovich, judging by everything, got tired of hearing a point of view that didn't match his own. As a human being, he's entitled to it, but when this person is president, it can turn into a problem for the state. Sadly, history teaches that it teaches us nothing. Over the past 30 years, I've watched politics in Ukraine devour a huge number of people, people who, every one of whom, thought they were coming forever. And I ate so much that only the bones were crunched. If you're sitting at a table right now, that doesn't mean you won't be part of the menu tomorrow. I just wanted you to think about it. Because the worst thing the Supreme Council can do is help turn political institutions into food chains. You can be part of the menu, each of you tomorrow. Think about it. And I just want to thank Dmitri Alexanderovich, at least for trying to leave Parliament as an independent player in the political process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u102	Thank you. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. Irina Heratschenko, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u103	Dear Ukrainians, the record price of gas, in world markets, is $2,000. And there's only 15 billion cubic meters in Ukrainian gas shelters, 3 of them are commercial. It's a disaster. Ukraine's second in Europe is the number of patients and the number of deaths on COVID. It's a disaster. It's a failed vaccination system. Before the Ukrainian army, for the first time since 2014, a catastrophic debt of 2 billion 300 million dollars. It's a disaster. And that's what the responsible authorities are supposed to be doing right now. But in Parliament we see a cheap show for one viewer on Bank. What is this show? It's Mowgli. When there's a casting for the role of Tobacco running into the European Solidarity sector and screaming, "Akela missed!" Sherhan's been watching all this from Bank. Let's go back to Mowgli. You know, our faction, the only one who didn't vote for Razumkov as head of the Supreme Council. Why? Because we had a claim that, indeed, the first day of Parliament's work was 73 laws trying to break all the rules of the Rules, to be carried out on the basis and in general. But only one was symbolically voted — the Law on impeachment. And you'll mention my words, he'll work with this president. But I have to give due respect to our opponent, he was trying to preserve the minimum independence of the Ukrainian Parliament. There are so many people in this room who say you were in the Dignity Revolution. And then it seemed that huge fuses were in society against autocracy. But unfortunately, the electoral revolution turned into an electoral usurpation today. And all that's going on here is trying not to release Reasonable, it's really your right to put one Supreme Council head, call it off, change it to another. But be decent, be decent. And you know, today there is no dignity in this House and there is no democracy. Because you're releasing him for the agreement of the Bankers who want to have 200 percent of their Henprocuror, 200 percent of their D.B.I., 200 percent of their interior minister, 200 percent of their pocket head here. And this one today. You know, there's evolution in Parliament, and there's degradation. And today you are trying with your own hands to reverse the key achievement of the Dignity Revolution -- this is the conversion of Ukraine from the parliamentary-presidential republic to the presidential, to the office of the Bank. Which maybe isn't Bankova, but Moscow, because we're still waiting to investigate Wagnergate and find out who betrayed the Ukrainian military. And I wanted to ask Mr. Razumkov one more question, as did a member of the RNB. When was the last time the U.N.B.O. Was involved, not in "secs" but in the Ukrainian army, in Ukrainian energy?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u104	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speeches by the national deputies. National MP Vasilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u105	Give the word to Jaroslav the Ironborn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u106	Jaroslav Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u107	Good afternoon, colleagues. Honestly, it's disgusting to hear and see what's been going on for the last hour, and actually, let's talk for a few months. When the ecclesiasticals come out of this high rostrum, they pour dirt on a man who was still the first number of your party. And we had the opportunity to debate, argue, sometimes to oppose each other hard enough during the election campaign. But Mr. Razumkov stood up for your interests and you got more votes -- that's objectivity. Surprisingly, when people who have little or no legal status at all have passed any laws, they blame the laws for not accepting or adopting them. At the same time, they go on the air and tell us that the great achievement of our Parliament, and I agree here, is exactly what laws are adopted together, together. Because there was a dialogue. Because even in the most difficult times when the coronavirus began, we all met in the Head of Parliament and found compromises, and passed laws quickly, qualitatively, and for the people. It's very strange when a person who's entered history not only by electronics, but also by clicking 7-8 times for one vote, blames the speaker who first beat the button and the sensory button. And the pianists stayed only in the theaters, not in the Ukrainian Parliament. Surprisingly, many officials came out and no one started or finished his speech simply by saying thank you. It doesn't really characterize you in a human way. It's very strange to look many of you in the eye. They really became different, and many of you hide them during the vote. How many of our good things are then buried, as the Rules have already been buried. Dear colleagues, who represent the majority, is your right, indeed, you can do anything but prohibit the law. Today, the law prohibits the release of the Head of Parliament because of a violation of the terms. But you don't care. Before that, you were forbidden to do other things, and you were not interested. It's going to be bad when another institution makes Parliament a laughingstock, and it's going to be interesting to you too. I will not vote for Mr. Razumkov's resignation. And I think all the real opposition forces should not vote for him. Dear colleagues, you're making a mistake today. Whether she's fatal or not, I don't know, but she's definitely fatal to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u108	National Deputy Ionov, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u109	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u110	Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, respected journalists, respected Ukrainians! You know, I'm looking closely at all the events that last days and weeks are happening in the Ukrainian Parliament. So far in Parliament, because tomorrow, you can only imagine. Because the usurpation of power, it's going very, very fast. And today I was very interested to hear a speech by the Party's "Serial of the People" leader, where he spoke of things that were not really true. I even wrote after him. He said "The Servant of the People" is building a strong Ukraine. Is that with more than 2 billion military debts? Or with national treachery when a secret operation merges, the brilliant operation of the Ukrainian Special Forces? Where did you see a strong Ukraine here? I mean, they say one thing, they do the other way around. The other one. Did you talk about fighting the oligarchs? Colleagues, what is the fight against oligarchs when international investigation shows Mr. Zelensky’s involvement in the laundering of dirty money from the Privatbank? You're talking about Neats here. You know, I'm only going to say one phrase that's become a meme in this country: And that's what one of your team members said, unfortunately. What should we consider? And here I fully support the position of European Solidarity, and I support the position of opposition. We have to look at what's going on with the economy. We have to look at what's going on in this room with the social sphere and finally pay the thirteenth pension to the pensioners that the ruling party robs without indexing pensions. We need to deal with the epidemic because everyone remembers the sport masters in the fight against the coronavirus. But Mr. Zelensky went on: already this summer he said that Ukraine is fully ready for a new wave of COVID-19. And, you know, it was very sad to see yesterday's and the news of the last days when the doctors claimed it. For example, the chief physician at the Mečnikova District Hospital in Dniper claims that the anchor resuscitation in Dniper is overloaded, and the HPV equipment is missing. This is what we need to consider. And finally. Nothing good about your actions will happen to Ukraine because usurpation in this power is never going through in this country. And you don't have to speed things up and accelerate, move on Janukovich's path, because he ended up in Rostov. There, too, will be the end of the one who is now fully following his course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u112	Arthur Volodymyrovich, don't stop, your word is next. Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, this was by Sergey Rachmanin, who told you the story. Perhaps there have never been so few people in this room who have some kind of historical or institutional memory, but it is free. It is good to remember the history of Ukraine and how some or other victories that seem so important and actually prove to be pyrograms. You're about to win a pyroic victory. We heard the disappointed speaker today, disappointed in you, mostly in the coalition, in the people he brought into this room. He is, to a large extent, more than any of you. I understand disappointment, although it's not my emotion, I'm not disappointed because I wasn't fascinated. I was not fascinated by the story of the president on a bicycle, who moved very quickly into a cruise ship and moved to the state cottage. Which, for example, was not done by his predecessor, who, very soon as it turned out, did more than just use offshore, but was involved in the washing of millions of dirty money by an oligarch of Cologne. I was not fascinated by the story of new people who were lost here, not just by not knowing any laws, but were openly involved in corrupt devices. I wasn't fascinated by 100 percent of my Henprocuror, my minister of internal affairs, and so on, which we were told honestly by the leader of "The Servant of the People," which is the law for his own, opponents and enemies. And you're implementing this policy now. But, you know, I started talking to you about the institutional memory. This room saw a lot of things, she saw an attempt to make a dictatorship of power, but there was never a dictatorship of envelopes and money that denied the right to debate. This has never happened in the Ukrainian Parliament, and now it is. You deny the right to debate only because other arguments work and these arguments are unfortunately not about the people, not about Ukraine, but about your particular pragmatic interest. So, then, back to historical memory. Some speakers, who had been filmed in this parliament, then won the parliamentary elections. I would strongly advise you not to forget that. And to mention that the path of dictatorship leads to Rostov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u114	Thank you. In summary, I want to point out that this discussion is exactly what's happening in our room right now. Hence, these accusations must be groundless. We have concluded our discussion of the matter. And I got a statement from two national MPs on the Opposition Platform for Life to vote on the agenda by secret ballot. I would like to remind my colleagues of article 77, paragraph 4, of the Rules, where it is explicitly stated that this vote is carried out only by an open vote. I'm sorry, but it's against the law. So, are we ready to vote national MPs? We're moving on to making a decision. Ready? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Excuse me, please. Ready to vote? Thank you. In accordance with article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine of articles 76, 77 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the motion to withdraw the invitation of the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:42:29]] For 284 Decision taken. I want to thank all of us for our work and to wish him further success in his political career. It was a difficult two years, but we passed them together, and passed them with dignity and honor. Thank you. [[Applause]] I ask the Supreme Council apparatus to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision we have made. I'll give you my word. [[B in m in s a l in]] By factions, please show me. "People's Servant" – 215, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 20, "For the Future" – 19, "Golos" – 6, "Trust" – 18, non-fractional – 6. Thank you. I give the floor to Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, let's move on. There's an offer. Please, Motovilover National MP. Motovilovec National MP, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u116	There is a proposal to initiate the procedure for the election of the new Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u117	One minute of motive, Coltunovich, please. As a matter of fact, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u118	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I would like to remind you that you and I have already made a decision in this plenary meeting on the passage and exhaustion of the agenda of Decree 5079 -- this is about the renaming of the village of Passage of the Umani district of Cherkas region. So now we have to go through it and then go on making or not making a procedural decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the issue of personnel, they are included without including it in the agenda. Therefore, honourable members of the people, let us turn to the question of the then proposed election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council elects the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The election shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements of Chapter XV of the Rules. Dear colleagues, I ask you, given the potential conflict of interest, to continue the conduct of Helen Constantinena. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u120	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I ask the secretariat to provide me with the appropriate documents. So let's move on to the question of the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council elects the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 74 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, candidates for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are proposed at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council by the deputy factions, the parliamentary groups and the people’s deputies. The issue of the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not require committee preparation. It is now proposed to announce a 30-minute recess for the meeting of MP factions and groups to agree on the candidates that will be proposed for the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This will require a vote if the national MPs agree to such a procedure, please prepare for the vote. So, I'm proposing a vote to announce a 30-minute recess in the session, to hold parliamentary factions and groups to agree on the candidates that will be proposed to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:47:45]] For 275 Decision taken. So there's a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. I understand that there have already been meetings of MP factions and groups. We also have national MPs who can put up and take the position of self-registration by candidates for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask all the MPs and groups and national MPs of Ukraine to apply for the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, I know that I have been approached by the faction of the political party "Slut of the People" about the expulsion of Stefan Ruslan Alexiyovich, Ukrainian national deputy on the ninth election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is also a proposal from the National Deputies Klimenko, Vasilchenko, Lozinski, Pippa, Ruššišin, Stefanishina, Ustinov, Sharaszkin to be nominated as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of People's Deputy Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. Are there any other suggestions? Please, Irina Heratschenko, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we ask for clarification, first for the verdict, and then we will inform you of our decision. There was a meeting of the European Solidarity faction, and we decided to delegate to the Supreme Council of our candidate. But please explain yourself. I would like to remind you that under the Anti-Corruption Act, all candidates for the post of Head of the Supreme Council or First Deputy should submit their declarations. And it's obviously the same thing that needs to be done, especially if there's been a full test and some changes need to be made. We want to ask you. Do we have the right to prepare a declaration to take time and put this procedure to a vote tomorrow? Because it's not really a question of stretching now, colleagues, but we really want to put a colleague who's had a full test of the declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear Irina Volodymyrna! In accordance with the Rules, part three of article 74 of the Ukrainian Rules, will be proposed after you have announced your nominations, there will be a 30-minute recess to prepare the secretariat of the Supreme Council for all documents to be distributed, their documents to the members of the Supreme Council. With regard to the completion of the declaration, on the basis of the declaration already made, I understand, simply renew the declaration. So I have to follow the Rules accordingly, by law, so I'm going to have 30 minutes now, if you don't make it, I can take another 30 minutes to get these papers ready. Are there any other candidates? Does anyone else have any suggestions? Please, Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u124	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. I propose to serve as Head of the Supreme Council of Geo Leros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u125	Will anyone else have any suggestions? Please, Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u126	I propose to serve as Parliament Speaker Alexi Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u127	Alexei Hotcharenko, there is. Are there any other suggestions? Please help the secretariat of the Supreme Council to find out, and the apparatus, just by submitting a declaration of candidate to the Supreme Council. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, the faction of "European Solidarity" agrees that after everything that is going on in Parliament, we need to restore dignity here again. Who can be more worthy of representing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine than Jan Zinkevich. A new face, a man who saved thousands of lives of our military personnel. A man who can restore to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine dignity, legality, respect. And that's why our candidate is Jan Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u129	Thank you. Thank you for the nomination. Andrew Herus, please, "Serve of the People." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u130	The presiding officer, if possible by procedure, is the candidate of Jaroslav Železniak. He now holds two positions — the head of the faction and the deputy head of the committee. If we suddenly choose it, there will be a third position. I propose first to release him from existing positions, at least from one of two.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u131	We'll talk later, candidates. That's why you're too early. You're talking too soon. Everyone has the right to submit both the MPs, and every deputy, including you, can submit your candidacy. Thank you. Are there any other candidates? Did everyone express their wishes? Thank you. So we now have proposals for such candidates as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: National Deputy Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, National Deputy Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, National Deputy Geo Leros, People's Deputy Alexei Honcharenko and National Deputy Jan Zinkevich. In accordance with part three of article 74 of the Rules before the start of the discussion of the proposed candidates in the parliamentary factions, in the parliamentary groups, the Supreme Council's apparatus provides members with information about each of them. In accordance with article 28 of the Rules, I announce a 30 - minute break to ensure that the Supreme Council is provided with this information. Please provide the Supreme Council with such information as soon as possible about the candidates for the post of Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u132	Unfortunately, not all the documents of our candidates for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are ready, so I announce a recess for another half hour. Please, the Supreme Council's apparatus please speed up this procedure as soon as possible, if we're done, it'll be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to take their seats in the hall. We'll be starting our work in two minutes. Please distribute all printed materials to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue our work for an hour. I ask you very much to consider the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as stipulated in the Rules. All documents are now being distributed to you according to the requirements of part two of Rule 74 of the Supreme Council Rules. We need to make a decision to move to the selection and discussion of candidates. In accordance with part two of article 74 of the Rules, a proposal is made to move to the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We must now vote and win 226 votes in order to move on to this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Ready to vote? I therefore propose a vote: in accordance with article 74, part two, of the Rules, to proceed to the discussion of candidates for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:53:29]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Show me the factions, please. I asked to be here without ten friends. What does it mean to be unprepared? People's deputies need to be in their seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's talk about the procedure, please. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u134	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Because we see that the Servant of the People doesn't want to work and consciously led Parliament into a crisis, I suggest we call a recess. Since there is no desire to work today, meet tomorrow morning. At least let them do some work because they're not used to working. And let's be able to prepare for an emergency session that opens in two hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u135	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich, please, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, even though we did not accept this counter-regulatory procedure of recalling the speaker and appointing the new Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we did not interfere. But now there was an unquestionable fact: The Supreme Council refused to consider the matter today. So I ask the presiding lady to close the meetings and return to the matter tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u137	Herasimov Arthur, please, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u138	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians! The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the question of the choice of speaker has just been voted on, more precisely, not a vote. This is exactly what we warned about, because not enough time has been allocated even for the preparation of candidate documents. But we fully support our opposition colleagues, who have just offered to close today's meetings and to meet tomorrow in a normal manner, fully prepared to move on to this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u139	Motovilover, please, Andrew, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u140	I ask you to put this question to the vote again in order for the House to vote. It's a procedural decision, there's no problem voting again. Be a good girl, I ask you to put him to the vote again. Thank you. We had two breaks, the "Serve of the People" weren't oriented, and they didn't make it to the hall. Be a good girl, we're ready to back you up. Please put it to the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u141	You know. [[B in m in s a l in]] Jaroslav Železniak, please, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, you have so often talked about voting on this rostrum and on the air that many have been called in the past. You can't do that anymore. You have to follow the Rules. That's why I support my colleagues. I think there's gonna be another day. We have an order of the day. I suggest either that the meetings be closed or that the issue of ratification be brought to the fore. At least yesterday I heard a lot, and during the week I heard that Parliament was running low. Let us now move on to work or set aside the staffing issue by Friday at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I have worked frankly in past calls, and in this call I have the opportunity to work. I'm going to ask everyone to calm down, because we didn't actually vote in favour of the start of the candidature discussion, and we got into this, so it's a little bit of a different thing. I don't have to knock, I have to work in my place. Have all printed material been distributed? Are all the national deputies satisfied with this question? Are you dissatisfied? Faction leaders, please prepare all members of your faction who do not yet have documents on candidates for the election of the Supreme Council. So once again, I am putting to the vote the opening of a discussion of the candidates for the post of Head of the Supreme Council. It's not a question of involving this issue again. But please take your seats, I won't do it again. I want us to deal with this more quickly and get to the normal issues of order of the day that interest people. Thus, according to part two of article 74 of the Rules, a proposal is made to move forward to the consideration of candidates for office as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:59:15]] For 254 Decision taken. So let us move on to the discussion of candidates for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the order of the discussion provided for in article 75 of the Rules. You might want to calm down a little bit. You'll be discussing all the candidates right now. So, a statement by the candidates with a report on their programmes of activity, within 20 minutes, the candidates' answers to questions by the national MPs are up to nine minutes. It takes 1 minute to answer each oral question and 2 minutes to answer it. From MP factions and groups to 21 minutes, three minutes each. From the National Deputies to 9 minutes. And making a decision. That is, according to article 75 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the specified order for consideration of the matter. Please vote. [[14:00:25]] For 256 Decision taken. Please show by factions. Thank you. In accordance with articles 31-1, 37 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I now give the floor to the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, National Deputy Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, for a public declaration of conflict of interest. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u144	I publicly declare a conflict of interest and will not vote in favour of the candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u145	Now, before you. We're candidates first, then out of procedure. Next. In accordance with articles 31-1, 37 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I now give the floor to the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine – National Deputy Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich for a public declaration of conflict of interest. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u146	I'm announcing a conflict of interest. And I'd like to have a word with you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u147	Thank you. In accordance with articles 31-1, 37 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I now give the floor to the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council, National Deputy Leros Geo Bagratovich. Please discuss the conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u148	I will not announce my conflict of interest and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u149	And in the discussion. Thank you. In accordance with articles 31-1, 37 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I give the floor to the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, National Deputy Hončarenko Alexiyyovich, for the public declaration of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u150	I publicly announce a conflict of interest, and I will not vote and participate in this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u151	Thank you. In accordance with articles 31-1, 37 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I now give the floor to the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, National Deputy Zinkevich Jani Vadimovni, for a public declaration of conflict of interest, please. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u152	I publicly announce a conflict of interest and will not participate in the vote and discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u153	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you my word. Oh, we still have a procedure, please, Mikola Stefanchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u154	In accordance with part six of article 37 of the Supreme Council Rules, a national MP participates in a vote on issues on which he has a conflict of interest under the conditions of public declaration during a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, at which the matter is addressed. I declare a conflict of interest and, in accordance with the rules of the Rules, I will participate in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u155	Thank you. Are there any other claims of conflict of interest? None. We can move on. So the word is given to the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, National Deputy of Ukraine Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u156	Fellow dignitaries, today, I have the honour to stand before you for the second time in office of the Supreme Council on the ninth occasion of my work. First of all, I want to start by saying thank you to the "Servant of the People" faction, which is the Presidential Force, and I've been given a great mandate of trust, and I've put myself in office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. More than two years ago, by giving my report as a candidate for the First Vice-Spyer position, I said that this stage, first of all, we can relate to two main things: trust and responsibility. I believe that these basic fastings have not lost their relevance. Parliament, as the only legislative body, has always been the place where politics and legislation were intertwined. But it seems to me that there are sometimes too many politicians in Parliament, and there are not too many professional laws. The position of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its appointment, I see you and I make every effort, not for the personal pyarius, but to improve the quality of our legislation. Making quality legislation is our main task with you. Let's get this over with. I am very pleased that it was me who was personally involved in those initiatives that could be directly the basis for further improvement of legislation. These are the bill of referendum and law enforcement, and the criminal responsibility for buttoning, and the deradation of legislation, and the re-decidation of civil law, and we've done a lot of these bills with you. We worked in working groups, we discussed, we wanted to make our legislation better, and it's particularly nice that for half of our cadence, according to public organizations, I'm still one of those people's deputies who didn't submit any corruption risk bill. In addition, for the first time in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, we, along with you, have begun to systematically engage in legislative planning. The relevant plans for the 2020-2021 legislative work and the work ahead of them and the work that has not yet been carried out must be done without delay. I hope everyone has my autobiography, but I'm sure in two years of working together you know everything about me, maybe even more about me than I know myself, with my pluses, minuses, with my victories and my mistakes. So unlike other candidates, for me today is, in some ways, a report on my work over the last two years. Dear colleagues, today is symbolic enough, just today on October 7, 1993, the Law on the Name, Structure, and Quantity of the New Parliament of Ukraine was passed. This act first challenged the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a parliament, defined the professional basis for its work, which was a powerful impetus to the development of parliamentaryism in the future. Friends, we have lived together for more than two years, and you and I have a unique chance to prove that Parliament is a place of urgent and important decisions for people, and a state of decision. There are still many challenges and challenges ahead, let us go through them with dignity. And to finish, as I started, I also want to say thank you. I want to thank those national deputies who support and vote for me, and I will try to justify your trust. I want to thank those who won't back me up and vote because it's a guide for me to be better. In particular, I would like to thank my colleagues at the Presidium – Oleni Konstantinovni, who is leading the session today, and Dmitri Alexandrovich, who has been leading our parliamentary ship all this time. I want to thank my colleagues who will be joining me in the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is a great honor and a clear responsibility, but only together can we do it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u157	Heroic glory! Please enroll the National Deputies on a question to the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please log in. Please, Oleg Volosin, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u158	Thank you. Sir, Ruslan, I don't know if you speak French, but you're an expert lawyer and you know exactly the origin of the word "parliament." It's from the French word "parle." This is a place for discussion, first of all. And it's Parliament's job to be a representative of society, of society as a whole. It's unique in this institution, I think, as a professional lawyer you know brilliantly. And that's why parliaments are all over the country. Because society is delegating the right to adopt the laws of that structure, where the whole society is represented, because the President, even for whom 73 percent of the votes have been voted on, has not yet voted 27 percent, and all are represented in Parliament. Are you prepared to guarantee that Parliament will be the place for discussion first and foremost, and, yes, for political discussions? Because it is the will of all the Ukrainian people, not just the electorate of the "Serve of the People." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u159	Thank you for asking. About learning French. [[Speaks a foreign language]] I don't speak French, but I'm a little fluent in English. Dear colleagues, I am very grateful for this question. I fully support the position you're talking about: Parliament is a place for discussion, Parliament is the representation of the whole of Ukraine. And I guarantee that if you trust me, I will do my best to keep it that way. Thank you, Oleg Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u160	Thank you. Yuri Zagradny, "The Opposition Platform for Life", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u161	Thank you. Please pass the word to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u162	Nestor Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u163	Mr. Ruslan, I have two questions for you. First. Today, Ukraine is one of the first places in the world to die from COVID, and one of the last places in Europe, if not the last one today, is at the level of vaccination. They don't have enough vaccination centers, they're only dominant in big cities. I have a question. Will you demand that national deputies wear masks? And the second question. Dmitry Ozumkov significantly increased the possibility of journalists in the towers of the Supreme Council yesterday, but there are limitations. For the purpose of stimulating and demonstrating our respect for vaccination, I appeal to you as the probable future Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to lift all restrictions on journalists who have undergone the full vaccination to be able to move freely through the watchtowers. Your position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u164	Thank you, Reverend Nestor Ivanovich. All I'm going to say to you is, I'm going to answer only on my own example. It seems to me that as much as I wear a mask, I am in this room, perhaps few can boast of it. And so do you, and I thank you very much. The other one. Yes, I've been vaccinated twice, and I think vaccination is what every citizen should be responsible not only for his health, but primarily for the safety of other colleagues who are in the hall, on the street and by the side. So, yes, I will constantly make remarks if someone doesn't follow those limitations, the infectious, epidemiological ones that are provided for in Ukraine's legislation. With regard to journalists and other colleagues who are in Parliament. Of course, I think we're going to consult the medical committee first to understand the logic and mechanics of how we can act within the limits of quarantine within the walls of Parliament, so that it doesn't in any way violate the rights of national MPs or the right of journalists to freedom of speech. But at the same time, everyone here was guaranteed the right to life, health, and personal security. So, I think together we can do it. And if necessary, the appropriate decision can be taken by Parliament. So I think that's fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u165	Galina Tretlyakov, "Serve of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u166	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mr. Ruslan, you're a model of legal activity for me. I want to write one meaningful question about our Rules and three simple ones. How do you feel about having debates in the Ukrainian Parliament? When two forces that are "for" and "against" in a competition that is debated on an intellectual level, they say what is a plus, which is a minus, but not one person's pay attention, but they pay attention to the subject of the bill, and there's such a competition in that. That's the first one. And three more questions. Is there a recipe for correct spam and can there be debates on recipes from correct spam? Will your day - to - day routine be formed, and how do you feel about it? And also your billing plan, which you actually put in place in Parliament. Will the bills adopted by the Supreme Council be given priority in this regard?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u167	Thank you. Thank you very much, Galina Mikolayevno, for the professional question. I'll start with the first one. As I said to Oleg Anatoliyovich, Parliament is a place for discussion. For quality, good, and productive discussions. So if the room decides that the debate is the form that will enable us to raise the level of debate and the level of quality decisions, of course, we will be introducing this and looking for the forms that are best suited to achieve first the quality of Ukrainian legislation. With regard to the billing plan. Of course, I'm deeply convinced that the work being done by the committee, and the work that goes through the Conciliation Council, it shouldn't go into the trash. We must work with you on a strategic plan for the development of Ukrainian legislation. As of today, Ukraine's legislation has more than 1 million legal acts. This is a disaster for the legal system of Ukraine. We're talking about bad courts. There is a question for the courts, but do we all produce together the quality of legislation that will ensure the unity and continuity of judicial practice? I think there's a big problem with that. So, of course, the billing plan is a map of Parliament's work, based on the strategic priorities of our state, which should be taken into account clearly in Parliament's work as the only legislative body of the state. And so if we've made decisions on the draft work plan, we have to move on, we have to do it. We have to do everything we can to make the people of Ukraine understand and know and predict the work of Parliament, and then we could ask whether we've achieved the indicators we talked about or not. But once again, the issue of laws -- it's not a question of quantity, it's a question of the quality of legislation. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u168	Alexius Ustenko, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u169	Ruslan Alexiyovich, congratulations! Congratulations, Madam Chairman! I have two questions. That's the main thing. We have long enough to serve as head of the Supreme Council. We remember that we all voted together here in the Hall in order not to have temporary ministerial duties. Can you please tell me if we have a substitute, or will it be the same? Will he be appointed by the Supreme Council? That's the first question. And the second question, which is the same, before the Rules. Tell me, please, if we really have a bill that we can make a lot of amendments there, that any bill, it can be blocked as to how to deal with it. And maybe if there's a lot of precedents there, maybe we can increase the work time of the Supreme Council so that we can work even more. The "minister of the people" is ready to do this in order to make, many decisions that are needed, which in time, so that we can make them. It's not like you're voting for any changes that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u170	Thank you. With your permission, I'll start with the first question -- the apparatus. Of course, the Supreme Council's apparatus is professional. A very professional institution with an institutional memory that can pass on its knowledge, skills, and skills. But it is right that a specific person should be responsible for each position and for each function in the Supreme Council. Hence, the matter of the Master of Apparatus will certainly stand. But it will be discussed with you, and in the end this decision will be taken by the Ukrainian Parliament. So it seems to me that we will definitely have this discussion. With regard to questions relating to corrective spam or what it is already called in Europe, it is called a correctional tsunami. Of course, I think we need to be very self-responsible so that those quality amendments that are being made that are really important for the adoption of each legislative act, they don't sink into the amount of amendments that are being made for another purpose -- to delay time. But I think we'll find these mechanisms together. But the best mechanism is communication. Because Parliament, once again, is a place for discussion, a place for communication, a place for compromise. So I think together we're going to find the right mechanism that's going to be applied and understood by everyone. It is important not to violate the constitutional rights of national MPs to the legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u171	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Please take your place. The word is given to the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine – Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. Please, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u172	Good day again, dear fellows. I won't take part in the election, I haven't filed the relevant documents and, frankly, I don't see any point in this. So you can think of my performance as self-sustainment. But if I already have the opportunity to speak from this rostrum, I won't take long to say what I'm going to say. First of all, I thank my colleagues for putting me in this position. It is very surprising that the voting positions promised them and placed me in that position. But I'll take the self-sustainment. The other one. I really don't think I'm going to fit you as Head of Parliament. Because I would have done the same thing I did to the previous Head of Parliament, I followed the Rules. And I saw it so much that it's not very appreciated in this room. Third. I believe that the position of Head of Parliament really belongs to either the authorities or the affiliates of the Parliament who cannot say "no" to Mr. President or to his immediate environment in the Office of the President. Again, it is very strange that my colleagues put me in that position. This criterion is followed by other candidates who signed up for this promotion. Dear colleagues, I will not take part in this vote and I see no point in continuing this discussion right now. I see worthy colleagues from the opposition who have put forward their candidacy. This is Geo Leros. At least you'll find it harder for some of the representatives of your team to take him out of the speaker's chair than it is for this rostrum. That's why I'm asking you to support him. She's Zinkiewich. Not only will she be the Head of Parliament, but how will a doctor be able to heal some of those present here, including mental problems. Or, if we want to add the drive, we can appoint a representative of the northern Restoration as Head of Parliament. At least I think the debate is going to get a lot brighter, not just as amended. Dear colleagues, I have come to Parliament, realizing that this is a difficult job, but it has to be done according to the rules. I don't want to be a part of this, so I'm taking down my candidacy and I'm asking you to support my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u173	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. The word is given to the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Leros Geo Bagratovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, I understand perfectly that there is no point in this vote and everything has long been decided in the Office of the President. In the future, I'm going to take off my candidacy, but I want to say a few sentences to you. The position of the Head of the Supreme Council is that of a man who must be separate from all political forces. It must be someone who's not interested in lobbying the interests of the President's Office. Over the past two years, Parliament has changed a lot. Every one of you has changed, we see your approach, your insolent politics, as the President of Ukraine says, has become the foundation. We see that the usurpation of the government of Zelenski leads to dictatorship. Even the leader of your faction said that corruption in the DNA of every Ukrainian. Such people are enemies of Ukraine because they submit to the main enemy of Ukraine, Mr. Zelenski. Next, 2014 When we raised funds to help our soldiers in eastern Ukraine, it was in 2014 that Zelensky purchased apartments in London through the offshore. When Ukrainians died in eastern Ukraine, Zelensky died in the film "8 First Dates" in Moscow. That's in 2014. The President’s office has become the center of corruption for today. We, the Parliament, must become a restraint and an opponent, but Parliament continues to usurp the Green and the Office of the President. Parliament is the last precaution to dictatorship, but you are now putting a controlled person to the maximum extent possible to usurp power. Think of the TSC as "vagres." The President's office did not allow this TSC to be created. And a week ago, we learned that Zelensky was a traitor to Ukraine because he personally failed this special operation and committed treason. He and his Jerman should be in prison. Next. The best question you could ask President Zelenski today is, are you not ashamed, Mr. President, of these two and a half years? You're leaving the only way for people is a revolution because you've completely usurped power. Now instead of taking pictures of Mr. Zelensky (as he once said you could hang pictures of your children), you can hang pictures of Jermak and Zelensky boldly, for each of them became a god and a king for you. You run there and obey them exclusively. And finally. The only thing I want to tell you is, Mr. Jermak and Mr. Zelensky, on behalf of the Ukrainians, that you are a liar, a usurper and a traitor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u175	I understand correctly, Mr. Leros, that you're filming your candidacy? Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] He withdrew his candidacy. Read the Rules. The word is given to the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Pottery Council of Alexiyovich. We continue the drive, please pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u176	Thank you. I can see the joy of colleagues who imagine me conducting the meetings of the Supreme Council. This is extremely pleasant. And I really want to tell everyone what's going on here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The thing is, on the equator, because now in the Green equator, in this Parliament, the equator is exactly half of the term. On the equator, Zelensky decided that he had one term, he needs two. Well, yeah. What are you gonna do? And jealousy began. And there was such a feeling that, well, he's intruding. How can that be? What's more, the Supreme Council, she's got like a dog coming out of Bank's first word. So we need to make a clear change in the situation. That's why we decided to put up with Razumkov. Well, that's what we've all done, as we've all seen. And now we have the position of Speaker of the Supreme Council, she's vacant. By the way, I'd like to remind you of the speaker of the Supreme Council. Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski, speaker is from the word spoken (to speak). And you want everyone to sit here and keep quiet and look at your mouth. Well, that's definitely not gonna happen. And of course, this position is now vacant, and we have to choose a new Head. I want to tell you, my program is very simple: to make the Council supreme again, to make Parliament important again, to turn the Office-President Republic into a parliamentary-presidential republic. To do that, the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to have this phone right over here with "The President of Ukraine," and I'm going to take it out of here and throw it out. He shouldn't be there. This is supposed to be the Parliamentary-President State! And in this country, everyone will do their job. Officer Andrew Jermack will start buying coffee, tea and paper for the printer when it's finished. We're all going to do our own thing. The dining room is owned by Cala-Velur. Alexia was mentioned today. So what I'm saying is, Nestor, he's going to 95 Quarter, because there's nothing to play on the piano that he can play. We have the "national offshore DJ Brown," the name of the national artist of Ukraine, and he'll go with the gastrolas around the country, or maybe around the world, there's something to tell the world. So each one will take care of his own business. Vladimir Zelensky will take care of his business – an international one. He had already visited Oman and Qatar. That's not enough, you have to move on -- Seychelles, Mauritius, Barbados, Antigua. Big program with the President, he can go and do it. And the Ukrainian Parliament will do the job, take care of the state, take care of pensioners, doctors, teachers, wages, tariffs. We will certainly resolve all these questions. We'll be working from morning till night for our citizens. I can promise you that. And we're definitely going to do it 100%. Guys, I mean, let's not have that experience. You have to say it. And by the way, they were talking about languages. [[Speaks a foreign language]] If necessary, we will learn the languages needed to make sure that everyone in the world takes the position of Ukraine and protects it. I have a headship experience in the Odessa District Council. Believe me, this is also a very respectful meeting. And I know how to make arrangements when one runs for what, the other beer bottles pull from the store. I'll get you boys and girls in line. It's gonna be okay here. So, my friends, I've said my programme, I hope for your support. And in the end, I want to. You know, we have a noun in the world today called Vladimir Putin. And I want to, for the first time, let's say and remind this noun Volodymyr Putin of the whole world of Ukrainian folk song, by the way, from Kharkiv. Let's remind him and say, Putin. La-la-la-la-la-la-la-la. That's how it's gonna work!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u177	You'll have some more questions, Alexei Alexiyovich, come back. The only thing I would ask you is not boys and girls, but ladies and gentlemen. Okay? Thank you. Would you please sign up for the questions, dear colleagues, if you have them? Vladimir Timothychuk, please, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u178	Give the word to Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u179	Please, Bujansky, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u180	Dear Mr. Alexei, I was reminded that you had already worked on the Supreme Council of the past. So tell me, what was it that prevented you from taking that phone off and throwing it away when the reverend Peter Alexiyovich was president, was another speaker, Andrew Volodymyrovich, and when 17 votes were voted on, for example, by the Law on Language with Violation of the Rules? Then why didn't you do it, rip the cord off and throw that phone away?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u181	Thank you. That's a very good question. I, by the way, have not only worked in the Supreme Council, I am also a delegate of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and I have this experience. And as for your question, do you understand what this is about? It's about what they're talking about on that phone. When Peter Alexiyovich called Andrew Volodymyrovich, he spoke of the power of the state, the sanctions against the Russian Federation. [[B in m in s a l in]] About protecting the country. That when someone played the piano, someone defended the state. That we should not look anyone in the east, but that we should defend the state. That every day was a fight, and don't fight each other like you did here, but fight the enemy that you've forgotten, and you're giving him the best gift. Here's what happened then, and here's what you've done now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u182	Next question. Alexander Kachura, please, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u183	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. You know, I don't know how the speakers are, but you can be taken to Quarter 95 after this gig. That's the first one. I think you have a good mentor, Andrew Parovia, and you certainly won't violate the Rules. And if you want to say hello to Putin, pass it on through your uncle, who works in Gazprom and 700,000, in the declaration you have displayed, remember, gifted. And the last. Tell me, please, how are you going to connect the work of the Speaker of the Supreme Council with what's going on in Goncharenko? Telegram channel, YouTube channel? How are you going to do all this? Are you an orchestra man or what, Alexei? I'm not done yet. Alexi, please tell me, aren't you ashamed at all? Why don't you take this opportunity to step out of the faction? Don't you remember who passed the trumpet?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u184	Thank you. Well, judging from your question, you're not even going to be taken to the 95th Quarter. Well, Diesel Show doesn't work for you either, because you have to have any data to do that. Second, I personally have a little bit of, you know, a different attitude to humor, and what it should be like. The question is unconscionable. When you ask that, it's very strange to hear. People who are ashamed every day of the world when on the first pages of all the world's editions, the President with the offshores. By the way, B.U., Bakanov, I'll find a case for you, too, and you'll do the offshores again, like you did before for Zelensky. So each one will take care of his own interests, and each one will be responsible for his own. And I, thank God. I want you to sign my internet channel, by the way. Please join my cable. Be sure to sign on Facebook, friends. It's very important. Don't forget your Instagram, folks. And Tick-Tock, Tick-Tock is important too. I work with everyone in every community. And I think that's the right thing to do. These people, they're afraid of Ukrainian citizens at all. They don't know what to tell them. And I know what to say, I work with people and I'll work on it. And Goncharenko is going to move to the Supreme Council, and I'm going to run it here, so thank God. You don't have to worry about that. Only I can say that you, Mr. Kachura, will find no place in this program, because, frankly, it's not very interesting. You become more interesting, and then someone may ask you to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u185	Alexander Kachura, a replica. But please, so that we can finish this discussion more quickly. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm headin'. Replica, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] You've got time, I've given you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u186	Alexi, thank you for the show. I see you're a 95 block fan. But I would also like you to take this opportunity to thank the Party of Regions for the experience they've given you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u187	Sophia Fedina, European Solidarity. Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u188	Please pass the word to Mrs. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u189	Please, Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u190	Dear Mr. Alexia, I fully support your initiative to cut off the meat phone that now connects Parliament to the Bank because it is not really a branch of the Bank. And in this context, I have two questions for you. First. You know, you're the only Ukrainian national deputy to whom Zelensky himself went down from his chair and came into our sector to ask a question there. When you become a speaker, what will you do with the President's chair here? Because guidance can go from here. That's the first question. And the second. Would you like to invite Gončarenko to run Greensky? Because he has a lot of questions in society. First question. He still did not explain his involvement in an offshore scandal. And about, you know, the Offshore President, about this Green Offshore President, all of the world's media wrote. Similarly, he still did not explain his position with regard to his best man, his friend Zhenya, the head of Ukreximbank, who beat up journalists, and we understand that he was involved in financing terrorism. Please invite him to the Goncharenko Runs, too, because it's time to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u191	Thank you. Thank you for asking. I can say one thing. In fact, having this great experience of communicating with the President, when, for the first time in history, the President of Ukraine went down to the session hall to come to me and say he didn't like my speech. Vladimir Alexanderovich, this was just the beginning, all ahead. You can't worry about that. So, of course, the President needs to be reminded of who he is, what he's responsible for in our country. Because I think he's long gone in that warm tub he was wearing, and that's where Andrew Jermak's soul is, and I think he's fine. It's not okay in the country, it's not okay. As long as you're telling us that Ukraine's over everyone, we've got a lot of inflation, we've got people. In a year, sugar, oil, and people were twice as expensive to buy. We have soldiers, friends, soldiers for the eighth year of war, who don’t pay money or pay what they have earned. This is happening today. We don't have to raise those social standards. We're the worst country in the world at the rate of vaccination, the worst. Once again, it's the worst. We have a new wave of COVID to do so. We're full of chaos and trouble. And look at what our majority does at the same time. She's laughing, she's joking, she's putting up with one speaker and she's bringing up another speaker, she can't possibly share a position on which chair she'll sit. It's not about what to do with the green chair, it's about finally understanding that the chair is not the main chair, it's about doing something in this chair. This is a huge problem today in a state that needs to be rectified.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u192	Mikhail Zabrodsky, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u193	Please pass the word to Mary Ionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u194	Maria Ionova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u195	Mr. Alexia, would you please tell me if you were to assume the position of Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if you were to initiate a temporary investigation commission for the theft of Privatbank's funds, after the laundering of Privatbank's funds, which had just been discovered by Pandora Papers, and there is not only the President of the country involved, but also the head of the BSS and the first assistant to President Zelenski? Thank you. Because these are Cologne's funds, where there are already open criminal cases against this person in the United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u196	Thank you. You know, even at the risk of losing some votes for my candidacy right now, I want to say that once Greensky was elected, I put up such a big banner, a "death kiss" he was called, remember, Brezhnev and Goneker. It was a "death kiss" by Vladimir Alexanderovich and Igor Valeriyovich. This is a challenge facing our country today. And Pandora Papers, this Pandora box, this once again has shown us all that this is a huge problem. We need a temporary "vagners" commission to be real, so we don't end up being ashamed of the whole world, but calling it. When the President changes his position every three months: there was no surgery; and, no, there was an operation, but there was an operation, but not a Ukrainian one; and, no, it was Ukrainian, but Lukashenko learned it; and, no, I told Lukashenko. He finally got to it. So finally, you have to tell people the truth about what happened. We need a temporary investigation commission for these, indeed, Pandora Papers, through this box of Pandoras, which has been discovered and shown to all the world that the President, who tells us so about the fight against oligarchs, can't really clean up without the oligarchs, can't, need the oligarchs, can't get the money without them, can't, can't need 41 million dollars, so they came. And everything he does with them in a joint, deadly kiss. And that is the truth that we have today. Of course, the temporary commission of inquiry should work. They have to produce a result. They need to show who is who and who is doing what. And as a result, I'm sure, even so. It's just called the impeachment procedure, it's almost impossible to do. But I'm sure, after the results of these TSCs, we'll get to the impeachment, and then there'll be an order in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u197	Thank you. The word is given to the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Jani Vadimovni Zinkevich, please. Mrs. Jana, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, Yes, please. Please turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank my faction of European Solidarity for my promotion. It was also a surprise to me, as for you, just a few hours ago. Now I want to talk about myself. My name is Jan Zinkevich. Maybe some of you know me. I was recently 26 years old. In 2014, I volunteered and created a volunteer medical battalion called Gospitalieri and led it. Of course, I was much younger, I was only 18, but I couldn’t sit at home, closing my eyes. I completely ruined my plans for further training, and it turns out that right after school, I was on my way to the front. There I met a lot of people who were willing to give their country the most expensive, that's life. And I was one of these people. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u199	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u200	Thank you. And to be honest, I really wanted to have more people in this room who were in the same position guided exclusively by the interests of the country, not including any personal interests or ambitions. When I pulled the wounded on the front, I realized that the country's victory was one for all and all for each other. And I'm very sorry that this room has, very often, quarrels, strife and a solid struggle for power. We have to be one and we have to be together because we have the country's interests ahead of us and they must be the first for us. And you know, my experience has not ended in my direct involvement in combat, commanding the unit and hundreds of volunteers. Now behind my back and creating a successful utility company, where I was able to take our volunteers off the front, who were totally unadopted, unsocialized, set up, run, and help create those institutions and that facility that still saves lives, but already in civilian life, and help teach to save lives. For two years in Parliament, I am also in high office as Secretary of the National Health Committee. I can become truly independent Head of the Supreme Council, where there will be no political intrigue, but there will be only the interests of the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian army. Today we are faced with a choice: to lose Parliament and make it a branch of the President's Office or a truly independent legislative branch capable of making all decisions on its own. For example, vote for my candidacy. I'm sorry I have to speak, and I can't see much. This room is totally unapproachable to people with disabilities, and as you can see, unfortunately, our representation, both veterans and people with disabilities, in the Supreme Council is extremely small. I dream of a free Ukraine, a Ukraine of equal opportunities, an independent protected state where everyone's thinking is important, and where everyone has the right to the future. And this future of every Ukrainian depends on you. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u201	Heroim Slava! Thank you, Mrs. Jana. Please sign up for Mrs. Jana. Dmitry Costuck, please, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u202	Thank you. This is the first time I've seen a truly decent person in the "ES" faction, so I'm going to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u203	Thank you. I think there's no answer here. Galina Tretlyakov, "Serve of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u204	Thank you for your 18-year-old feat. I'm the one sitting here. I thank you for your feat. But what I want to ask you, though, is how will the legislative process be when you head it? Very often, from your faction, from where you came out, there are very often images to the side of our faction. For example, today it sounded like a "screaming" verb. Please tell us, what will be your reaction under article 51, 52 of the Law? And I also want to ask the question that I asked Ruslan Stefanchuk about whether you are ready to introduce the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure? When the opposition unites to stand up against that team, including the Prime Minister and ministers, the debates are held with the participation of politicians who lead the political positions in the Cabinet of Ministers, and they have to communicate. Are you in favor of having a debate and not talking about each other personally?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u205	Thank you. First of all, thank you, of course, for your support. It's about an image and all that. I always support the principles of non-discrimination, which is personally important to me in many ways. Very often, unfortunately, in this Supreme Council, there is no unity and understanding between factions, whether factions are opposing or a fraction of monotonousness. So, of course, I won't support such statements, no matter who they're from. That's the first answer. Thank you. And about the debate. Of course, I would say that I haven't done any analytical work yet on this particular issue, but the idea is good enough, and the experimental method for a certain period is a pretty good idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u206	Heratschenko Irina Volodymyr, please, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u207	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Jana, I hope the hall has now experienced two completely different mental approaches to the appointment of the Supreme Council. I thank you for noting the key that the Head of the Supreme Council should represent, not the faction, not the party, but the entire Parliament, which he must unite. You know, I was looking at the hall, and I saw for the first time the same thing in a fraction of the vast majority of eyes that had respect. This is important to us because you have united the hall with your presentation. And you, when you become Head of the Supreme Council, will also enter the Security and Defence Council. Will you initiate the meeting as a representative of this council immediately to hear the issue of the Ukrainian army? That for the first time since 2014, there is a debt to our military 2 billion 300 million dollars. Among which, Jan, you and I have been on the front a dozen times together, you know, for the first time there's debt even for housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u208	Thank you for asking. This is really an extremely important subject. Yes, I would immediately initiate the meeting because I am a veteran myself, and I have recently also visited the front, not only my unit, but also the Armed Forces and other forces. And there are sufficient complaints, both in terms of security and in terms of quality human resources. And of course, one of the most painful is, of course, the payment or non-payment of one or the other bonuses, and the non-encumberment of wage increases and premium payments to our military personnel. I'm sure we'll be looking at the budget completely for next year, which is that we should pay more attention and more money to our military personnel. Because they are the basis for you and me to be safe in this room, that our children, families at home can be completely safe. And we have to give some information to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u209	Thank you. Please Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u210	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u211	Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u212	Dear Ukrainians! We are extremely proud of the quality of "European Solidarity", the best representative of which we are delegating to the highest office in this room today, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We are convinced that Jan Zinkevich is the new face that will lead to the presidency over the last two years of the rule of a high European political culture. And actually, among European traditions, among the traditions of equality that Jan spoke about today is the issue of gender equality. Unfortunately, in this Parliament, we have all witnessed the humiliation of women, sexism, discrimination. Unfortunately, it was very common from the majority and women themselves did not always demonstrate here, you know, such a union to protect and protect themselves from it. I want to say that I, for example, have been the subject of such sexism today by a single member of the jury. How will we protect ourselves in the European Parliament against sexism and discrimination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u213	Of course, compliance with the standards of nondiscrimination is the obligation of every member of our delegation. But above all, the head of the Supreme Council has to regulate, observe, and see to it that these standards are always adhered to. I very much welcome the fact that there are, fortunately, 20 percent of women versus 11 percent in this Parliament who have been called before. In fact, fortunately, there are more of us. But I also want to point out and invite that, like on the front, we have a very common theme of sorority. I mean, regardless of what units there are, what troops, where positions, there are all kinds of solidarity among women. And we, too, will find it really much easier for respectable girls and women to defend our interests, including through unification. There is no discrimination against other categories, and, above all, we must protect ourselves. And I'm willing to do that if I'm the head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u214	Thank you. Olena Fraschenec, Servant of the People, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u215	Thank you. Mrs. Jana, with all due respect to you, to your affairs, to your feats that have been done to you. But I looked at the vote on Bill 5599 on the oligarchs, and you weren't there that day. Can you explain to the Ukrainian people how you view the oligarchs? What position do you have as candidates for the presidency of the Supreme Council? And do you not think that these oligarchs have not done enough to prevent what is happening in the east and what happened to Crimea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u216	Thank you. First of all, I would like to make it clear that I really did not attend this and the next day in the Supreme Council. I was summoned by a message when I suffered in a criminal case before a court elsewhere. As a result, she was absent for two days. As far as the bill on oligarchs is concerned. Indeed, this subject is relevant and important to us. We need to understand that in my opinion, the oligarchs in this country may be considered monopolies in our country because monopolies are the most dangerous states. I mean, when this bill was being considered, frankly, I didn't see any serious threat to Ahmet and so on. And this, for me, is considered illogical enough, and I'm speaking for the idea of further elaboration of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Jana, for your answers to your questions. Dear colleagues. Yes, please, Mikola Knieżicki. We have another minute, really, I'm sorry. Mikola Knieżicki, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u218	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Jano, now more than 15,000 in Ukraine, has died. We have a catastrophic situation with the spread of COVID. You've done a lot to change our medical field, and I know how you've come across misunderstandings. What does Parliament need to do to finally stop this complete irresponsibility and disrespect for the lives of people in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u219	Fortunately, the fundamental change and the very first change we had to make, namely, the release of the previous minister of health, Stepanova, had already taken place. Fortunately, the newly elected minister is Mr. Lazko, who is competent enough to serve. He was able to start mobile vaccination sites, including our support as the National Health Committee. But it must be understood that our citizens still have some misunderstandings about the need for vaccination as to why it is safe, why it can be trusted. There is a general mistrust in the medical system. So, of course, it's important to take some complex measures. On the one hand, it is enlightened among the population, both on the part of the Supreme Council and on the part of each MP and of the ILO, health departments in place. Although these standards are not pleasant enough, it is vital that we conduct what is rightly called conversations with our family doctors first. Because they are the first link between the patient and the possibility of accessing vaccines. We need to understand that the world’s pandemic just won’t go away in a year or two. It will gradually fade out in countries where we have vaccinated citizens, where more than 80 percent are vaccinated. And unfortunately, even here, we have only 50 percent of the vaccines in the Supreme Council, according to recent information. So even on our committee, which was proposed yesterday, by the way, Mr. Raducky, there was a decision on the prohibition of visiting the Supreme Council as well as other state buildings, as it will now be throughout Ukraine, unvaccinated assistants, deputies, other visitors, journalists, to do. And so it has to be throughout the country. That is, creating a certain privilege and an improvement for the vaccinated, but without limiting the rights of the unvaccinated. We understand, yes, maybe not all of them. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, I want to emphasize if we have a red zone, please remember the previous years. All the facilities work, no one goes anywhere, only the Supreme Council, and maybe a few more structures work. But at the same time, if citizens are vaccinated now in the red zone, they're going to need it. It's a privilege. And they can take and visit one or the other facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u220	Thank you, thank you. We have just discussed the issue and discussed the question of the candidate for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mrs. Jana Zinkevich. Dear colleagues, I continue our meeting for 15 minutes. That's what I can do. And now we're moving on to speeches from MP factions and groups. So I'd like you to sign up for this discussion, please. Irina Heratschenko, please, "European Solidarity." Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u221	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is now experiencing a classic parliamentary crisis, and we absolutely sincerely want to help get out of it. I'm absolutely happy that most of you have now discovered to themselves Jana Zinkevich, who we have known since the 14th year, and who can really help us get out of the nightmare that this Parliament has entered. The Supreme Council of Ukraine really has to demonstrate that this is an independent state institution, that this is the foundation of democracy in Ukraine, that this is the foundation of the changes that we want with you. Ukraine must become a European, independent, democratic and strong state if we are to serve the people here with you in the first place, not the party interests. And Jana, who is capable of uniting Parliament, is capable of demonstrating a new political culture, the new one that the electorate had expected two years ago, in what they believed. I want some. He'll respect it. She is a very modest person and she has few very important facts not told about herself. It's awarded the Order of Merit, the Order of Life Save, because behind it and the Gospitaliers, there are thousands of lives saved by our soldiers. You know, Parliament today needs salvation, and the souls of many here equally need salvation. Let's give this a chance. Other candidates were discussed here today. I'll allow myself, you know, to say that I also took a high place in the Presidium. That's my first statement after Parliament gave me the honor, the previous summons, of becoming the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I immediately gave up my guard and became the first Vice-Spyer to refuse protection. Unfortunately, my successor did the first thing -- he got his protection back. And in fact, two absolutely mental approaches to what politics should be and how Ukrainian politics should develop. We are for European, open, modern, equal, without discrimination, where we respect opposition, where there is freedom of speech, politics. Unfortunately, today you are demonstrating that you are ready to forget about dignity and honor, that there is room in this House for discussion, which can be criticized here, imagine, even the President. Because today he is criticized in the markets and in the subways, in the army, and in the hospitals. And you and I don't represent the Bank, not the Party, first of all, but the people who chose us here. Let's give democracy, the Dignity Revolutions to grow up here as roots, and make the Speaker of the Supreme Council worthy and the best among us, the only real new face here, based on our principles, Jan Zinkevich. She will, believe me, be able to protect the Rules and Parliamentarianism.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u222	Vladimir Moroz, please, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u223	Please give Schuffritch Nestor Ivanovich the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u224	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, you will have your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u225	Thank you, ma'am. I did a good job, didn't I? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u226	That's very correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u227	Dear colleagues! Well, first of all, separate Alexeis. You know, after a man in the city of Odessa in the mountains created a faction called Yanukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u228	In English only, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u229	And then someone is taught consistency and still reminds them of this very political power about some offshore, well, it would be better to keep quiet. Well, I'm sorry, there's such a sin - warmed up. But they did. By the way, Yanukovich has renounced it. Yesterday, I gave up the powder. I don't know how they'll deal with each other. Was that so, Peter Alexiovich? Yeah, sure, but I'm asking you to comment on everything he's saying, it's interesting. Dear colleagues, I've come to say it, I've got two feelings right now. The first feeling is I should be happy. Because for the first time, we see a real split in the green field in the Ze-command field. Well, this split, you'll see its consequences. They will be what – it is already up to Dmitri Razumkov. By the way, I want to thank him for working with us. But I'm against cynicism. Mr. Sergei (I don't see him), you were talking about our colleague and friend Medvedchuk, the TV channels. That's how you lived on these channels, but you didn't come out. When all your channels were closed, that's where you and your team stood. And, frankly, I cried when you welcomed Dmitri Razumkov to the next Parliament. But after your vote today, I kind of think you're going to see Reasonable from the TV or from the balcony, but not from this room. So let's do without cynicism. I always respect my opponents who are opponents. I've always condemned cops. And you know, people who betray their own, and then they bark at their ex-partners and thinkers for the sake of service, people like that, and they're not on our way. I'm on principle, even my opponents, and condemning any unprincipledness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u230	Sergey Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u231	I am not surprised that the predecessor did not mention President Zelensky, who closed the channels in his decision. What is it? What happened? But he mentioned my statement, where I made it clear that if a person is accused of treason or accused of financing terrorism, there is no court decision, I am not a judge and I am not a prosecutor, there can be no guarantee of such action. So please listen, and this is my principle position regardless of which channel it is and where it is and who it does not support. With regard to today’s question. I think for the first time, maybe for the first time in 30 years, we're going to come up with the question of choosing a speaker, not based on whose political agenda he is, but on what task he is in front of Parliament. Until the Rules restore the entire chapter on the order of the opposition, the order of work of the majority, we will never get any work done in Parliament. We accepted this chapter when we were in opposition. At that time, we gave the opportunity: the first vice-speaker — from opposition, the budget committee — from opposition, the Committee on Freedom of Speech — from opposition, the regulatory committee — from opposition. But Janukovic, who had just been praised here, came, and this chapter was thrown out of the Law of the Rules at all. Why is it not restored? Why is the seventh year not restored? How can Parliament work under these conditions? The second question is, actually, the Head of the Supreme Council. It is he who must unite this room, regardless of the political views for one reason -- it is the adoption of decisions that must be taken from all sides, where everyone's voice must be heard, why decisions cannot be adopted, why it is better than others. And then the question of spam, the question of the question of why some or other adjustments are like that, will come to an end. That's why, after listening to all the applicants, I think, and we've consulted the faction that the best candidate is Jan, who will be able to organize this work out of her life experience, based on her understanding of the organization of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u232	Mikhailo Laba, please, Servant of the People.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Political Party "The Servant of the People" was determined by the following speaker: Doctor of Legal Sciences, Academician, Ruslan Stefanchuk. Please proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u234	Thank you. Well, we won't be able to make it to the vote today. Please, Peter Alexiovich Dustenko. I'm sure I'll keep giving you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u235	Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, I would like to point out when the fifth column and the faithful suture of Putina are drawing on our political power -- this is a powerful confirmation that we are doing everything right, making the right decisions and moving in the right direction. But I would like to stress separately that today, in addition to the chaos in which the country in the economy, in energy, in the pandemic, in defence, in foreign policy, the ruined coalition created by our team, has added to this the parliamentary crisis. I call upon all who are in this room to make a decision in a calm and balanced manner in support of Jana Zinkevich, because you have seen her new right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u236	Vladimir Aresonkov, Trust Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u237	Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, the Trust MP group carefully studied the materials presented by the candidates and listened to the basic programming principles. And we define that, of course, there are candidates and pretenders and bright, powerful politicians, there are high moral and highly worthy candidates. But if we go from a professional point of view, and given the situation that has occurred, there are some contradictions in the organization of work between the various factions, political groups, and that we will still have a great deal of work to do to achieve a real understanding of consensus, tolerance in relations, in the preparation and adoption of extremely important legislation. So, given the totality of all our demands and wishes, we still think that the most appropriate candidate is Mr. Ruslan Stefanchuk. I would like to emphasize that he was working on renewal, such as those chapters in the Rules that were mentioned today. It's about the X, the X, the X, that talked about the opposition, the coalition in the Supreme Council. Today, he is working on the direction of international relations. And once again, given all these circumstances, the "Trust" MP group will vote for Mr. Stefanchuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-07-m0.u238	Thank you. All those who wanted to speak from MP factions and groups, respected colleagues? They're all here. It's too early to vote. We still have speeches from the national deputies, so we will continue to discuss the matter tomorrow. And now I declare our meeting closed. I'll remind you that we have an emergency meeting at 4:00, and we're all waiting here. And tomorrow we will continue to discuss this issue. Thank you.
