ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, media officials! I'm glad to see you after such a long break. Let's get back to our work. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we are today holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the request of 150 Ukrainian national deputies to review the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of debtors in the settlement of outstanding debt (registration No. 4241). Draft Act amending Chapter IV of the Final Transitional Regulations of the Ukrainian Consumer Credit Act (Registration No. 4475). Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the restructuring of foreign currency loans and the adaptation of the insolvency procedure (registration No. 4398). Draft Law on Amendments to Article 9 pr. 2 The Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices on the National Registration of Vaccines or Other Medical Immunobiological Substances under Commitment (Registration No. 5247). Draft Law on Time Calculation in Ukraine (Registration No. 4201). [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion. It's different for colleagues here. But wait, we haven't started our session yet, we haven't registered. Please prepare to register. As I always remind you, registration takes place by pressing the green button, the first button on the left, using the sensor button. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[13:51:21]] There are 300 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, there's been another motion for a break with a replacement for the performance. Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Now I'm going to talk about vaccination, about the lie and the powerlessness that's trying to shift from a sick person's head to a healthy one. You were trying to claim the opposition against vaccination. Remember, opposition is for vaccination and calls on everyone to conduct it. The truth is, there are no vaccines in power! The government only carried 500,000 vaccines. And if you try to register at the Dia portal right now, at best you'll be rejected for 10-15 years. The government is lying, and this lie is now declared in a study conducted by an authoritative fiction association. Vladimir Zelensky stated: Ukraine will be among the first countries to purchase a vaccine. You're lying! Health Minister Stepanov promised that the vaccination in Ukraine would begin on February 15. You're lying! Victor Ljasko, chief driller, claimed that by the end of February, Ukraine would receive one million doses of AstraZeneca. You're lying! He argued that Ukraine would receive 117 thousand doses of Pfizer vaccines in February. On February 19, a zero. You're lying! Stepanov stated that we expect CoronaVac to be delivered by March 6th with all the necessary performance documents. You're lying! Zelenski said that I would be vaccinated right away, but not in the first wave, which is intended exclusively for doctors. Because it's wrong, lying. And despite their attempt to take a physical vaccination campaign, I firmly believe that we will not give them a reason right now to delay, delay the vaccination. The law is ridiculous, but I'm underlining, we've both supported ad hoc today, and we demand that this ridiculous law be passed now, but for a short period of time. We've improved it by protecting patients from inadequate vaccines, putting responsibility on Greens and the Ministry of Health and on government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u3	Another statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u4	Dear colleagues! Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich! In addition to the issue of vaccination, which is now the most important issue in the country, vaccination, the issue of population debt at tariffs, the rise in tariffs and, in general, what is happening in the Ukrainian energy market. See what's going on in the last year. For the first time in the history of the country, on February 1, the debt was 81 billion dollars. It's official statistics. That's plus 7.4 billion dollars in just one January month. And plus 27.6 billion dollars for the heating season. You'll think about these numbers. Moreover, in all of Ukraine’s January month history, the largest number of municipal tariffs in the history of Ukraine has been issued to people for 30.8 billion dollars. There's never been a bill like that, it's more than a billion dollars to the public. Think about what's going on. Almost 30 percent rose compared to January of last year, accounting increased by 30 percent. By 10 percent, compared to December. This tells us that we have a completely inefficient system of the Ministry of Energy and the government that just let go of this situation and that they don't even manage municipal tariffs or think about how to solve population issues, help pay off those debts. I remind you, 81 billion is a crazy number for the population of Ukraine. And so we've been saying over and over again, I'll say again, our MP group needs to finally get from the government: what is the real debt of the Energoatom; what is the debt in the energy market of Ukraine; what is the debt to alternative sources of electricity, this is the solar, wind generation and so on, there is also 25 billion, it seems already; how many atomic generations are responsible for the equipment provided and how much more money is needed to supply equipment for the safe operation of Ukrainian nuclear stations. And all these questions have to be asked in Parliament, we have to see the answer. In our calculations, today the balance sheet is full of energy, about 150 to 200 billion dollars. That's what the energy supply of the system is all about. Naftogaza is the same story. We've repeatedly asked the government how much gas has been produced; what is the cost of this gas; what is the cost of the gas that is supplied after the import; who are the suppliers, the intermediaries that supply the gas that is called the European gas, even though they are none of these companies producing this gas, are pure offshore intermediaries. And all these questions have to be put to Parliament to get the government to finally show what's really going on. Then the tariffs will be resolved, and people will be given the opportunity to lower these tariffs. We can see how this can be solved. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u5	Another break with a replacement for the performance. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u6	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, yesterday, using the possibility and the minimum during the consideration of amendments, asked, demanded, begged that if there was an emergency session, there should be questions about how to regulate the tariff policy in our country. People can't pay the tariffs that are now there and write their bills. I can't. Payments are irresistible. That's why we're asking you to reorient your own gas to the needs of the population. Many decisions have been proposed, including other factions, to reduce the burden on the municipal services of our citizens. We can't be heard, we're being ignored. And you know, we can't accept that. We're seeing the performance of creating a commission of inquiry. And then what? So let me be clear, you want these investigation committees as badly as anyone else is afraid of them. It's already some kind of intercom between 5 and 6 presidents. So come on, we don't need to be fooled. We agreed there'd be an emergency session, we'd be discussing tariff issues. We were waiting, yesterday you scared us that you'd pick us up at 3:00, and we were ready. Today we are holding a second consecutive session, and we do not want to address the issue of tariff policy. Most people today do not want to know what hurts people. We're now looking at a failed policy to combat COVID. We are the last in preparation for the elimination of the consequences and protection of our citizens and the ninth in the world today by the number of patients. And we're told, "All good, beautiful Marquis, only a horse died somewhere." So, dear colleagues, our position is principle. As long as we don't go back to considering bills that will substantially reduce the burden on people to pay municipal tariffs that are unfair today, and 93 percent of our citizens say that they can't pay today's utility tariffs, pay for gas, pay for electricity. So the position of our faction is the next. We had a nice, honest meeting, as we agreed to. Nobody told us, only in the last minute did we know that six questions at least will be put into the second next session. None of them are about tariff policy, about reducing the burden of paying our citizens' utility tariffs. Therefore, our faction leaves a meeting in protest, except for one member who serves his duties as a ministerial servant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u7	Dear colleague, you have signed a letter of urgent consideration of the matter, which is included in the agenda of the day's extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council. Nestor Ivanovich, I'm addressing you, you. Right? So to say you didn't know that, well, let's not lie to people. Politics, but let's be honest. Thank you. Let's get to it. Let's move on to the first question of the agenda. You have been proposed to amend some of the Ukrainian legislation on the protection of debtors in the settlement of overdue debt (registration number 4241). Dear colleagues, do I understand correctly that no one insists on law enforcement? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of debtors in the settlement of overdue debt (registration No. 4241). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:03:43]] For 274 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Next question. Show the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 206, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 2, "The European Solidarity" – 20, "The Fatherland" – 8, "The Future Party" – 11, "The Voice" – 14, "The Trust" – 4, "The Non-Factional" – 9. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending Chapter IV of the Act on Consumer Credit (Registration No. 4475). Dear colleagues, we agreed that one bill would be considered by a reduced procedure, two others related to it, and we would consider it without discussion. Is there no objection? It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[2:04:55]] For 224 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy of Kinshasa, Victoria Alexandrovna, is invited to attend. Please give me four minutes both from the authors and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like to remind you that on April 21st, we are losing the validity of the Law on the Moratorium on Securing the Property of Ukrainian Citizens, which is provided as collateral for loans in foreign currency. We all understand that the moratorium is not the solution to the problem, it's just the freeze for a while. The citizens of Ukraine, who are at risk of losing their only home, look forward to the adoption of the bill. Bill 4455 was passed by me and other people’s deputies, providing for a mandatory restructuring of debts for all consumer loans granted to individuals in foreign currency. As a result of the discussions, the Main Committee concluded that specific recommendations had been made for the drafting of the bill for second reading. In the final analysis of these recommendations to the committee, Bill 4475 should include such provisions. First. Expansion of the bill only on housing mortgages, which are now covered by the Act on moratoriums on the acquisition of Ukrainian citizens' property, provided as collateral for foreign exchange loans. So the only place to live is a mortgage, including an unfinished housing facility and a property right where the borrower lives, up to 140 square meters -- for the apartment and up to 250 square meters -- for the apartment. From me, I'll add that to the second reading we also plan to take a separate look at the issues of internally displaced persons. For example, the existence of a mortgage in a temporarily occupied area cannot be a reason to refuse restructuring. The requirement for permanent housing in a mortgage may not apply to mortgages in a temporarily occupied territory, or so forth. The extension of the bill's activities only to those loans that on January 1st, 14th, were not due, except for the outstanding debt due from the payment of the insolvency and other payments due in connection with the deadline, or the late debt incurred by January 1st, 14th, had been repaid until the day of the restructuring. The restructuring takes place on the basis of the creditor’s claim made by the creditor. Debt conversion in a bracelet is done at an average rate, namely the average rate between what was at the time the loan was issued and what would be at the time of the restructuring. All debts of instability, fines, and foam are cancelled. A previously paid disability is due to the repayment of the body’s credit and interest. In retrospect, the interest rate on credit is decreasing and is set to half of the Ukrainian rate index at 12-month deposits of natural persons in the corresponding foreign currency. In view of what has been said, please support the decision of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs, which decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Ukrainian law amending Chapter IV of the Act on Consumer Credit (for loans in foreign currency) (Registration No. 4475 of 09.12. The 20th, introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputies of Kinsburg and others, as a basis. To entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the financing of the proposed bill and to adopt it as a basis, and to continue the act of the Ukrainian Act on the moratorium on the acquisition of Ukrainian citizens' property, provided as collateral for loans in foreign currency, at the time of the restructuring. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u9	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u10	I ask you to pass the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u11	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u12	Honorable Presidium, Your Honorable Fellows, Honorable Ukrainians! In fact, this is a global problem for the country. A large number of Ukrainian citizens took out foreign exchange loans in 2006-2008 because the conditions under them were much more economically advantageous than their own loans. And unfortunately, they took this huge amount and didn't even give themselves an answer as to what it was. By 80, 100,000 dollars each, the family averaged for the purchase of housing for such monetary loans. Of course, I don't know what they were counting on, but there is this problem, and many people have these problems. The moratorium is over. Is it proposed that both the banking system and the citizens be satisfied? No, it's not. Illiteracy, unprofessional. In fact, today we should send a second read to read again, and I'll explain why. The rapporteur has just said, not the text of the basic draft law, but what is written in the committee’s decision, which should be included in the text of the basic law before the second reading. And this is what you've asked all the questions that are now not only impossible for the banking system to implement, but I'm sure banks and the National Bank will appeal for the President's veto. Because absolutely recently Kirill Shevchenko said that 40 billion dollars was spent, and he's proposing to create a specialized financial court to ensure that these loans are collected, including the left-hand side of those loans. I don't know where the National Bank is going to look. But now we're going to talk about, you know, we're going to have to recalculate the principal body debt of the loan, written in the draft law, at the rate of the currency.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u13	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u14	Please pass the word to Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u15	Count the loans, all the debt at the rate on the date of the restructuring, and the reporter just said that this would be the average rate between the rate on the date of receipt of the loan, and on the date of the restructuring, this is the rate 17. Banks ask, what are we going to do next? And now for the percentages. You can imagine, though, everyone remembers that there were complex percentages and they were very high. So the committee's decision and the draft law provide that all of the debt by percentage will be converted into an average percentage, 50 percent of the Ukrainian interest index at 12 months' interest rates. You know what these average monthly rates are now, $1.04 per dollar, and the euro is 0.43. So the banking system doesn't do anything that's done in a forced order about them, because they're still going to have to pay the people who have already partially paid off these loans and the percentages behind them. And this is what the Association of Banks of Ukraine refers to both our committee and the Head of the National Bank. It seems to me that there is a definite need to resolve the matter. The moratorium was definitely a temporary move, and it has been going on for a long time since 2014, beginning. But think, please, banks will pay people back, the country will lose the income tax that banks pay. So of course it's a populist decision, it's going to be supported in the hall. But I hope that the second reading will have a mind to deal with more or less acceptable issues and with the banking system as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u16	Next. Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Who will be motivated to speak? Nikolainka, Getmants, Shahov, I see. Turn on your father, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u17	Please pass the word to Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u18	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u19	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Victoria Kinsburg had a very good account of the bill. I realize that's not fair enough, because there are other bills from our colleagues that have been submitted before, and also about these issues, and about foreign exchange consumers. But I want to fill out the last speaker a little bit. We realize that yes, maybe it's unfair bets, maybe it's an unfair solution to the question, but people have really been robbed, as they say in the people as sticky. I've been approached by money borrowers on a number of occasions, and I'm just going to read one of the references, the quote, just to understand the situation. A man took a $66,000 loan for an apartment, and in 11 years, he paid $41,000 -- interest and $8,000 -- a body loan. And ask, it's fair, when a person actually pays, they don't refuse a bank, they try and pay off the loan, and they stay with their property, and they don't end up with a family on the street. Is that fair? Fair enough. We have to solve this situation. If the past authorities couldn't do it, we have to do something right now. I realize it's not the best bill, but we're going to support it, because other bills are somehow, as always, and as far as tariffs as my colleague has said are concerned, and as far as other issues are concerned, they don't go into this room. Well, you have to vote for this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u20	Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u21	Good afternoon, colleagues! Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. Fatherland will support the bill. Indeed, there have been many initiatives from various factions, including ours. Julia Timoshenko took an active part in the discussion directly on our committee. The question of monetary lenders is long overdue and the moratorium is clearly a temporary solution. I want to remind you that the bill proposes restructuring itself. This is not forgiveness. But it is important to understand that the Council’s first step to correct this mistake, which was once made, has already done so by banning consumer lending in foreign currency, is today just a bracelet. Accordingly, we must avoid such problems in the future. On the other hand, there is something to work on between the first and the second readings. Appropriate refinements will be provided, as the reporter has already said. So please back up, and that's a matter that's mature, and we have to decide. Although the banks will really be in pain, I support Nina Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u22	Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u23	Dear colleagues, in April there is a moratorium on borrowing from monetary lenders. That's why we're looking at this bill today. I do not agree that this is an unfair decision. Indeed, debts should be paid by all, but should they pay the debts that three times exceed the first amount that people have received? Should a person who pays his credit in good faith for several years be evicted from his last home, evicted from his children? It's a compromise, a painful compromise that we have to make. The banking system and the money lenders, who also disagree with this compromise in their entirety, but we have to solve this problem, from which the head of the sand has been buried for 10 years. No one else can solve this problem. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u24	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u25	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, on another occasion, the authorities are transferring their responsibilities to the parliament. To what time will this occur? Why are we not discussing today's ban on electricity tariffs? When my grandmother picks up, I say, the payment is in her hands, and she gets hit with the flow. Why is it that the issue of heat is not being considered today after tariff cuts? Why is it that the issue of payment to miners of wages is not being considered today? Today, they sit in debt like silk. We're looking at this in the banking field. Please tell me that we are once again separating people and hitting the foreheads, some paying in currency, and others not paying in currency, and so on. What will happen next on the streets? The authorities should be responsible for what is happening in the state today, and not in any way do they place Kabmin’s responsibility in Parliament today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u26	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of proposals by the Committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in the preparation for the second reading, in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending Chapter IV of the Final and Transitional Provisions of Ukraine's Consumer Credit Act (for loans granted in foreign currency) (Registration No. 4475). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:21:31]] For 265 Decision taken. Thank you. The next question is not discussed. Right? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the restructuring of foreign currency loans and the adaptation of insolvency procedures for natural persons (registration No. 4398). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:22:18]] For 260 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Committee's proposals for a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (restructuring foreign exchange liabilities and adapting the procedures for the insolvency of natural persons) (registration No. 4399). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:23:00]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending article 9-2 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices for the State Registration of Vaccines or Other Medical Immunological Devices for Obligations (this is registration number 4257). Dear colleagues, this is a question on which to ask all factions and groups. Sorry, 5247. Deputies and groups regarding his urgent consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, we're voting. Did everyone say that? May I? I see your holiday is coming. You wear a mask, or you may not get close. Dear colleagues, first of all, we need to apply the so-called code procedure. For this, it is necessary to raise 226 votes for the Ukrainian national deputies. Afterwards, decide to include the bill in the agenda of the day session and apply the ad hoc procedure to deal with the issue at today's plenary session. Then the procedure is shortened. Ready to vote? As for the approval of the proposal that came from all the MP factions and groups regarding the immediate consideration of the bill. Please support and vote. [[14:25:03]] For 246 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to include Bill No. 5247 in the agenda of the bill. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:25:34]] For 242 Decision taken. Next question. We need to decide to declare the bill urgent and to shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills until the day of the extraordinary plenary meeting on 19 March 2021, pursuant to article 101 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 5247). Ready to vote? Please support and vote 5247. [[14:26:21]] For 242 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[14:26:46]] For 232 Do we vote without discussion? Everyone agrees. Offers on the basis and in general. Is there no objection? I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the article. Excuse me, the position of the committee. We need to take into account the technical law and the committee's proposals. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u27	My colleagues, I'm very cramped. There's just some changes to the text. That's why we have to post them under the transcript. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of a first reading, the adoption of the draft Act amending article 9-2 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices for the National Registration of Vaccines or Other Medical Immunological Substances for Commitments (registration number 5247), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the basis of and generally as a law, taking into account the proposals of the committee, which I have made and which I have concluded. And entrust the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to carry out its technical and legal work in preparation for the signing of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Sound, excuse me, yes, two clarifications. Medical personnel are relieved of their responsibility if they follow instructions on the use of such vaccines. And the second. The Cabinet of Ministers will develop, within a two-week period, regulations that will allow the State to pay compensation to people in case of vaccine complications.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u28	Is this on the committee's decision? This is indicated in the committee’s decision. Shall we go to the vote? I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 9 Prime. 2 The Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices on the National Registration of Vaccines or Other Medical Immunobiological Substances under Commitment (Registration No. 5247). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. That's the basis, there's no committee decision here. [[14:29:34]] For 238. Decision taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal remedies, draft Law registration number 5247. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[14:30:17]] For 236 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" – 205, "Response Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 7, "Party for the Future" – 8, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 11, "non-factional" – 5. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Time Calculation in Ukraine (registration number 4201). Someone's going to insist. At that time, the head of the Economic Development Committee, Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyyovich, is invited to the floor. What adjustments? 46, Viatrowich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u29	First, I'd like to ask for confirmation 44, 47, 48, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u30	46, you said on count and three on confirmation after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u31	Okay, then I'm asking for time first. My amendment envisions the implementation of the Association Agreement on the synchronization of the transition to summertime with the European Union. We're being given a break in summer time as a triumph of European integration. But it's the other way around. The EU countries will be in summer six days, and by October we will have the same time with Paris, Madrid, but there is nothing good here. Because we fall out of the natural time zone, where Finland, Bulgaria and Baltia. When Kiev has its first hour, Bucharest, which is western, will have its second hour. Here's the absurdity you're proposing. Why is this being done? Why suddenly create problems for airlines, for transportation, for all those who have planned their jobs? Let us deal with such issues in advance and in sync with the European Union. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u32	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u33	Thank you. The great report, see above all, on the difference of time zones and on European integration. Of course, there was a resolution in 2018 of the European Commission, and then in the 19th year, the European Parliament voted on a document that just suggested moving away from this system of transition for summer and winter. As for what time zone we have. I specifically received documents from the National Scientific Center of the Institute of Metrology and other U.S. State Science and Production Centers of Standardization, Metrology, Certification. In support of these documents, they determine that we have the only time zone of our own UTC+2. So we're not going to be in UTC+1 or UTC+3. He is the only one, and we will, in principle, be in him. So it's very important. And this isn't even about where it's going to be, where it's going to be, where it's going to be. We now have a so - called reference time scale. So from their point of view, as they suggest, it's the UTC+2, which is what author Ruslan Stefanchuk suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u34	I'll bet you a vote of 46. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:33:55]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Three other validations. Then I'll just put them in for confirmation. 44, number number number. Are you going to perform? Every one? Just give me one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u35	Please place on confirmation and do not support amendments 44, 47 and 48. These amendments provide that the law is in operation immediately, not three months later, as was foretold in the first reading. The goal is obvious: Breaking the summer shift from March 25th. Despite the widespread perceptions of the European Union countries, they are moving into summer time as always, and Ukraine falls out of a time zone that now shares with Finland, Romania, and the Baltic States. The European Union has been advising on this for two years and is continuing this discussion for another year. And we do this all of a sudden, we create chaos for transportation, for business, for management systems. I don't understand. What's the rush? Please don't support the license 44, 47 and 48. Once again, the European Union has not yet decided on this issue. If we want to talk about synchronization with the European Union, this law is against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u36	Let's vote. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u37	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear speaker, look, if your amendment comes into force now and the law doesn't come into force right now, we're going to go to summer time and stay on it, we're going to have a UTC+3 time zone. This is the time that today is in Moscow, for example. If we stay in that time zone. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, wait, let me finish, please. UTC+3. If we stay in today's Eastern European time zone, it's Athens, Bucharest, Vilnius, Chisinau, Riga, Sofia, Tallinn, Helsinki. If we were to move to UTC+1, it's a central European time. Well, I'm not offering a neighbourly time, but you're offering. So I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-03-19-m2.u38	I'll bet you 44 votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't scream, please. 44 lashes. It's supported by the committee. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[2:36:55]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. I'll bet you 47 votes. It's supported by the committee. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:37:23]] For 212 Decision taken. No, I'm sorry. Forty-seven lashes. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. I'm betting on confirmation. 48 lacquers. Please support and vote. [[14:37:57]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a proposal for acceptance. I'm going to put this decision first anyway, even if it's the second time again, it's going to be another vote. I'm putting the committee's decision first. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law on Time Calculation in Ukraine (registration No. 4201). Please support and vote. [[14:38:51]] For 212 The decision is not taken. I am voting for a proposal to refer to the Committee for further processing and for a second reading of the draft Law on Time Calculation in Ukraine (Registration No. 4201). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:39:27]] For 226 Decision taken. Thank you. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
