ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Good morning, members of the media! Please prepare for registration. I'm reminded that registration takes place by clicking on the green button, the first button on the left, the pros button. Please register. [[10:05:19]] There are 132 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers, participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. Good afternoon. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, "the hour of questions to the Government" is held on Friday at 10 a.m. Let us turn to this question. Mr. Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, Prime Minister of Ukraine, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u2	Good day, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, Your Honor! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Today's report will refer to the government's recent priorities to inform the national MPs, the people of Ukraine, what has been done and what is planned to be implemented in strategic areas. On each block, I will stop separately to tell you about our work in detail and systematically. I'll start by fighting the coronavirus and transforming the medical system. After a year and a half of the pandemic, this remains one of the main priorities and challenges facing the country and the government. The two main pillars in the fight against the coronavirus are, firstly, vaccination, secondly, a prepared medical system, able to respond to the likely challenges and needs of the pandemic. As far as vaccination is concerned, it takes a steady turn. This is particularly important in the context of the spread of the new strain of the "Delta" Coroner. Six weeks later, a record number of vaccinations are observed. For example, more than 560,000 vaccinations were made last week, 563, if specifically. In the past week, there are 440,000 vaccinations. A million vaccinations from SOVID-19 were made in July in two weeks. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I urge all Ukrainians to protect themselves and their relatives and to receive a vaccine. The vaccination in Ukraine is based on three platforms: mobile vaccination teams (500 of them); vaccination sites (120 of them); and vaccination centres, which are now more than 200. In Ukraine, there is now a need for quality and safe vaccines to meet the demand of all. By the end of July, more than 8 million doses of vaccines were scheduled to be delivered to Ukraine. Besides Pfizer, AstraZenec and CoronaVac, we expect 2 million doses of Moderna this month. It's also a high-quality vaccine used by the United States and the European Union. In August we expect more than 5 million, except Pfizer, CoronaVac, and in August we expect 2 million Novax vaccines. The second resistance to the coronavirus, as I mentioned earlier, is a prepared medical system. Regardless of the relatively calm situation with SOVID-19, we're still strengthening its ability. In Ukraine, there is an additional reconfiguration of medical facilities, including centralized oxygen. So far, the oxygen supply of the bed fund is 95 percent. At the same time, the percentage of occupied beds is about 8 percent. An extremely important issue is ensuring the proper pay of medical personnel involved in hospitals in response to SOVID-19, who have become a shield in the fight against the pandemic. In January-May 21, the total amount of allowances of up to 300 percent amounted to 3.4 billion dollars. The state is now fully paid for April-May and is already in the process of paying for June. We're also running a system of work towards mutual recognition of Ukrainian SOVID certificates abroad so that Ukrainians can travel freely around the world. By the beginning of July, the government had passed a directive on the implementation of such certificates, and they were already working in the beta version of the "Dia" plugin. Hungary, Greece, Moldova, and Turkey have already agreed to accept Ukrainian certificates. The goal soon is to expand the geography of the certificates. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Deputy Prime Minister's Office for European Integration, is actively involved. The next block is social policy. There are two heads of work vectors here. The first vector is directly increasing payments, carrying out indices and other elevations. The second vector is to improve mechanisms, tools and programs that allow more efficient use of funds, and to target them to those people who really need it. With regard to higher payouts, such as increases in pensions. In March of this year, most Ukrainian pensioners were indexed. The increase was 11 percent. This increase has affected nearly 8 million pensioners. In April of this year, pensions were indexed for working pensioners, and they also received their updated payments. In addition, minimum pension benefits are increasing along with an increase in the subsistence minimum on July 1 and December 1 this year. Last year, for the first time, the government launched a pensioner supplement program, which is over 80 years old. Now they get an extra 500 dollars a month. Similarly, on October 1st, additional payments of 400 dollars will be made for pensioners over 75 years of age. This, once again, reminds some political speculators that these extra payments will be made for the first time, i.e. they weren't in 2017 or 2018 or 2019. Similarly, in 2017 there were totally unfair positions regarding military pensioners. They were simply excluded from the index list, and their pensions remained virtually unchanged. At a government meeting on Wednesday, we settled the issue. I would like to point out that the payments of 2,000 dollars will be charged to the people in July. In total, almost 400,000 people will be affected by such supplements. And that's a fair amount given that payments to other pensioners were indexed and, unfortunately, to military pensioners were not. With regard to the pension system, we continue to work with the profile committee to launch a cumulative pension system without raising taxes for people and business, that's a key aspect. Just like the fact that without the introduction of a cumulative pension system, we will not be able to provide the same level of pensions that our European neighbours have. This is a fact, and we need to be honest about it, because this is a strategic decision for us and for future generations of Ukrainians. The next question is subsidies. Recently, the government changed a number of rules regarding the criteria for granting subsidies. And the main criterion in the new rules is that people with significant shadow incomes and assets should not receive subsidies, because they don't really refer to vulnerable populations. Of course, the absolute majority of our citizens, including Ukrainian pensioners, will be reappointed automatically, i.e. no additional applications need to be made. On July 8, the Ministry of Social Policy sent 1.1 billion dollars to pay grants for May and June. So all the checks and payments go completely on schedule. Anyone who really needs support will get it now and in the hot season. According to recent reports, the grant has already been allocated to 2 million people, of whom 1.7 million citizens have not applied and have received automatic reassignment. Regarding the heating season and the housing and utility tariffs for Ukrainians. According to U.S. GTS operator, the price of gas in Europe has increased to the highest in 13 years, and over $450 per cubic meter today is the price. That wasn't the price since 2008, which would mean that Ukrainian households would have had to pay 13-15 dollars per cubic meter. But this does not happen as we see it. Thanks to the joint work of the government, the Supreme Council, the Office of the President, we started our annual product in the gas market in May. We've been protecting people from the price jumps we're seeing right now. So now the users of Naftogazu, for example, pay 7 nr. 96 bps per cubic meter. Regarding heating tariffs and hot water. These powers are now fully delegated to the local authorities. In addition, gas companies have presented to the local authorities alternatives in the form of long - term contracts that will allow them to receive solid blue fuel without fluctuating prices. The gas market is an important strategic solution, it exists in every developed country, and it is a perfectly right model: more competition and better prices and quality of services, lack of opportunities and abuses for monopolization. I also wanted to share the latest information on the heating season, and I keep this process under personal control. By the end of June, the amount of gas in underground gas reservoirs had already exceeded 16 billion cubes, more than it was in 2019. Similarly, the work to provide the country with the required amount of coal is being stepped up. This training is being done on a daily basis. The Ministry of Communities and Territories will report on the situation on a weekly basis until the beginning of autumn, so that people’s deputies and the public will see what is going on. Of course, both the transformation of medicine and new social programs and large infrastructure projects cannot be implemented if there is no economic growth. That's why the government's priority this year is to restore the economy, improve the investment climate and macroeconomic stability. With regard to the macroeconomic situation. The budget for the first half of the year was 583 billion dollars, 35 billion dollars more than the plan and 63 billion dollars more than last year. An important aspect of macroeconomic stability is, of course, the prognosis of power, and I would like to thank the people's deputies who supported the budgetary declaration proposed by the government yesterday for the next three years. Such a declaration is adopted for the first time in the history of Ukraine, and it demonstrates a responsible approach of power to where tax payers' costs go, which is a strategy for the use of budgetary resources. Thank you to the People's Deputies for their support. Investment climate. This is a priority for the full implementation of the law initiated by the President of Ukraine in support of significant investment projects. All legal preparation is almost complete. As of now, UkraineInvest has received more than two dozen requests from foreign and Ukrainian investors for a total of nearly $1.5 billion, equivalent. According to a survey by the European Business Association, the investment moods of the business in the first half of the year improved from 2.4 to 2.84, thus improving the situation. Already in the second quarter we see economic growth in general, and investment activity in particular. This is evidenced by the fact that for the third month in a row, bank credit portfolios have grown by more than 10 billion dollars a month. So business starts investing in development and expansion, including using credit. An important role in this process is being played by affordable lending programs for small and medium-sized businesses. Over 55 billion dollars were issued for small businesses at a very affordable rate. In particular, under 5-7-9, more than 52 billion dollars, under government portfolio guarantees, 3.5 billion dollars. And this week, the program was extended to agrarians who want to develop and invest in their own business in the long term. The second is the decline in the role of the state in the economy. This year we're implementing the Big Privatization program, and I want to immediately thank the MP Corps for supporting the bill. The first object is the United Mining Company, and its privatisation will be a powerful signal for investors around the world, as a completely open and transparent competition takes place. This auction is scheduled to take place on August 31 at a starting price of 3.7 billion dollars and a significant potential for growth. In the future, a number of oblenergo and other non-strategic enterprises will be exhibited for privatization. This is part of the Ukrainian President's programme, the "Slut of the People" party, which the government is actively implementing and the results of which are highly appreciated by international partners and businesses. Another point for growth in the economy and investment is the state-private partnership, which is widening into more and more sectors. Starting last year from the port sector, where two seaport concessions were launched, a gas distribution agreement begins this year. Private companies are obliged to invest at least 10 billion dollars in the development, exploration, and production of Ukrainian gas. The government is also actively working on the development of projects and the start of construction of new concession vans. In the context of economic initiatives, of course, work on creating new industrial parks, supporting exports, supporting industry, and working on the creation of the City. Thank you to the People's Deputies for voting yesterday. Yesterday, new statistics on freight were published. In the first 5 months of 2021, exports of Ukrainian products increased by 26 percent. Exports increased by 64 percent in almost all commodity groups, including exports to Britain, exports to Germany increased by 52 percent, exports to the PRC increased by 50 percent. Ukraine had not been able to fully implement its export potential for a very long time, but joint government and business work allowed new markets to be opened and the geography of Ukrainian exports expanded. In this context, it is worth noting that the government has been actively working over the past year to win industrial carnage with the European Union. We continue our dialogue with our European partners so that such a lack of transportation for Ukrainian industrial goods will become reality in the coming year. In addition to industrial visalessness, in the next two years we are planning to get four more allowances from the EU: this is an airline car, or an open-air agreement; energy failure, or joining the ENTSO-E European energy network; this is a customs visa, or accession to the Convention on the Common Transit Procedure; and also, of course, digital carlessness. In addition, there is an active work on the renewal of trade additives in the Association Agreement with the EU. One key element of the economic crisis is the positive expectations of Ukrainian entrepreneurs. In recent months, according to the National Bank, 60 percent of employers plan to increase wages, and the business expectations index in the second quarter has increased to 112 percent compared to 108 percent in the first quarter. A survey by the NBA also shows that Ukrainian companies expect a substantial increase in their production to increase their own investment programs and to further improve their own incomes. It's the best indicator that the economy is recovering, and we're on the right track. Another historic reform that worked since July 1st is the start of the earth’s market. For 15 days now, Ukrainians are free to dispose of their property. This means that the constitutional right of citizens will no longer be violated. By July 15, 774 land agreements had been concluded in Ukraine, and the moratorium had previously been extended. The minimum price at which you can place land for sale is the price of a regulatory valuation. It's different in every area, but on the average, it's about one thousand dollars per hectare. In fact, we've got a powerful economic driver, and our goal is to make this development tool as effective and responsive as possible to the interests of Ukrainians. Last night at a government meeting, we adopted an important project that will allow Ukrainian agrarians to obtain loans on a portfolio basis for the purchase of agricultural land. Other measures have also been taken to support small farms: the payment of 5,000 dollars per hectare to new farms, the payment of 5,000 dollars per cow per year, the possibility of ordering counselling services – up to 36,000 dollars, which the state compensates accordingly, 90 percent of the only social contribution to small family farms. The appropriate incentives for development will help create new jobs in the countryside and increase the availability of local budgets. Ukraine is actively implementing President Vladimir Zelensky's Big Construction programme. The large-scale infrastructure project, the largest in the history of independence, is strongly supported by the following figures. In the 20th year alone, 114 schools, 100 kindergartens, 101 sports infrastructure projects were implemented. The plan for this year is no less ambitious: to build and reconstruct 6,000 miles [6,000 km] of roads, 74 schools, 54 kindergartens, 28 medical facilities, over 140 reception facilities, and 340 health clinics in rural areas, 24 swimming pools, 78 other sports facilities throughout the country. The government will do its utmost to ensure that these ambitious plans are implemented and that Ukrainian citizens receive quality new infrastructure. The government has established effective cooperation with international financial organizations. Recently, Ukraine received $350 million from the World Bank for a programme to restore and develop the economy during the pandemic and to strengthen state institutions. Earlier, a decision was made to allocate 270 million to modernise the Borispol International Airport. Costs will be aimed at improving energy efficiency, aviation safety, and operating stability of the airport. Among the last deals, it's also a 212 million-dollar deal from the World Bank to increase the resilience of the energy system. Also, $200 million from international organizations will be able to implement a project to improve the quality of education and education as well as modernize our universities. At the same time, a constructive dialogue is continuing towards receiving a tranche of IMF and macro-financial assistance from the European Union. Ukraine has shown significant progress in implementing reforms in various areas, including the rule of law, the gas sector, land reform and fiscal reform. One question that I'm going to ask briefly, because it was violated by the people's deputies, is the government's programs of action. I'll say in advance that in March of this year, a really fundamental document -- the National Strategy -- was approved by 2030. This document was prepared by many experts, government officials, national deputies. He's got favorable feedback from business associations and he's got a good road map on what economic initiatives we want to implement in the coming years. We are currently finalizing a program of government activities that will not only have quality fulfillment but will immediately take into account the implementation of this program using qualitatively new approaches. During the preparation of the strategy and the program was used and the result-based management approach used in many developed countries of the world will be used. I have already noted that the document is currently in the final stage of discussion and will be sent to Parliament in the fall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u3	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine from the MP factions and groups. Zarski Maksim Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u4	Good afternoon! Zari Maxim, 202 District. We've already talked to you today about the "Jourov-Banil" gas crossing. This is a very complicated question for my district, for people who have been running out of gas for a year. And it's about eliminating the effects of the post-mortem situation since this year. I thank you for your particular conversation. We've talked and talked to you over and over, but hopefully with the Minister of Energy, we'll take clear, effective steps. I just want to assure you that you can take control of this situation, and in the near future, we were able to solve it, and finally give people gas and confidence in tomorrow, and not wait for frosts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u5	Thank you for your question, it's really important. And there really was a proper address for you, there was a specific conversation with the Minister of Energy. We're taking control. Of course, this question needs to be put into the budget of the Ministry, but the minister is already in control of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u6	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vátrovitch Volodymyr Mihajlovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u7	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues of honor! I will begin by welcoming, with the anniversary of the approval of the Declaration of Sovereignty, the welcome to the palace of the entry into force of the Act on the Functioning of Ukrainian Language as a State language, the welcome to the decision of the Constitutional Court which declared this law constitutional. Perhaps you know, Mr. Prime Minister, that literally this week, here in the Parliamentary Hall, we have reflected several attacks on the operation of this law that have tried to narrow it down. The public wants to hear from you, from the Prime Minister, from this rostrum the assurance that no steps are being taken by the government to reduce the functioning of the Ukrainian language. And questions. By January 16, 20, the government had to approve a national programme to promote the learning of Ukrainian. I remind you, today, on July 16, I remind you, it was provided for in a law that was declared constitutional. I'm waiting for assurances and an answer to a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u8	The government does not plan to reduce the functioning of the Ukrainian language according to the current Ukrainian legislation. Period. As for the program, I will ask the Minister of Education and Science to answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u9	Yes, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u10	I'm sorry, this program is now under review in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u11	It'll be delivered as soon as it's ready. And the Ministry will give it to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u12	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy, Urban Anatoly Igorovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u13	Good afternoon. Please pass the word to Irina Konstankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u14	Please, Irina Miroslavna Konstankevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u15	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for your statement. You were right about the growth points. Please tell me, are there any growth points for medical wages? Because we, the Marjorie MPs, have a number of references to the low level of salaries of health workers in district hospitals, which is the secondary level. In particular, I would like to emphasize that I have a call from the Kamen Kashir district, which includes Manevicka, Lubashivsky and Kashir Kamen Hospital. We have other areas. These are very low wages. When is salary expected to rise and how real is it at 21? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u16	Thank you for your very timely question. I've already reported in my statement that a 300 percent supplement was spent this year on 3.4 billion dollars plus the basic salary. In addition, quite a large amount of funds were spent on additional payments and salary allowances. I want to talk about average wages. In emergency medicine, 21,000, over 21,000 in the 20th year, in the 21st year, is planned at $29,000,869. In the original, the wage for today is 15,000,652 bracelets. The second year is scheduled for 16,357. The second is 10, almost 11,000, there's no more money, and 13,000 300 is planned for the next year. In total, the average medical salary in the 20th year was 11,553. For the following year, nearly 14.5,000 dollars are planned. So there's some growth, there's some difference over the previous years. But of course, the main task is to increase the wages of doctors to such a central European, or, to an extreme extent, to the average level of our neighbours, in order to make them feel absolutely worthy in Ukraine. That's why we're working on it, we're now coming out of the budget, and we're filling out the tax budget for the budget that exists in our country today. But surely we will do our utmost to ensure that the medical profession receives a decent salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u17	Thank you. The word is given by Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyevich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u18	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! Mr. Prime Minister, after yesterday's Budget Declaration, unfortunately, I no longer have any further questions to you, to your government, because those macro-indicators that you've set up there, they show that we're not even going to get close in some parameters to the level of conflict in 2013. You're talking about income growth, we're looking at a minimum pension and a minimum of living: it's 1.5 times smaller than the dollar equivalent that was in the 13th year. You're talking about gas prices, so we have the tariff and the cost of utility payments increased by 2.1 percent in two years (this is data from the Ukrainian State Statistics Service). What we're talking about today is that Ukraine is the poorest country in Europe, given the average monthly wage in the dollar equivalent. By GDP per capita, by gross domestic product, all macroeconomic indicators show that we're not the country we're supposed to be. As head of the State Economic Policy Subcommittee, I would like to inform you that we will initiate a decision to resign the entire Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u19	So you don't need an answer to the question, do you, because there's no question? Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Mikolaiovich Evtushka, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fathers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u20	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Mr. Prime Minister, when we considered the Ukrainian State Budget Act, we saw clearly that the figure that was allowed to pay in the local subsidy communities had changed, paid to teachers, for second reading. And we've already said there's going to be a huge problem. Actually, it did. Now we have serious problems. I thank the Committee on Budget Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which, along with the Ministry of Finance, has now made an approximation, changed the monthly schedule and transferred the money from the fall that we were supposed to pay on schedule, wages and allowances to teachers, and here are the vacations for now. But please tell me, what are you going to do in the fall? To what number do you plan to increase this subsidy, which is to go to the unified territorial communities to pay salaries, allowances and other payments to our educators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. I want to answer. In part, you replied that the Ministry of Finance, together with the Committee on Budgets, was correcting the budget for the State to carry out all its obligations to budget workers, to social workers. In January/June, the budget was made plus 6.5 percent of the plan. This, I've already reported, is 35.5 billion dollars plus. In fact, we also expect a fairly good budget execution after this year, after 6 months, 9 months. We'll make decisions with the budget committee accordingly. If necessary, let us ask Parliament to support such a decision in order for the State to fulfil all its obligations to teachers, doctors, and other obligations of the State in terms of social responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u22	Thank you. Please, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u23	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Denis Anatoliyovich, the heating season is approaching. You pointed out in your statement that the government is planning to do a lot of work. Our voters are asking questions about the protection of low-income populations. And in this context, two questions. Is the government planning to review the criteria for granting subsidies just for the underprivileged? Because a large number of Ukrainians can stay out of the grant. And that's what's really bothering our citizens. And the second question. Will special commissions that worked with former district government administrations be reinstated to deal with special cases of grants? Because once again, huge numbers of citizens can simply not get subsidies. So please answer these two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u24	Thank you for the up - to - date question. I've already said that the number of assigned subsidies for today is 2 million, and 1.7 million citizens have been reassigned without additional referrals or applications, or automatic applications, and that's also very important. In fact, 300,000 have written appropriate statements. The state has checked the really low security or insecurity of these types of populations and these households, these families. The key task right now is to dissipate those people who have 5 apartments there, give them up with loads, with subsidies, with rents, without contracts, by the way. So it's very important right now, really, as you said, to identify the people and households that really need these subsidies in order for the state to be able to meet its commitments in a qualitative way and perhaps to a greater extent. What we will do is all subsidies to all those who need them, are paid and will be paid, there is no doubt about it, and this will be done by the State and the government. With regard to the transfer to the local level and the creation of appropriate commissions, we are also working with local self - government authorities now to improve people’s communication with local authorities or central authorities as necessary, that is, partly electronic format, but, in part, local self - government authorities will be able to determine and see whether a family or a person needs appropriate subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u25	Thank you. Please welcome the National Deputy of Ukraine Sowsun Inna Romanovna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u26	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Mr. Prime Minister, a few questions. The first question we've talked about before: setting up oxygen stations. We've heard a figure from you about 95 percent of the hospital's oxygen supply. I don't know where this number came from, whether it takes into account the same concentrators, but in oxygen stations, as far as I know, there's no significant progress at the moment. And when we expect a third wave of the epidemic, I would very much like for the government to take this issue more seriously. The second question is about education. Sadly, your report never even uttered that word. But I would like to ask you very much to note that our children have lived in a catastrophic state of remote education this past year. I very much ask the government to allocate resources to monitor the knowledge of our students after this year of distance to understand who has properly adopted the program and who has failures that need further development. Because we've seen the results of the SAT: 30 percent of the kids don't know math. And it's a disaster that we have to do something about.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u27	Thank you. It's about the first part of your question. 95 percent of the beds of hospitals that have been selected for hydrated patients are provided with oxygen. Indeed, oxygen supply comes from a variety of sources: both centralized and oxygenic concentrators. The question here was to provide as many beds as possible with oxygen during this year. What are the sources? It was already a secondary question. Now, you're absolutely right, it's important to ensure stability and quality of submission. So centralized oxygen supply is also one of the priorities for medical institutions. This is happening in many institutions. Designed appropriate centralized oxygen supply stations. And so, well, let's say that this restructuring of the supply of oxygen happens. But it would certainly be good to put this issue at the central level of the central budget. We talked to you about that, too. Once the financial situation of the budget is allowed, of course, we, together with the Ministry of Health, together with the Ministry of Finance, will consider this and help to establish centralised oxygen supply systems to ensure stable, continuous work and the ability to supply oxygen to patients who will need it. I stressed that we are now preparing very carefully for the possible next wave of pandemic associated with the Delta strain, which is extremely dangerous. Special attention is paid to children’s medical facilities. Because students and children are more likely to get sick. It's about the education sector and the subject you're talking about. Indeed, the Ministry of Education is working almost daily on these issues. We are preparing for the next school year. And the problem that you've heard is that it's in the order of the Ministry of Education of the day, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u28	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Please have a seat. Let us turn to the question from the national MPs to the government. Please sign up for a question to the government and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u29	Please give Sofia to Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u30	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u31	Question to the Prime Minister. Please tell me, by the beginning of May, why do the families of veterans who became disabled in the first and third groups, as a result of injuries or ills received during hostilities, have zero sums of the 350 million dollars budgeted? Please tell me why the Government's regulation 280 on ATO, UPO, is not being implemented, and as a result, the internally mixed members of the war effort have not received a penny to buy housing for them, which was promised a few years ago as a result of their protests under the Office of the President? Why does the government block the construction of housing for military personnel, but it's not even able to connect existing housing like, for example, the Winnitz area lacks 1 million bracelets to get the sewers up -- and it's going to work as a result? Well, last minute: subsidies. It's not true, it doesn't appear automatically.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u32	It's about working towards supporting our veterans. It was only on this Wednesday that the government made three decisions, three important decisions on the support of veterans, the allocation of funds and the creation of an appropriate veteran fund, if you saw and looked closely at the work of the government. With regard to housing allocations for internally displaced persons, almost every two weeks the government allocates such funds, almost every two weeks. Statistics, if you turn, will be given to you. As for the particulars you're talking about, there's a situation in the Winnitz region, for example. So where's your MP's address? The government cannot see and know every particular case in each particular building. So give an appropriate parliamentary address, we'll look at this issue together with the local authorities, we'll see where it came from and who can help solve this issue at the local, local level. So we can totally work together here. And I request that you pass the word on to the minister as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u33	Dennis Anatolyovich, I'll add. 280 Decrees adopted. And by the way, in August, subsidies will go to local budgets and they will get people to get compensation for housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u34	Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u35	Please pass the word to Dirdin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u36	Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u37	Thank you. I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Today, the State Reserve is demonstrating an ineffective policy on the implementation of its core tasks, along with its temporary leader, Mikita Barabbas. What happens in the State Reserve system, including the State-owned Bread Base 76, is just a horror: a bunch of problems and criminal conduct. As of today, the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine has re-elected the winner as Head of the Reserve. The application for a new checker is in Kabmini for more than three weeks, and his consideration is prolonged by your immediate surroundings, and you are well informed and well aware of this situation. For what reason do I have one question to ask you: When do we expect Kabmin to consider the draft decision of Mineconomy regarding the appointment of the new headmaster of the Reserve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. And I'm going to ask him to answer the First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u39	Thank you for asking. Why is the question of the appointment of the Head of the Reserve being delayed, because a whole new concept of the creation of a state reserve system, a strategic reserve management system is being developed. So over the course of a week or two, the issue will be solved strategically and the leader will be appointed, and then all other questions about the vertical management of the state reserve system will also be solved, including both Base 76 and 78 and many other specific dispatches that are in the state reserve system.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u40	Igor Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u41	Question to the Prime Minister. Squirrel Igor, Servant of the People, Zakarpatsk district. Last month, the Committee on Environmental Policy heard the report of the first hundred days of the work of the new Head of State, Yuri Vitaliovich Bolokhowitz. And on this report, the committee gave a positive assessment of the activities of forestry, because, in fact, there are competitions in the positions of forest managers, which are essentially meant to implement the program, a large-scale program of resilienting Ukraine. However, there was a competition in the Zakartat region more than a month ago, but the governor, the head of the Zacarpathian ODA, is blocking the appointment of the winner of the competition. I have a request to you, Denis Anatoliyevich, to take personal control of the issue of whether the winners of the contests should be appointed instead of blocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. In fact, I take it as a parliamentary address. Let's take control, draw up a document for the department of profile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u43	Blue Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u44	Please pass the word Klimpush-Cincadze to Ivanni Orestovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u45	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u46	Question to the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, the Ukrainian budget provides 131 million dollars ashore. Until now, the government has not made the division by area, as a result, instead of prejudice over the consequences of the disaster and the consequences of the disaster, we will now pay more because we will pay the cost of the damage that the disaster has caused. I have a question: When do you plan to make a distribution, and when will we act on prejudice? And the second question. Why did the government decide to attach only 17 billion cubic metres of gas to the gas shelters? This is much less than last year. Has the risk of adding North Stream-2 decreased compared to last year? I feel like you've started playing Moscow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u47	With regard to preparation for the heating season. There will be a necessary amount of gas, absolutely enough, with the additional reserve needed to ensure the national security of Ukraine's energy system. And these calculations are based on very clear parameters of the Ministry of Energy. With regard to the first part of your question, the coastal fortification, I ask you to answer the Minister of Environmental Protection of Abraham's Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u48	Dear Ivana Orestovna, indeed, is in the process of doing so. Unfortunately, today we have this transformation in the State Department that's taking some time to process. Then I will contact you personally, and I will give you information on this matter after an hour of questions. If you're comfortable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u49	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u50	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm going to have a question to the distinguished minister of the economy about macro-fiscal asymmetry, which we see in this year and in recent years, that we have, for example, the inadequacy and inequity of the largest taxpayers, for example, those sectors they represent, for example, tobacco companies; and the biggest contribution, for example, agriculture, to Ukraine's gross domestic product: either export or other sectors of the economy. How will you cope with this inequality that is? That's the first question. The second question is that yes, indeed, we have a deferred demand, primarily for raw materials that grow in the external markets. This is due to an increase in temporary exports. But how are you going to deal with this raw tap that's been going on for the last seven years in the country's external trade balance? And then there's the third one. Of course, it's an interesting program, a complex program for modernizing and restoring the economy, a post-quade so-called one, because we understand that we can still go into the meadowdown in the fall and winter, but we're interested in restoring the economy, a complex program. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u51	Thank you for the interesting question. The government is currently developing, the Ministry of Economics is developing an inter-branch balance system. The main goal is to find growth points that, with the smallest investment, can have the greatest multiplier effect. To date, five of these strategic points have been selected — about 12 KWED economic activities. And when I meet interested parties, the economic committee in cooperation, we can inform because we're ready to present it. And that's just going to make it even, state support to focus exclusively on these sectors, these QUED economic activities. And with regard to the first part of the question, there's about imbalances, tax imbalances, it's all corresponding to the Tax Code, and it's stimulating, what I was talking about at the beginning of the answer, it's going to be able to equalize these imbalances, including with respect to taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u52	Black Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u53	Please pass the word to Dennis Maslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u54	Maslov Denis Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u55	Yes, colleagues, I have addressed the MPs and received answers. During the period since the registration of drafts 2194, 2195 -- this year and a half has passed before they were adopted -- throughout Ukraine, state land was registered with a goal of grazing, hayhairing and grazing -- 5,000 279 hectares, of which, think about, in one Dnipropetrovsk district -- 2,000 227 hectares, that is, almost half of the Dnipropetrovsk region. I have a question for the Prime Minister, the Minister of the APC. Do you find it strange that the industrial region has become our center of haystack and grazing? You know, I go there, I don't see cows. I think it's a banal removal of land simply into peasants. I have a question: Does the government see it, and what is it planned to do with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u56	Thank you. An important problem, please answer the APC minister's question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u57	At the appropriate request of the MPs, a proper examination was conducted, and we will report to you personally on this matter, and we have personally taken control of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u58	Light Julia Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u59	Good afternoon! I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Prime Minister, there is no secret that Ukraine is one of the leaders in spreading the pace of dangerous forms of tuberculosis. This sector has already reformed, but I'm not talking about treatment, I'm talking about vaccination. Today, there is a situation in the country that there is no BCG vaccine in maternity homes. As early as March, the Ministry of Health promised that in 10 days it would provide BCG throughout the country. I have a question: when will these 10 March days end for the state, and when will there finally be a BCG vaccine in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u60	Thank you for your important question. I will ask the Minister of Health to answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u61	Thank you for asking. In the Ministry of Health, the priority of prevention of vaccine - controlled infectious diseases is first. So today I can tell you with confidence that the vaccine for tuberculosis vaccination, which takes place in the first five days of my life, is in Ukraine, distributed to district government administrations and delivered to institutions. You can come to me after the meeting, we'll look at every particular facility, because we have online statistics, and we would definitely deliver. We know the number of children, we know personally every child who was born and not vaccinated. They are provided directly by family doctors and are invited to receive an additional vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u62	Mokan Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u63	Please pass the word to Edward Prosczek.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u64	Edward Proschtuk, 85th constituency, Attitude. My question to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Roman Leschenko. On 24 May 2021, the government adopted Decree 539 on "Some issues of the allocation of individual powers of the central executive authorities in the field of land-melioration", which added the powers of the State Department of Land Melioration to the State Department, which had previously been delegated from the mandate of Mindowkill to MinAPC. This was the principle of Mr. Abramowski's arrangement and yours, which was provided by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. To put it mildly, it was strange to see a new draft decree that you lobbyed for the full transfer of the State Department under the coordination of the MinAPC. Please explain what has changed in less than two months. Have they fully settled the issue of melioration and reformed the fisheries? Is MinAPC a ministry capable of monitoring water status or providing flood protection? Enough to look at water as a resource to provide an agrossor, you need to look for a balance that was actually found and implemented by a corresponding regulation. I appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine not to allow a review of position 539.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u65	To date, meliorate systems have not been transferred to the appropriate agency. A final decision on the matter will be made next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u66	Thank you, Your Honor. One moment, please. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, one minute of attention, please. I'd like to remind everyone that we've finally gathered all the national MPs that we have today the 31st anniversary of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I want to remember the value of independence, the value of sovereignty, and the value of our country in every decision I make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u67	Heroic glory! Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. And thank you, distinguished officials. Have a good day. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. There was a break with a replacement for the performance. But in parallel before that, I would like to remind everyone that yesterday all the MP factions and groups came up with the next proposal. From 11 to 11:30, we're looking at questions. Invite the people's deputies, because we're going to have to vote and ask for the President of Ukraine. Next. After that, we consider the appointment of a minister of the interior, and we consider the issues of the agenda that have been proposed. All the factions also turned. And we finish our work at 1:00. So we work all the time and clean up "Crazy." In parallel, colleagues called upon all the MP factions and groups to consider Bills 5557, 5558 today. There will be no rights that the authors will insist on, they will be voted on without discussion of the rights. Now I'm voting on the proposal. Here comes Polakov, please. After that, I will put to the vote a proposal to change the plan of our work today. Thank you. Polakov Anton Eduardoovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, a month ago, the president made a fine effort to land a billion trees. But why greenish the country if we haven't destroyed the black fellers -- those people who every minute every day, every hour, destroy hundreds of hectares of our forests? One of them is now headed by the Ternopil forest management and hunting farms. This is Oleg Jaremko, better known among the people as "Talk 5 Euros of Cuba." He has a very nice service list: it's illegal logging, it's a requirement of millions of bribes for the removal of the forest, and it's a lower-class woodwork, it's an organization of fires, to cover all its equipment and logging. That's very impressive, but Mr. Jaremko is still working, although for the time being, there are eight criminal charges against this person in the local D.B. and the Ternopil district attorney's office. For the time being, I'm talking to you. Thank you for breaking up. I am addressing President Vladimir Alexandrovich of Ukraine, and I ask him to set things straight. I'm talking to Prime Minister Schmigal to conduct an audit at the State Forest Agency, because we know that fish are rotting in his head. I also appeal to the government: Please conduct a check on Ternopil’s forest management and remove Oleg Jaremk from his duties. But I'm talking to Mrs. Venedict. Mr. Jaremko tells everyone what he's decided with you. Is it true that he actually made a decision with you to avoid criminal responsibility for his crimes?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u69	Thank you. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall, and let's move to a vote on the proposal to change the schedule of our work today. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? All the factions supported it, so I hope we'll see it the same way now. Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:03:43]] For 298 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to move on to the publicization of requests. The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oleni Constantine Kondratuk. Don't break up, there'll be a presidential request. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u70	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Good afternoon, dear fellows! So during the plenary week, you have 139 parliamentary inquiries. Of these: to the President of Ukraine – 12; to the Supreme Council – 2; to the Cabinet of Ministers – 68; to the heads of other state authorities and local self-government bodies – 52; to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination and forms of ownership – 5. We can move on to the MP's questions, right? So, pay attention! Dear colleagues, there is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of the request by Mr. Dmitry Kostuk to the President of Ukraine for the need to launch a new State-wide Big Cleanup programme aimed at improving the environmental situation of the waters and rivers of Ukraine, the quality of drinking water. Please vote. [[11:05:19]] For 294 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:05:42]] For-300 Decision taken. It is an open-ended vote to support the request by Dmitri Kostuk to the President of Ukraine for the inaction of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the creation of an ATO/OOS Rehabilitation Centre in Novogradi, Afghanistan, and other participants in the fighting. Please vote. [[11:06:20]] For 294 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:06:44]] For 298 Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Veterovich, Jonah, and others). A total of 10 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the office of the delegation of Ukraine to participate in the Tripartite Contact Group on the peaceful settlement of the situation in the east of Ukraine and of the Chief Executive Officer of the Office of the President of Ukraine on the issue of strategic communications in the area of national security and defence of Arestovich O.M. Please vote. [[11:07:33]] For 118 The decision is not taken. By factions, please show me. Thank you. Next question. Please be careful! It is an open-ended vote to support the request of National Deputy Yvchenka to the President of Ukraine for the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers to deal with the problems of financing the education sector, the understatement of the amount of educational subsidies and the incurrence of government debt to local communities, which has led to the improper provision of payment to teachers of paid salaries, leave and allowances on time and in full. Please vote, Your Honor. [[11:08:33]] For-153 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:08:57]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. It is an open-ended vote to support Sergey Mageri's request to the President of Ukraine to ensure the smooth and safe operation of the Mariupal Seaport and the development of shipping in the Azov Sea. Please vote. [[11:09:33]] For 239. Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:09:57]] For 225 The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by a request from a group of national deputies (Venislav, Arahamaia, Zavávnevitch, and others). Only 19 deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the preservation and reconstruction of the unique experimental base of the Scientific Research and Design Institute "Molnia" of the National Technical University "Harkovy Political Institute". Please vote. [[11:10:40]] For 313 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:11:05]] For the 320. Decision taken. Please be careful! It is an open-ended vote to support Igor Krivosheev's request to the President of Ukraine to encourage the famous awards of the group of the Uzhgorod Classical Gymnasium, the Zacarpathian Prefecture of the 10-year ranking of student Olympics. Please vote. [[11:11:49]] For 313 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:12:13]] For 313 Decision taken. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of Yuri Kamelchuk's request to the President of Ukraine for the provision of housing for war veterans and a participant in the liquidation of the accident at the Chernobyl AES citizen Yusefovich Igor Yulianović. Please vote. [[11:12:49]] For 291 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:13:13]] For 289 Decision taken. The next MP's request. A roll call is made to support the request of a group of national deputies (Losinsky, Mokane, and others). A total of 18 deputies) to the President of Ukraine regarding the observance of the International Youth Day in Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:13:49]] For 305 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:14:13]] For 303 Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Kingdom, Solod, and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine reiterating the rights of citizens in the area of social protection. Please vote. [[11:14:49]] For 180. Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:15:12]] For 139 The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by a request from a group of national deputies (Katsuri, Drushka, and others). A total of 8 deputies) to the President of Ukraine regarding the rights of children with special educational needs and the functioning of the Rubijan District Sanitary School. Please vote. [[11:15:50.]] For 311 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:16:15.]] For 317 Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Timofiychuka, Kachura, and others). A total of 9 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the need to sign an interstate agreement on road construction across the Romanian-Ukrainian border. Please vote. [[11:16:51]] For 314 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:17:14]] For 316 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, these are all parliamentary requests to the President. But I'm going to ask you a lot of questions, and I have the following questions that I'm going to read, and if it's noisy, I'm not going to read them. Thank you for understanding. So, questions to the national MPs. Julius Timoshenko and John Krulk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on financial security for the activities of the District Councils. Julius Timoshenko and John Krulk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a change in the administrative subordination of the city of Yellow Waters to the city of Curve Rig. Julius Timoshenko and John Krulk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure to stop the work of the State Enterprise "East Mining and Enrichment". Mr. Nestor Schuffrić is responsible for the duties of Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Attorney General, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine regarding the commission of a criminal offence (in the order of Art. 214 KPC of Ukraine) Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the granting of a subsidy from the State Budget for the maintenance of the education and health facilities of Petropavlovska, the unified regional community of Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk district of Odessa. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide funding for work related to the reconstruction of cultural heritage objects Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on possible violations of the order of business. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the possible illegal alienation of municipal property. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Office of the Attorney General, the State Audit Service of Ukraine on possible violations of legislation in the use of budgetary funds. Groups of people’s deputies (Takchenka, Shinkarenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection regarding violations of acceptable health standards. Artema Cranmoorov to the State Enterprise Research "Restructive" of the Selection and Genetic Institute, the National Centre for Seed Knowledge and Societies for Information Provision. Sergia Soboljeva to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund on the use of measures to enforce the court’s decision. Vassila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the elimination of the consequences of the disaster in the Rakhiv region of Zakarpat. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the railway line in Berezine, Ukraine, Basarabiasca, Republic of Moldova. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of an educational subsidy to pay for the work of teaching staff in the general secondary education of the Sokal City Council. Groups of National Deputies (Bondara, Synytes, and others) A total of 18 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to take into account the proposals of the Lviv Regional Public Administration to improve the relationship between the state budget and local budgets and inter-budget regulation. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on possible violations of acceptable sanitary standards. Groups of People's Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the Skrošta Shareholders' Association for the establishment of means to prevent unauthorized access to information. Galina Vasilchenko to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography, and Inventory of Land Audit and Inventory. Groups of National Deputies (Gerashchenko, Ionova and others) to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the immediate elimination of the signs of discrimination in the form of clothing set up to carry female military personnel to the parade of troops on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's independence on 24 August 21st. Irina Konstanovic is head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund for the transfer of premises from the state to municipal property. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine on the allocation of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the financing of socio-economic measures to compensate the population risk. Oleg Colewa to the Odessa City Head on the problems that exist in Odessa Groups of National Deputies (Sternichuka, Shinkarenka, and others) to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the inactivity of law enforcement agencies. Group of National Deputies (Ionova, Fries, Pavlovka) to head the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and the Protection of Veterans' Rights, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Territories, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine on the Liberation of Arestovich O.M. from the position of spokesman for the Ukrainian delegation to participate in the Tripartite Contact Group on the peaceful settlement of the situation in eastern Ukraine and the deputy advisor to the Chief of the Office of the President of Ukraine on strategic communications in the area of national security and defence. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Ionova and others) to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the immediate resolution of the issues of preparation for military service, medical services, food, goods and other forms of provision of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Irina Herashchenko to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the settlement of issues of the production of a duplicate certificate of basic general secondary education to Dejevo Ivan Anatoliyovich. Irina Herashchenko to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the settlement of problematic issues by providing technical and other means of rehabilitation for persons with disabilities, children with disabilities and other individual population categories and on the payment of monetary compensation for self-sustained technical and other means of rehabilitation. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Klimpush-Cincadze and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister for Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Territories, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting on the use of appropriate measures to respond to the numerous violations of Ukrainian legislation in the field of television and radio broadcasting by the "Home" channel. Yuri Pavlenko to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for information. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the issue of the creation of the priority of adoption by foreigners of Ukrainian children.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask your attention that this is also an integral part of the plenary meeting. So I would ask for silence in the hall so that we can continue to read your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u72	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, for your support. Jurya Pavlenko to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need for urgent resolution of the work of the rehabilitation centres and the political assistance of children. Sergey Ljowczyn to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory implementation of the spending portion of the State Budget – 2021. Oksana Savchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds to eliminate the consequences and prevent an extraordinary situation in the Lanchin community of Ivano-Frankiv region. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the likely supply to the Ukrainian Armed Forces of arrested meat cans that do not meet the DSTU requirements. Geo Lerosa to the Minister of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the provision of lists of persons who were banned from entering Ukraine as a result of sanctions, for the period from 30 April 2019 to the present time, and for the list of persons from whom the above sanctions were withdrawn, with a separate explanation of the reasons for their removal. Vladimir Aresonkov to the head of the District Attorney's Office of the Zitomir in connection with the prosecution's response. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the financing of conservation measures in the territory of the Corestinian Territorial Society. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of the production needs of woodworking enterprises in Žitomirščina. Alexander Bakumov to the head of Kharkiv District State Administration, director of the state-run Kharkivska Roads Company, on the accident of the road to the general use of the local meaning of the Bogods – Valka in the Kharkiv region. Grigory Mamka to Borispilla City Head, Acting Director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction Inspection in the Kyiv Region, providing information on the construction of the land area: Kyiv region, Borispil city, Kiev Road, 1-d. Mageri to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to ensure the uninterrupted and safe operation of the Mariupol Seaport and the development of shipping in the Azov Sea. Igor Guza to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine on specific issues related to the elimination of the DP "Shakhta No. 9 "Novolinska". Igor Guza to the Attorney General on the need to transfer the premises of the former preschool facility in Novovolinsk, owned by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to the municipal property of the territorial community of Novovolinska. Igor Goose to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, Attorney General for the Arrest, in a state of drunken driving, Prosecutor Vladimir Volinsky of the Local Prosecutor's Office of Trotsuk M.Y. Igor Guza to the head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service on the process of modernising the international crossing points on the Ukrainian-Polish border of Yagodin and Ustilug. Vitalia Bezgina to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the provision of information on the number and number of members of the All-Ukrainian Associations of Local Government Authorities in Ukraine (in particular, their territorial offices). Anatolia Kostuha to the head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine on the modernization of the international walking and cycling pass "Little Selmenci – Velke Slemence". The Great Slemence, yes. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to continue repairing the roadways of general use of state importance within the Balgrad region of Odessa. Fedor Venislavski to the Attorney General for information on the appointment of administrative posts in the newly created district and district prosecutors. Michael Cimbaluk to perform the duties of Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Attorney General, regarding the use of force and special forces by law enforcement authorities to the participants in a rally of pensioners of power near the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 14, 2021. Anatoly Ostapenka to the head of the Church State Administration on land use issues. Solomonia Bobrowski to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding a balanced approximation of the budget allocations for the payment of cash to military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces of 1.4 billion This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, on leaving the BBC Forest Management DP as a separate legal person in the process of reforming the forest sector. Groups of National Deputies (Roads, Tucks) To the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine, on the cessation of copyright violations and the restoration of the rule of law. Groups of National Deputies (Mandia, Stefanchuka and others) to the Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine on a change in the funding schedule for the construction of the "Przyszki Street Sports Palace, 5/1th in Hmeljnik-Building City". Groups of National Deputies (Mandia, Stefanchuka and others) to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine on the restoration of the activities of the Hmielski Fish Protection Patrol within the administrative boundaries of the Hmeljna District. Groups of National Deputies (Mandia, Stefanchuka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in the marginal number of workers in the district government of the Hmelni district. Groups of National Deputies (Mandia, Stefanchuka) to the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine on restoration work on the monuments of national architecture in the communal form of property.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u73	Thank you, Helen Constantine. Please invite the national MPs. Let's get to work. There were two applications for a break with a replacement for the performance. Stryharski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u74	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! As you know, Tokyo will host the 32nd Tokyo 2020 Championship from July 23 to August 8. As the legislative branch of power, we should not forget the representatives of our sport, who are not merely representing Ukraine on the world stage, but by their high achievements we are promoting the image of our nation. For the first time in the history of modern sports, the Olympic Games through the pandemic were moved to one year. Sportsmen from all over the planet have been preparing for them for months, but despite all the hardships caused by the pandemic, the Olympic Games will take place. Ukrainian athletes, along with colleagues from other countries, will participate. The Ukrainian government, the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine have made every effort to ensure that our athletes have the opportunity to prepare fully for the most prestigious competition data. So not only am I a national MP, but as Vice President of the Federation of Boxing, I urge all of you in the future to do everything possible to ensure that our athletes and coaches have no problems and can focus on reaching the highest levels of sports. Ukraine has 158 athletes out of 26 sports. For the first time in 13 years, a judge was invited from Ukraine, Andrew Starkov. I think that's also an achievement. So in order to publicly support our Olympics, from this high rostrum, I want to express my support for our national Olympic Assembly, which will start in a week. Dear colleagues, let's officially welcome our Olympic champions, let's wish them strength, victory and let them bring us our gold medals as much as possible. [[Applause]] We believe in you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u75	Heroic glory! Thank you. There was a statement about a break with a replacement for the performance. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, so this day came on July 16. From now on, new rules of the Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language are in force. From now on, films and television shows should be broadcast in English. From now on, government officials and officials are required to pass tests on the knowledge of Ukrainian. From now on, we have taken another step towards establishing our statehood. I want to thank everyone in this room who has joined in the previous call to adopt this bill. I want to thank the public activists, the MPs, Andrey Parobia, Peter Poroshenko, all those who voted in favour of this bill. I want to thank the Constitutional Court, which has made a fair decision and has declared the Law on Constitutional Speech. The decision of the Constitutional Court, which was reported by Judge-Rapporteur Sergey Golovatius, to whom individual thanks, in particular, says: "The Ukrainian language is an inseparable attribute of Ukrainian nationality, which preserves its historical heritage from the ancient Chinese era. Ukrainian language is the final condition of Ukraine's statehood and its constituency." Therefore, honourable colleagues, any interference with the legal status of Ukrainian as a state language in Ukraine is unacceptable, because they violate the constitutional order of the state, threatens national security and the very existence of the statehood of Ukraine. "The court considers that the contested law is a legal instrument for overcoming the consequences of the long-standing stay of various parts of Ukraine in the composition of other states and the general increase of Ukraine, which lasted for several centuries during Ukraine's stay in the original Kingdom Russia, then the USSR, and is a proper legal basis for the establishment of institutional mechanisms that ensure the functioning of Ukrainian as a state with the possibility of using a State-sponsored action in favour of Ukrainian language, without impeding the development, use and protection of the languages of national minorities." Dear colleagues, thank you to all those who advocated the Language Act here, despite all the pressure that has been exerted both by the President's Office and by other state authorities to make changes to this law. We won't let that happen. We will unite Ukraine, all factions, the majority, the minority, the entire population of Ukraine in language protection. Because language protection is the protection of the state, it's the protection of Ukraine, it's our future! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. In accordance with articles 83, 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which includes most Ukrainian national deputies from the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal brought to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the application for the appointment of Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich as Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. The relevant materials are given to you. The following is proposed: presentation of the candidate by the Prime Minister of Ukraine – within 2 minutes, presentation of the candidate for the Minister of Interior – up to 10 minutes, questions to the candidate from the Ukrainian National Deputies - up to 9 minutes, a report from the committee - up to 2 minutes and statements from the MPs and groups, each faction - in three minutes. Then we move on to making a decision. I give the floor to candidate Denis Anatoliyevich Monastirski for the public declaration of conflict of interest under articles 31, 37 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Denise Anatolyovich. Arthur Volodymyrovich, have you moved to "Serve of the People" yet? [[B in m in s a l in]] A colleague is speaking, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I would like to announce a possible conflict of interest. In line with the agenda of the Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement, the question of the appointment of the Prime Minister of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich by the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine has been addressed. And at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is planned to consider the appointment of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich as Minister of Interior of Ukraine and the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy. At the same time, in accordance with paragraph 2 of the first part of article 28 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, the persons referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 of the first part of article 3 of this Act are obliged, inter alia, to notify not later than the next day when the person was to know whether there was a real or potential conflict of interest with the direct manager. Taking this into account, I would like to inform you of the facts and information mentioned above: With a view to avoiding conflict of interest, I intend to abstain from voting on the issues mentioned above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u79	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Let's move on to the question. The prime minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, is invited to the floor to represent the candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u80	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, and article 114, part four, of the Constitution, of the Ukrainian Constitution, according to the proposal of the parliamentary faction of the political party "The Servant of the People", which according to article 83, part 10, of the Constitution of Ukraine has the right to a coalition of deputy factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call, I present the application for the appointment of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich as Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u81	Thank you. Mr. Denis Anatoliyovich Monastirski, Minister of Home Affairs of Ukraine, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! Today is a very important and responsible day for me. My candidature is proposed to serve as Minister of Interior of Ukraine. I'm on the president's team, and I've been with him since the first few days. He went with the President's team in the first 20 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So first of all, I want to thank President Vladimir Zelenski of Ukraine for his trust. I devoted much of my life to law enforcement reform of the judicial system. For almost two years now, I have been elected head of the Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement. During this time our committee has developed, and the Supreme Council has passed 48 laws in the area of criminal justice, for which I thank you very much, my colleagues. I especially want to thank the members of my committee. Convinced, we will continue to cooperate fruitfully. My primary priority as minister will be the security of citizens, the state and the increased confidence of society in law enforcement. I want to call the police and show them my respect. I respect all of you who have the honor and dignity of an officer. But I will be sorry to fight those who, contrary to their oaths, use their powers to enrich themselves and violate human rights. [[Applause]] The work of police officers cannot be compared with the work of civilian civil servants, for sometimes a policeman can go home in the morning and never come back alive again. During the years of independence, 1,000,697 internal affairs officials were killed, and we should all keep that in mind. I offer to honor them with a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, colleagues. That's why the issue of the protection of police labour and social rights, the increase in labour costs, will be one of the priorities in my work. And here I'm going to need the support of both the President and the Prime Minister and, above all, your esteemed colleagues. A few words about the basic principles and priorities of my work as minister of the interior. I intend to focus on combating organized crime, so-called "wrongs in the law" and criminal authorities. It is because of them that a great number of serious and particularly serious crimes are committed. I guarantee that the decisions of the NSA and the President on sanctions against gang leaders will be carried out in full. The faces of the National Police are 17,000 police officers. They are the ones who come to help those who suffer from crime or who need help. The development and improvement of the police force will be one of my top priorities. I guarantee that patrols will continue to be held responsible for the administrative violations of judges, prosecutors, and national deputies. But only under the law. In each case a violation of human rights or a brutal lack of respect for its dignity will be a response. The security of the country begins with security on every street and square in every city and village in Ukraine. Taking advantage of this great rostrum, I turn to the mayors of the cities, the heads of the OTG, and the deputies of the local councils. If you want to make your city safe, make more money for purchasing and installing video surveillance systems. The more video cameras on the streets of cities and villages of Ukraine, the safer Ukrainian citizens will feel. And today, video cameras are the ones that are the most exposed to crime on the hot trail. I also see my duty to continue to implement the "Police Community Officer" project and the Community Police approach, which is to establish a new quality of relations between the police, the community and the local authorities, where everyone is aware of the responsibility for their own security, and the police in their activities are repulsed from the needs of the citizens. A family doctor should take care of the health of each family, and a community police officer should take care of the safety of every home. Last year, 3,000,454 people died on Ukraine’s roads, 169 of them children. This is more than on the roads of European countries, and it is a disgrace. The safety of road traffic will be my personal priority. So I'm going to continue to develop a system for automatic road traffic regulations, for modern road traffic control technologies. I have a dream that every five years, road deaths will double to zero. The Ukrainian roads, which are now being scaled up as part of the President's Big Construction programme, must be not only beautiful but also safe. Along with Minister of Transport and Infrastructure Alexander Kubrakov, we will not allow the destruction of Ukrainian roads because of trucks that carry terrible overload. Overcharges will be paid not only by carriers but also by the real culprits — the buyers of such shipments. We will not allow anyone to destroy the Ukrainian roads that are now being rebuilt by billions of dollars of Ukrainian taxpayers. Another priority in my work as Minister of Internal Affairs, I see a higher level of digitization of all areas of the work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. On this issue, I am counting on Michael Fedorov's sincere support. Prevention, prevention, and punishment for domestic violence, the protection of the rights of children and minors will be one of my priorities in the ministry. According to recent polls, more than 70 percent of cases of violence and a third of all crimes against property and health are committed by drug addicts. So one of the priorities of my activity will be to resist and prevent the spread of drugs and to help rehabilitate our fellow citizens who have committed crimes after, unfortunately, becoming drug addicts. I would like to point out that justice, the protection of human rights and the interests of victims cannot be done without the quality and honesty of the Ukrainian court. I believe, and I hope, that the laws on the reform of the IDP, the ICC that we have adopted with you recently, will unlock the system of justice. Cases in court should not be considered for many years outside the limits of reasonable terms, as is often the case now. One of the signs of statehood is the reliable and unbroken border of Ukraine. So one of the main tasks in the area of State Border Service reform is to build a modern and efficient state border across the state perimeter. Foreigners in the 21st century should not be on foot patrols of the state border. Who are the first guests of our country to see? Of course, the border guards. So I will make every effort to ensure that they receive a decent salary and work conditions so that they will always meet Ukrainian guests with a smile. Well, the lines on the borders should be in the past in the coming years. The National Guard is one of the pillars of Ukrainian statehood and internal stability. The National Guard is an important, overemphasized state institution, since it is directed, at the level of the police involved in the protection of public order and public security. That is why the Ministry of Internal Affairs is coordinating the joint efforts of the police and the National Guard to ensure common peace and security. Last year, 3,000 124 people were killed in State territory as a result of emergencies, fires, and other extraordinary events. These are terrible numbers, each number is followed by the fate of people and families. So my special attention will be to the introduction of a system of voluntary property insurance against fires and emergency situations. In the area of providing administrative services to the Departments of the State Migration Service and the Service Centre System, I will focus further on simplifying and expediting the receipt of passports and any permits. All services that can be provided without prejudice to the safety of citizens' personal data will be digitized for their convenience. Breaks in the production of forms, passports, and driving licenses should go on forever. But not everything is in the power of the Ministry, we will address you and the other authorities. And finally. I am responsible for the fact that I can be appointed today as the minister responsible for the internal security of the country, which has continued its resistance to the aggression of the Russian Federation for the past eight years. So much of my work is going to be dedicated to strengthening the internal stability and defence of our Ukraine in close cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, Genstab and Ukrainian intelligence. I assure you that I will be actively involved in the development of an active terrorist system and in all measures that will contribute to the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity, the return of Ukraine's Crimea and Donbas. [[Applause]] Dear friends, I don't promise to solve all the problems in an instant, it's impossible, but I promise to do my job professionally and in principle as a minister, and I'm willing to serve with dignity in the interests of the Ukrainian people and the state. Thank you once again for the trust given to me by the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister and you, your honorary colleagues. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u83	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the interview. Questions from the National Deputies. Gristuk Roman Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u84	Arthur Dmitruk's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u85	Dmitruk Artem Hennadiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u86	Dmitri Artem, Odessa. Denis Anatoliyovich, I'd like to extend my support to you from the entire law enforcement committee. That's the first one. The other one. In two years of committee work, you've shown yourself to be a high-level professional in this field. And the question that I have is that, recently, Parliament has adopted legislative changes in the introduction of the information and telecommunications system of pre-trial investigation, in fact, revolutionary and necessary changes that will continue to take place on the NABU. Are you planning on developing this direction in the activities of the National Police? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u87	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. The electronic criminal justice system is a very important system that will avoid any manipulation, counterfeiting in the work of law enforcement agencies. So I personally consider this to be a very important development that needs to be developed. But the leadership here, of course, is behind the Attorney General. I think we can put this system in place together in time. It's a very good step that after years of talking about this system, we can say that it's already being implemented in the same department. I think we need to be very smart, reasonable, and cautious about the introduction of this system to all law enforcement agencies. But I think it's a completely inevitable practice and it needs to be supported. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u88	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u89	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u90	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear Mr. Dennis, during your presentation, you did not stop at the most resonant matters of interest to society today, their investigation and the direct relevance of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We would like to hear your assessment of the situation in the case of Paul Sheremet, when it was with President Zelensky and Prosecutor Rybosapka that the murderers were declared without trial and investigation, and these people were imprisoned for a year and a half. That's the first question. And the second. You are now Ukraine's national deputy, and, you know, yesterday we were like many-year-old deputies shocked by this disrespect for Parliament when the majority allowed the minister to resign without a report to Parliament. We live in the parliamentary-presidential republic, it's strange that the President presented you first, not the government, not your colleagues from the parliament, who were supposed to announce the anonymity. Will you likewise ignore Parliament, or will you leave this dialogue and cooperation as minister? Whether or not you're coming to profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u92	Thank you for asking. One: Resonant conduct, especially in Sheremet’s food. The case is now in court. Let's wait for these results, and then we'll draw the necessary conclusions about the work and quality of the law enforcement system. Two: about my presentation. I am represented by the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the faction I am currently representing, "Serve of the people." And the third is about the dialogue. You asked a question from a colleague of my committee that sounds the most common. Yes, indeed, I, as Minister of Internal Affairs in case of assignment, will work with the committee directly, because that's the one. And with every deputy, because that's the one who lived, that activity that is part of the work of any ministry and any minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u93	The love of Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u94	Thank you. Please pass the word to Maslov Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u95	Maslov Denis Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u96	Dear Denis Anatoliyovich, first of all, I would like to express my respect for you, my support. And I'm sure you're the best choice for this fairly responsible, extremely responsible position. You know, the fact that there will be three Dennises in the government is a good sign, I hope. I have absolutely no doubt that you will be worthy to do your job. That's my question. Today, a bill on road safety is planned for registration, which will provide for the possibility of public use through the use of mobile devices and the transmission of these videos to the National Police. Please tell us how you feel about engaging more actively in the identification of such violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u97	Thank you, dear colleagues, for your assessment and for your questions. I know about the legislative initiative you are preparing to register with Parliament. What's more, I think that where it's possible to adequately involve the public in the identification of offences, it needs to be supported. Personally, I will also help to make this happen. But let's check all the nuances about the evidence base, whether it's possible to look at or not to look at this evidence in court, so that it doesn't harm another part of the community, which is also very important. But I think you can definitely find the balance, and you can do the most to help with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u98	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u99	I ask you to pass the word to Taras Ivanovich Batenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u100	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear Denis Anatoliyovich, the MP's Party for the Future has no doubt that you will be appointed Minister of Interior today. We'll talk about it in the rostrum and in accordance with our group's wishes and recommendations. At the same time, we know that you have a lot of experience as head of the committee in terms of the fact that the committee has shown a good example of quality legislation. Among the last drafts that we've seen in the session room, which concern, including our parliamentary group, is the issue of protecting children from sexual exploitation and violence. In your opinion, how close are we to international experience, and how can we protect our children for the future? Because children are our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u102	Thank you. From this rostrum, a few months ago, I said that Ukraine was third in the production of child pornography. This is certainly a disgrace. And you and I have adopted the relevant Ratification Act, the implementation of the Lancarrot Convention against Domestic and Child Violence, and the fight against child pornography. This is one of the parts that I'm already going to go to the law enforcement agency, and I'm going to definitely develop and support. But I think in time we're going to come up with a comprehensive joint programme to improve legislation just for the protection of children. It's very important to do this. I know that there is a healthy support group in Parliament that is working on this issue. Let us work together to ensure that the children of Ukraine are as protected as possible. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u103	Dear Mikola Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u104	Please pass the word to Maxim Tkachenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u105	Tsakenko Maxim Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u106	Thank you. Denise Anatolyovich, welcome! And with respect, and we very much hope that you will be truly the best minister. I ask very much from all of Luhansk to pay attention to the fires that occurred last year, and to the villain-manager, the villain-manager of the head of Luhansk District DSNS, Mr. Psik, who was corrupt, who corrupted the entire service of the DSN in the Luhansk region, who, not only was not punished at all, but also received marks, received bonuses, raised his loved ones, whom he brought with him to Luhanskish, and so on. I very much ask you to pay attention to our area and to the people who have suffered. We're all waiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u107	Thank you for asking. The fires were a cause and were not only in Lugansk but also throughout Ukraine. This was a particularly serious problem last year. So I think we also have to work together, and we've already done some work, and we've adopted a series of laws that improve this area. But with regard to the implementation of these laws, we definitely need to work with you together. As for certain personnel conclusions. Let's take a break, work, get an adequate piece of material -- and then we'll go back to any of those questions, especially some accusations or no excuses. Let's get this straight. But I will definitely be here on your side in search of legality and resistance to fires that unfortunately occur in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u108	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Please have a seat. Question time's up. The head of the committee’s committee on law enforcement, Alexander Sergiyovich Bakumov, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u109	Mr. Golovo, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, at the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkova, Committee on Law Protection at the meeting on 16 July 2021 (Protocol 82), reviewed the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appointment of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich as Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. As a result of the review, members of the committee decided to support the submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine of the appointment of Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich as Minister of Interior of Ukraine and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine to appoint the Monastery of Denis Anatoliyovich as Minister of Interior of Ukraine. Mr. Prime Minister, the honourable government, we, the committee, give you our most precious head, so we ask you to support and honor it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u110	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Absolutely fair and correct words. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions for the performances, please. The word is given to the national deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, the MP's "Trust". Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u111	Vladimir Aresonkov, trust MP. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues! Of course, an important day, because the question of the appointment of one of the most important central executives, is not only about the expectations and expectations that we, the entire Ukrainian people, place on the head of this department, but also about the fact that the work of one of the most important bodies of the executive state is very closely linked to the exercise of rights, freedoms, Ukrainian law -- what our Ukrainian citizens today require. And I'll give you a simple example. Yesterday there was a video showing what happened in Odessa, when some of the citizens, using weapons, acted in such a way that they created problems for other people, threatened the lives of other citizens. And within literally three hours, the National Police units worked very quickly and clearly. Citizens were detained, suspects were brought to light, criminal cases were committed. That's how our National Police is supposed to work today, and its units. Clearly, then, the new minister will face the challenge of further reforming the system. And today, the basic elements of it have been listed. I would like to pay particular attention to the training of personnel for the IMF system. Today, the National University of the Interior of Kiev has established one of the most powerful modern European centres. And I very much ask you, Mr. Dennis, to pay attention to the issue of social protection, the raising of wages. All of this has to do with our having adequate power. You've named a whole series of tasks that you see in front of you. I would also like to point out that the decisions of our temporary special and investigative commissions both in the Luhansk region and others that have been called today, you have to pay attention to them, because this is our joint work, our deputies and the ministry that you will lead. The Trust MP thinks you have all the qualities you need to be a successful minister. That is why we will vote for your appointment. And we wish you success in a serious civil service.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u112	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u113	Good afternoon! Honorable National MPs, distinguished presidency, government, venerable Denise Anatoliovich, colleagues! According to the classics, "Ukraine is not Russia." And Ukraine is no longer Belarus. And a big contribution to the fact that we are not Russia today and not Belarus is civil society. You and I should keep that in mind. Arsenius Borisovich Avakov remembered this. And I am convinced that Dennis Anatoliovich knows and remembers. The police cannot be used to fight against political opponents and political opposition. The police must be on the watch for the law. I am convinced that, in fact, Ukraine as a free nation, and more than anything else, human rights will be enshrined in the work of Ukraine's new Minister of Interior. We met with Denis Anatoliyovich quite closely within the working group, which was created by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitr Razumkovy, to renew the declaration, as you know, and the constitutional procedure. It was a hard, long, long job, and emotion. And we've seen how the head of the working group is doing, how much he's done with his moral-ethical qualities, the members of the working group, all the factions and groups, and the different ideologically and politically, and on which productive work we've done this work. I think these moral virtues that the candidate has, they're expensive. And here, Denis Anatoliyovich, it is important that you do not spoil these moral and ethical virtues, preserve them and build them up as the minister of the interior. Colleagues, we hope that the police will continue to be politically removed, it is of great importance that a dialogue with society and mutual respect will continue. The State’s enemies, both inside and outside the country, will continue to fear the head of the Ministry. I'm sure Dennis Anatolyovich can do that. Well, and because there are two ministers in the government now Denis Anatoliyovich, ministers among themselves may wish that the economy of Ukraine would finally begin to grow. Thank you. Our MPs support Mr. Monastirski's candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u114	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vátrovitch Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a faction. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, Mr. Dennis, our faction has had enough constructive work with Mr. Monastirssky in the framework of the rule of law as the head of the law enforcement committee. Our positions coincided with the issue of the protection of human rights, the restoration of criminal responsibility for misdeclaration, the strengthening of the criminal responsibility of war criminals. Our views differed greatly with regard to the inequitable functions of law enforcement agencies, the creation of repressive devices, and the strengthening of the police state. In fact, we are the opposition faction, which is the only one in this Parliament that has no responsibility for the budgetary and personnel decisions of the Green government. We didn't vote for any of the ministers. What's more, we're collecting signatures on the resignation of the Zelensky government. And there are now 93 signatures. We encourage colleagues to join these signatures. Otherwise, each of you will be fully responsible for the economic failure, for the tariff crimes that are being committed today and for which fall people will really ask tough questions to Zelenski. I want to say that this discussion about the new Minister of Interior is taking place before the 30th anniversary of Ukrainian independence. This very hall voted in favour of the Declaration of State Sovereignty. And so it's very sad that today, each of you, by a very large scale, are adding to the degradation of the Ukrainian Parliament, turning Ukraine into an office-presidential republic without the right to vote. It was Zelensky who forced Habakkuk to resign. This is Zelensky, not the government or the majority, who will become the next minister. And you allowed the interior minister who wrote a resignation application, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, not to report to the Ukrainian Parliament, not to answer the questions of the Ukrainian deputies. We just heard two words from Mr. Schmigal: I ask you to make an appointment. Similarly, we were denied the right to hear, and why such a candidate was chosen, and how the question of the development of the Ministry was seen by the head of government. And I'm going to point out that this is also his direct responsibility. Dear Mr. Dennis, it's very important to us what was said in your presentation. And we want you to, and we're talking about that serving the state is of course not a sacrifice, it's a great responsibility and an honor. We welcome the fact that you're going to fight drug trafficking, there's an unscented field in your own faction to start this fight. We also welcome the fact that you will have a dialogue with Parliament. And we're ready to work constructively with you to protect the country, to fight the enemy, to protect human rights. We wish that the work of the Ministry that you run would not be politicized to stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u116	Uncluded Vladen Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, dear Denis Anatolyovich! Each era ends sooner or later. Yesterday was the end of the era of Arsen Borisovich Habakkuk, who was the head of the Ministry of Interior for more than seven years. And it ended up like this, I think, with the wise decision of President Vladimir Alexander Zelensky of Ukraine and the wise decision supported by the faction supported by Prime Minister Schmigal. Denis Anatoliyovich is, I think, the optimal and ideal candidate for the post of head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, because it combines both professional and moral and human qualities, the ability to balance polarly different people, the ability to stand the jaguar before the decisive jump. I'm sure the entire Ministry of the Interior will win from such a protagonist, because Dennis Anatoliyevich is a man who is constructive, creative, industrious, talented. That is why we are facing positive reform of the office and the continuation of those who have already begun. Likely, Dennis Anatolyevich, you have good luck and health at every turn of your life, including your work, so that all the intentions you want to pursue are sure to be realized. And those who are not sure whether they are expressing any doubts, I would like to answer that with the words of the Forest of Ukraine, who said, "Why is it in vain? We can't go back. Let's get to work. Let's fight for a new life!" "Live, Ukraine, live for beauty, for truth, for strength, for will!" Dennis Anatolyovich, you're a real warrior, you're a real wise warrior, you're an honest warrior. You are really the people's hope that society will dominate the rule of law and order and that human rights will always be protected. Good road for you, Reverend Denis Anatolyovich! Many and good summers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u118	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u119	Please pass it on to Ustiny Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u120	Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! Dear Denise Anatolyovich! I listened very carefully to your talk, and I asked one question: When will reform take place? We realize, of course, that it is vital that we fight so that we do not crash, that we need a normal border service, that we need a raise in wages. But this raise in wages is exactly what you can find inside the Ministry's largest internal affairs budget. We don't need to buy shockers for people, we don't need to buy expensive cash, raise wages, and clean up the warehouse, please. We need reform of the criminal bloc. We've got a new patrol. But what all Ukrainians are waiting for today is when we have not only a new police force, but a new police force will appear when we have to sit on the Bogowel and not "break" the drug traffic, and these people will fight the drug traffic. So I'm asking you very much to pay attention to the criminal block, and this is what the Supreme Council expects of you, not just the Supreme Council, but the whole society. We have to have, not minions, but police, and that's what we hope you'll do in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I very much wish that we never again have the Princes so that we don’t have to repeat the Kagarlik, so that those who killed Five - Year - old Cyril Tlyavov or Igor Indila will now sit still in pursuit of these people sitting behind bars so that they will never go back to working for the police. So I have a huge request for you as the future head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs: we don't need to do any of the things your predecessors did, we need a new police and a reform of the criminal bloc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u122	Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich. And then we go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u123	People's MP Skork, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Honorable Presidium, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine, Your Honor, Candidate for Minister of Home Affairs! First of all, I want to point out that our faction usually doesn't take part in the personnel vote, and we think it's the area of responsibility of the majority, and it's up to them to take full responsibility for the appointment. At the same time, Your Honor, I can tell you that I enjoyed your speech. I would very much like to see most of what you've said in this rostrum succeed in life. I understand how difficult the situation is right now, and you're going to have to solve it. I'd like to focus your attention on a few points. First. I asked all the candidates for the post of Attorney General the same question: to intensify the investigation of the events of May 2nd in Odessa and the events of Mayan. I believe that without solving this question, without really investigating and punishing the perpetrators of mass killings that have taken place on the direct airs of many television channels, talking about some legality and some other crimes, well, at least cynically. So I would very much like to see serious such disturbances in this regard. I would very much like the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and I would like to express the hope that under your leadership it will not be used as a fight against political opponents. As a matter of fact, sir. I'm sure the Council will support you now, Mr. Future Minister, I wish you success in your new post. And I really want to emphasize once again that if you realize what you just talked about in this rostrum, we will be supporting you in this as an opposition faction. We are ready to put our shoulders on all issues of strengthening the rule of law in our country: the security of our citizens, the real struggle, not the declarative struggle, you can count on our political power with corruption. So we wish you success in your new position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall, and we will proceed to the vote. Dear colleagues, in accordance with articles 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to appoint Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich as Minister of Home Affairs of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:22:06]] For 271 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Congratulations, Dennis Anatolyovich, on your election! I would like to ask the committee of profile, together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to rule on the consequences of the decision we have taken. According to article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ukrainian national deputy Denis Anatoliyovitch Monastirski wrote an application for his appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. The question of the composition of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Powers is addressed immediately after his appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the same meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" puts to the vote a motion for the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich. Please prepare for registration. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:23:36]] For 340. Decision taken. I ask the Rules Committee, together with the Supreme Council's Office, to issue a ruling on the consequences of our decision. Pursuant to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Minister of Interior Denis Anatoliyovich Monastirski is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u125	I, the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich, recognize the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the constant democratic development of society. July 16, 2021.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u126	Congratulations, Denis Anatolyovich, on your appointment! I want success, strength, achievement, and victory. [[Applause]] Let's get to work. Arahami is a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u127	Colleagues, I have specific suggestions and scenarios, how are we going to end this solemn day today?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u128	It's not a show, so there's just an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u129	My proposal is to consider Bills 3360-1, 5557, 5558, 5286, 5129. Then we sing the hymn and say "thank you" to all of our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u130	Is there a denial? There's no objection. I am voting on the proposal made by the distinguished David Georgiyovich, clearly formulated and proposed. Please support and vote. [[12:26:21]] For 295 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the first issue that we are considering is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of discrepancies and the implementation of mortgage and enforcement (registration No. 3360-1). No one insists on the papers? No one insists. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the elimination of discrepancies and the modernisation of mortgage and enforcement (registration No. 3360-1). Please support and vote. [[12:27:23]] For 295 Decision taken. The next question is the creation decree. No, I'm sorry. The next question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act. 5557. Draft National Opposition Act (5557). A letter was received from all factions and groups today at this plenary meeting to consider these two questions: 5557, 5558. We need to make a decision on the matter of 5557 in this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[12:28:29]] For 310 Decision taken. No one insists on the papers? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on the Fundamentals of National Opposition (Registration No. 5557). Please support and vote. [[12:29:02]] For 313 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Next question is 5558. We also need to make a decision on this issue at this plenary meeting, according to the letter I mentioned earlier. Please support and vote. [[12:29:33]] For 325 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a bill amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Number of Armed Forces of Ukraine on the increase in the number of Armed Forces of Ukraine in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Opposition (registration No. 5558). Please support and vote. [[12:30:13]] For 312 Decision taken. Next 5129. This is a draft decree implementing the National Emission Reduction Plan from large combustion plants. Is there a need for discussion? No, it's not. We can put it to a vote. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations a draft regulation implementing the National Emission Reduction Plan from large combustion plants. Please support and vote. [[12:31:02]] For 294 Decision taken. And the final question mentioned by David Georgiyovich is 5286. All the factions and MPs also asked me to consider the matter outside the queue. You are invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the establishment of the Universal Human Responsibilities Day. I'm betting on a motion for adoption as a whole for a decree establishing the All-Ukrainian Human Responsibility Day (registration number 5286). Please support and vote. [[12:31:57]] For 308. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I declare the last plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The hymn is coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-07-16-m0.u131	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, I remind you that the session ends on July 23, 2021. And today, once again, I welcome you to the last plenary day of our work with you in this session. I wish you a successful summer job, effort, well, health. Thank you again.
