ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for electronic registration. I remind you that when you start registering, you need to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to register? People's deputies please register. [[10:03:47]] There are 185 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements to the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups for proposals, announcements and reports. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy, Urban Anatoly Igorovich, the MP's Party for the Future. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u2	Good day, dear colleagues, a respected Ukrainian society! Ten days have passed since the death of our colleague and your colleague, Mr. Anton Polakov. So far we have not received a clear response from law enforcement authorities regarding all the circumstances of Anton Eduardoovich’s death. We hear different insinuations on this subject. And we're the next time, our MP's Party for the Future, as well as family, close and friends, we're going to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General's Office, other law enforcement agencies on the quick, objective, unbiased outcome of the investigation. We want to hear the truth about this. We're sad, too. Unfortunately, we have to note that in parallel with this in this sessionary room, there is an atmosphere of hatred being sown by some of the majority representatives, it is the head of the Social Policy Committee. I hope and our MPs hope that the majority faction will come to the right conclusions, and a person who does not respect other people who sow a man-hating character in his work will not only be removed from five days of plenary meetings but also be removed from the chairmanship of such an important committee as the Committee of Social Policy. Moreover, our parliamentary group believes that we should immediately anticipate the responsibility of all candidates for election positions, including the national deputies of Ukraine and other government officials, to undergo a psychiatric, psychiatric, and psychiatric examination before our appointment. I believe that it will then not be embarrassing in front of the deputy corps and in front of all of Ukraine. The relevant legislative act will be registered by our parliamentary group in the session room. About the government budget project. This plenary week is very special. Our parliamentary group has always pointed out that when we adopt the country's main budget, we should think about increasing the country's minimum wage so that people don't live or survive, but feel normal in this country. It can't be a living minimum of 2 000 400, a minimum pension of 2 000 100, at the current level of price growth for everything, especially for energy, for a subsistence package and a basket to be lower than the actual subsistence minimum, which according to Minsocpolytica is 5,000 dollars. Therefore, we believe that our MPs will be willing to support the budget, taking into account the fact that we remember people and remember this uncomplicated period of the next heating season that they will have to live through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u3	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsabal Volodymyr Vladimir Vladimirovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u4	Please pass it on to Password Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u5	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u6	Roman Lozinski, “Justice. ” Dear colleagues, on this day, October 19, 2014, in Lugansk, saving his brothers, Victor Gurniak, the pseudo "Hart" died. And I would ask all of us today to honor the moment of silence of one of the Ukrainian soldiers who gave his life for Ukraine. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. I'd like to start with the words of our contemporaneous song: "When a war breaks into a door, they won't protect words and seals on paper. We need to go, we need to take arms and the right to life to stand down in the top of the battle.".. These words best characterize Victor Gurniak — journalist, plasticist, volunteer, and volunteer. Victor became a volunteer in 2014, and he went out to serve, although his wife and daughter were waiting for him at home. Victor Gurniak died that day, saving his brothers under the fire of Russian invaders, Russia, an aggressor who fought against us in the eighth year, died fighting for our country. In 2021, virtually recently, Victor was posthumously assigned to the title Hero of Ukraine. For seven years we waited for his memory and his work to be honored. I thank President Zelenski, who finally honored Victor’s memory. Victor Gurniak and thousands who have fallen for our Fatherland deserve to be remembered in street names or scientific scholarships. But you know who doesn't deserve to be called heroes of Ukraine -- moral collaborators, Moscow amazes, who are now cooperating with the Russian Federation, recognize occupational administrations, or receive Russian citizenship, and in the eighth year of the war, publicly support the bloody terror and the Putin regime. Moral collaborators should not be called heroes of Ukraine. So my fellow national deputies and I, together with all the factions and groups, have registered a bill depriving the heroes of Ukraine of the state's financial assistance of all the collaborators who have gone to the side of the enemy. I call on President Zelensky and this Parliament to support this initiative to honor the memory of true heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u7	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u8	Please give the word to Daniel Getmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u9	Danilo Alexanderovich of the Getmans, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome us with the fact that we are finally going back to our regular work and to making decisions that people really expect from us. We're actually facing quite a lot of challenges right now. The world, Europe, faced a high price for gas. Nevertheless, the government has done its utmost to set tariffs for both the population and the budgetary institutions. The problem is solved by making a memorandum with local government authorities, according to which local government authorities will receive 4 percent of VAT next year, as well as an additional excise tax. Arrests will be removed from the accounts of the thermal utility companies, and substantial assistance will also be provided to low - tax regions. Also another challenge is clearly COVID, and there are numbers that we see with you every day, every morning, on the chart about diseases and deaths. That's why I encourage the entire room to move away from the usual for some of the opposition forces of the fall of hysteria and the prophesying of the apocalypse, and to focus on the work that people are looking forward to. First, unlock the anti-oligarchy laws so that we can finally break the back of an oligarchic hydra. The second is Bill 5459 on NABU. We must continue anti-corruption reform with you and ultimately ensure the independence and effectiveness of the NAB. We must adopt Law 5850 with you and be associated with it on the institutional independence of the National Bank of Ukraine. We have to adopt a budget with you this week in the first reading, a realistic budget for next year. And it's also a related bill of 5600, a resource bill that allows, on the one hand, to concentrate money in the state budget, and on the other hand, it's part of an anti-oligarchy package. We should also approve with you in the first reading of Bill 5865 on the introduction of capital markets, so necessary for the second-level pension system. And another law is the Law on Part Guarantee Fund for Agriculture, which farmers expect us to do. The Euro-Integration Laws that we will consider at an extraordinary meeting are equally important and are no less in keeping with people's aspirations and expectations. So I want to call on everyone to work, to give up politics, and to be effective. And health to all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u11	The word is given to Ukraine's National Deputy to Plattskovi Tetyana Mikhailovni, the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u12	Please give the word Coltunovich Alexandre Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u13	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u14	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! The rapid decline in income and living standards, record illness and mortality on COVID-19, the next increase in utility costs, total poverty, record wages, payments and so on. The failure of European integration against the backdrop of the abolition of the actual moratorium on roundwood exports, foreign political and external economic isolation of the country, the scandals over money laundering and offshore in Washington Post, the Guardian and Forbes are all Ukraine of Greens. A country that is not actually fit for living, a country that is more likely to resemble awashing pits of corrupt, raw, economic retardation. Look at the structure of the economy with a totally poor population, and a country without a future. This country is being built by Zelensky, who does not accept our criticism and the alternative course of the country. It does not define fiscal, fiscal, customs, or any other economic policy that is actually to be the basis for the recovery of the national economy today. Today, instead of dealing with economic and social issues, President Zelenski is engaged in purely illegal and anti-constitutional matters. The one who is to be a guarantor of the Constitution acts contrary to the Constitution and violates it is imposing illegal, unconstitutional sanctions on members of our party, on Victor Medvedchuk, and on members of his family. Instead of dealing with the urgent issues that concern people, tariff policies, employment issues, stimulating the real economy, we only have illegal falsified criminal persecution. By the way, yesterday in an interview or the day before yesterday, Vladimir Zelensky finally confessed to all the fabricated and falsified criminal persecution and insinuation of Victor Medvedchuk. It turns out that he wants to put pressure on Vladimir Putin, an absurd thing that is also made of Ukrainian television channels, in which we saw even Medvedev's position. So from this point of view, in our view, if the President wants to stand up for some bilateral economic or other relationship with the Eastern neighbour, let him sit at the table of negotiations rather than engage in illegal, unconstitutional sanctions against our leader and the head of the opposition platform for life. To conclude, I would like to point out that as of today, you've already spoken for the agenda, we need a whole new set of steps. The first is the adoption of our tariff reduction bills. The adoption of our bills to make changes to the budget, to raise minimum wage, minimum wage. These are real steps for overcoming poverty and for the hot season. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u15	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich. Timishenko Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u16	I welcome the Hall and the country that is now listening to the Council. I think that most people just have to think about how health wants today the middle class of the majority in the Supreme Council. I think if you'd heard what they're saying about everything they've accepted here, I think you'd have a different appreciation for the job and the majority and the authorities. I can tell you that there is now a full-scale energy crisis in Ukraine. The European Commission has come out with a special communiqué on what every government in the European Union must do to protect countries, people, businesses from the energy crisis that is now unfolding. I can tell you that we do things that no one pays any attention to. First. This is what we know with you that the cost of Ukrainian gas is 1 bracelet, sold by 7, in the budget area by 13. Mediators have simply flooded this system, and corruption has now reached its climax in the reselling of Ukrainian natural gas. The other one. You know, for industry today, the price goes up to 50 dollars per cubic meter of gas. It's all the industries that produce food, what's necessary for people's lives, it's almost a month away from having prices that can't be available to people for anything: neither for food, nor for essentials. Do you realize that inflation is just going to reach the highest levels? The third thing we need to understand today is that the fertilizer for our crops at the price of 50 dollars per cubic meter will not be available. We're in danger of a soybean. I also want to warn you that we don't have coal deposits, we don't have enough natural gas in our natural gas depots to go through a heating period. And what we need to do now is not tell stories from the rostrum and just lie to people, but we need to move immediately under the Law on the Gas Market and adopt a state of emergency in energy, and we need to adopt a national action programme that is fully in line with what the European Commission is advising. Not to raise taxes, but to withdraw VAT on energy. Direct support and business grants to key strategic sectors. Today, people and local budgets must be protected. We demand an immediate meeting with the Prime Minister. We need an immediate review of the draft budget, it does not correspond to reality, and we need immediate action on the basis of a national action plan to save the country during this period.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u17	The word is given to the People's Deputy Boris Viktorovich. Oleg Ivanovich Kulinic, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. I would like to raise the questions that have been addressed to the members of our group in the past week. This is a major problem in making contracts with gas suppliers for budgetary institutions. First of all, tenders just don't happen because there aren't any participants. Even 30-35 bracelets per cubic meter, no one wants to supply gas to the budgetary institutions. These are real facts that are in place. And these are schools, these are kindergartens, these are hospitals. I realize there's a huge social tension around this issue and there's absolutely nothing to panic about, it's not necessary. But I would like to be heard by the government, and in a short period of time, I would like to draw attention to the problems that I have just heard. It is a good thing that a memorandum has been drawn up between the government, Naftogaz, and representatives of local self - government. But in fact, a memorandum is not a law or even a legal act, so it's better to solve it at the legislative level. It is necessary to either draw budgetary institutions out of the separate provisions of the Public Procurement Act and allow them to participate on their own, or allow them to make contracts with the providers of the "last hope", or raise the threshold of purchase for them. By the way, we could make these changes to Bill 5289, which has long been required by our group, which should have long been considered in the session room. It is supported by the Association of Cities of Ukraine. It is supported by all local self - government. The same topic is increasing the purchasing threshold for socially important product groups. Secondly, even with regard to a temporary solution to the government, there are some problems. Naftogaz has developed an Exemplary Agreement on the Supply of Gas to Budget Institutions, but it includes the provision of services between 2021 and 2022, and communities can only make contracts within one fiscal year. There may be problems with the registration of contracts with electronic digital signatures. Today, Treasury requires original signatures and seals. Another problem. One document, without which it is impossible to conclude a contract with Naftogaz, is an act of credulity with a previous supplier that testifies to the absence of debts. But such acts are not always issued urgently, and other documents for Naftogaz are not appropriate. Again, what if there are debts, what do schools, kindergartens? What should hospitals do? So the Trust MP group is calling on the government to resolve these problems in a short time, which I've just heard. This depends on the conditions under which schools, kindergartens, hospitals will work, and the heating season. The main thing is the health of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u19	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Nina Petrovni, the "European Solidarity" faction. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, I understand, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u20	Dear Ukrainians, Ukraine is ready for a new wave of COVID – assured the sport master of the fight against Vladimir Zelenski's coronavirus, attention, already in July of this year. I lied again. Because in the last month, we've been among the leaders of the world's coronavirus mortality rate, and Ukrainian medicine has once again faced a lot of resuscitations and oxygen shortages. "Ukraine is ready for a heating season of 99 percent," Prime Minister Zelenski said two weeks ago. I lied. Coal in TES warehouses is four times less than normal. The promised cheap gas for the population is three times less than the promised gas. Because when it was necessary to fill shelters at lower prices, the authorities directed all the money to their "stolenting". Total lie led Zelensky to power. Now total lies have become the government policy of Zelensky. So regions one by one are in a state of emergency because they are unable to burn schools, kindergartens filled with COVID patients. So millions of the poorest have taken the right to subsidies to use those funds for "great theft." "European Solidarity" requires immediate consideration of the budget changes – 6006, to distribute $2.7 billion from the IMF. In particular, these funds need to be focused on increasing subsidies, on the 13th pension for pensioners in November, and on countering the new wave of COVID. Today’s energy crisis began as authorities began to destroy Russia’s energy independence. In two years, the Greens paid the Kremlin more than $3 billion for coal and electricity. Wouldn't a similar trade with an aggressor be investigated by the Henprocurator? Is it the financing of terrorism, or is it the godfather, or the marriage of Greens from the State Bank, a crime? But law enforcement even ignores Zelensky's appearance, who confessed to treason because he personally warned Lukashenko of the "vagners" in Belarus before they were apprehended. From this confession comes – it was Zelensky who poured classified information to the enemy security forces, destroying the operation. To the Ukrainians, it is shocking that Zelensky has actually turned out to be a cynical and greedy rich man who does not pay taxes and a military congregation, has villas in Italy, apartments in London, and occupied Crimea, tens of millions of hidden dollars. In other countries, through international journalists’ published material, investigations, resignations, and impeachments are being carried out, and we are the only ones who have our legal guardians closing our eyes. Green is not a Goldbeard, it's a professional liar involved in both treason and possible offshore laundering of stolen funds, and it's a tax evasion, and it's a terrorist financing. But it's not his own incompetence, it's not his own corruption, it's not Putin's fault. Who's to blame? That's right, Comrade Peter. And we've been hearing this for 2.5 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u21	Yes, Your Honor, the time for speeches is over, but before I go into the agenda, I would like to inform you that a statement has come from two factions to announce a recess with a replacement for the performance. Who's speaking? It's chess, isn't it? Sergei Volodymyrovich Shahov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u22	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, MP group "Trust. Dear colleagues, the situation is very important today in a country with a heated season. Some cities already have a state of emergency: Lviv, Zacarpatje, Ivano-Frankivsk. The issue needs to be resolved immediately. The question of the memorandum signed by Kabmin with OTG is not included in any of the boxes. They signed 7.92, then they promised the price of gas 6.92 per cubic meter, and today they break these contracts and force OTG to sign 37-45 thousand dollars at the price of gas. What kind of bus will schools, kindergartens, hospital baths that are overcrowded be paid for today? The budget area has practically fallen asleep. Today, there are no grants from the state budget for OTG, and OTG heads are being hit by flashes. Both the COVID and the heads of the OTG are being struck by flashes today. There is also a problem in the energy field today. For the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, the NCREKP had an electricity price of 5.70, 4.80, a minimum of 4.18, although in Kiev it costs 3.60 external electricity. Business is going down, economy is going down. Today, small, medium, and large businesses are also being hit by a crisis in the energy sector. Now the coal is completely gone, and four times the coal has been reduced. 600,000 tons of coal in warehouses alone, and there should be 2 million 800,000 coals in the country. Once again, the energy crisis, the crisis in the heating season -- something has to be done. We can't get ahold of the heads of OTG. We can't be touched by ordinary people. The situation is also a problem with OSBB. Why was the OSBB likened to jurosi, where normal people living in the houses that were built today by OSBB for a better life? They threw the glove to the authorities, came out of the HKG, started paying for bigger tariffs, building their roofs, laying, and so forth, heat seams. Today, the authorities are harassing the leaders and residents of the OSB. We demand that Bill 6064 be put to the vote immediately so that he can go through the committees and resolve the issue of not being excluded from the debt of the city and the OTG, as well as from the ordinary consumer. The OSB was not excluded from its debts. We demand that this bill be put to the vote immediately in order for it to pass through the committees. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, trust MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, the list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making, is given to you today. Let us go to their consideration. The first question for consideration is proposed. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you. From the procedure? But we're already on the subject. Please proceed with Heratchenko's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u24	Dear Ukrainians! Everyone remembers last week, Parliament swallowed the spikeriad. And the reasonable majority withdrew from office, replied that he did not comply with the Rules, and that the Conciliation Council for Razumkova did not vote in favour of the agenda of the session. I want to say that today we need to postpone the new Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Stefanchuk, because yesterday, during the Conciliation Council, the order of the day session was not voted on. And that's why we're proposing, Mr. Stefanchuk, to remove you from your post because yesterday, during the Conciliation Council, we talked about anything but the order of the day session, and we didn't vote on it. I mean, from the first minute of your talk, you're doing worse than you're doing with Razumkov. You're in violation of procedure, Rules. And yesterday the order of the day was not voted out this week. That's why we're proposing to take you away from this meeting right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u25	Can I have a statement from two factions, so that Helen Constantine can begin her normal procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u26	There's no two factions? All right, let's move on. I'm just reminding you there should be a signature under the Rules. As long as he's not here, I'll keep going. Okay. Dear colleagues, today we are continuing our consideration of the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the plenary meeting on Friday, October 8, we discussed and approved the procedure. For this, 229 national deputies of Ukraine voted. I'll remind you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I remind you that according to the Rules, we have approved the following procedure for examining the question: statements by candidates with a report on their programmes of activity, up to 20 minutes; replies by deputies to questions by national deputies, up to 9 minutes; then 1 minute for each oral question and 2 minutes for the answer to it; then statements by MPs and groups, up to 21 minutes (3 minutes each); then statements by national deputies, up to 6 minutes. And then we'll move on to making a decision. In accordance with articles 31 and 37 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I now give the floor to the candidate for the post of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyyovich Korniyenka, to publicly announce the conflict of interest. First, public declaration of conflict of interest. Public announcement. Do you want to come from the rostrum? Please. And then, Sofia Romanovno, you will also declare public conflict, and then you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, I'd like to state a conflict of interest. When I consider this issue, I will not participate in the discussion and the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u28	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. In accordance with articles 31, 37 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I give the floor to the candidate for the post of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Romanovna Fedini, to publicly announce the conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u29	I declare a conflict of interest and will not take part in the discussion and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u30	Thank you. Anyone else want to claim a conflict of interest? None. Therefore, honourable national deputies, the word is given to the candidate for the position of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenka, for up to 20 minutes. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u31	I hope that I can do better to save time for our important work. Dear colleagues, Your Honor Mr. Head, Mrs. Vice-Spyer! What tasks lie ahead of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I quote: "The First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is responsible for organizing and other work on the interaction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the executive authorities, the local self-government authorities, on the preparation of a draft bill on the State budget of Ukraine for the year and on its implementation, and on the development of a project on the resources of the Supreme Council, as well as on the implementation of the Supreme Council and its bodies, legislative activities, legislative procedures and supervisory functions." Of course, the primary tasks of the First High Council Vice - Speaker are to carry out these important current tasks and other tasks under the authority of the Head of the Supreme Council. Let's start with the legislative work and the legislative procedure. We won't talk about her for long. I want to remind you that you and I are getting a salary right under the budget programme 0111010, which reads as follows: "Implementing the legislative activities of the Supreme Council." So this is our most important function and people expect us to do this -- quality laws, regulations and other decisions. The quality of these documents depends directly on the position of the Supreme Council’s leadership, in particular the first Vice - Speaker. In the Queen's relationship with executive authority, the Supreme Council's control functions are always the prospect of improving this interaction. Let's start with a banal but unfortunately sad is communication with representatives of ministries and central executive authorities who do not always consider it necessary to appear on committees or to respond to the basic control requests of committees and individual deputies. And by completing the system's work that we are already doing thanks to Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, this is the development of a real plan for billing work and real bills in a triangle: the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Office of the President of Ukraine. The interaction with local governments is another separate area of work. As a representative of the local self - government committee, she has come to understand, close, and familiar. That's the subject of a single 20-minute performance, and we're not going to stop at that either. I will point out that one of the tasks of the reform of the Supreme Council that I see before me is to review the principles and conditions of interaction with local self-government, which has recently been formed in the form of bureaucratic advisory councils. We need to move to the local self-government bodies directly with the committees, not just with the local self-government, but with the budget, with the tax. The voice of self-government should be loud in the Supreme Council, and it will sound and be heard here. Working on the preparation of the state budget is one of the most important functions of the Supreme Council. In this area, I see the task of improving budgetary procedures, making them more transparent and understandable not only to colleagues from the profile committee, but also to all the national MPs. Against the backdrop of the basic tasks of the Rules and other tasks of the Head of the Supreme Council, one of the main systemic tasks that I see ahead of me and which have been put before me by representatives of our political power, the President of Ukraine is reform of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is not the first reform that has long been taking place. This is not the first reform that has been delayed for years until better times have come. And this is not the first reform to be implemented through the political will of our team. As with decentralization, as with land reform, as with market openings, with anti-corruption, with judicial reform, and many others. It's time, fellows, to apologize for this tautology, to reform ourselves. What do I see in this direction? We need to decide whether the effects of old politics will be overcome or whether parliament will become a new, efficient institution with confidence in society; whether or not we will remain in a post-Radians parliamentary situation that has never been an engine and has always been a brake to important transformations and reforms. I want to emphasize that our task is not to put up with everything. We need to make sure that reforms do not sink in Parliament, so that they are effectively adopted and worked for people, for the state and for the future country. And that means making the procedures transparent and efficient. If we're building a smart state with you for us and our children, we need a smart parliament to build it faster and more effectively. Parliament should remain a place for discussion, which is its purpose, because this is where social interests are aligned and compromises are found. But don't forget, Parliament is not just a place for discussion. The Supreme Council is an authority from which people expect results for themselves. Procedure is important, democracy is procedure. But who said that we should continually follow the procedures that were created in the era of old politics were designed to preserve the most important of its qualities — corruption and lies? Don't we have the right to change the procedure for a more efficient and capable parliament? If you and I have changed the map of Ukraine, canceled the disgraceful moratoriums, opened markets, there should be enough political will and expertise to reform the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A comprehensive reform of parliamentary procedures and processes is needed, otherwise Parliament will continue to suck water in step, halting the transformation of the country, and people will give us an honest assessment. Trust in our institution at the moment is 3 percent. I suggest we start doing something, or it's going to be negative 3, negative 30 and negative 300. What is the key direction in reforming the Supreme Council? If I were asked to say it in a word, I would say it's modernization. Modernization of the 2010 Rules of Procedure, internal procedures, many of them since the 1990s. Enough has been said about the Rules in recent times. Clearly, we need to sit down and do, discuss, discuss, find common ground. It will be a hard discussion, a hard one, but it will definitely give birth to the truth. 12 years, three summonses, a series of independent audits, such as the Pet Cox mission, a series of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. What else do we need to start reforming the Rules? That question was clearly mature and matured a long time ago. I also invite opposition representatives in the first place, because we know that you have many experienced parliamentarians, and you have co-authors of the 2010 Rules. Of course, we also invite a coalition to develop an updated Rules of Procedure for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But let's start doing this right here tomorrow, without delay, without delay, without delay, or asking questions in different work groups, pseudoworking groups. The Supreme Council’s apparatus, without losing its institutional memory and expertise, needs to become a flagman of reforms, primarily parliamentary reform, rather than a place, you know, of reprisals in important public positions at a public expense. It's impossible without modernization. The bill on parliamentary service and the work of our consulting assistants is already ready for second reading, as part of its discussion, we will rediscover important positions. We need to digitize, dijitalize processes in the VR. Because now only the passing of drafts is digitized, so many processes are still on paper. We need to ensure the uninterrupted operation of the Supreme Council's technical infrastructure, about which there are many complaints by national MPs, we need to modernize the service and management services of the Supreme Council's apparatus, starting with the base and ending with the IT sector. Last but not least, serious modernization awaits the Supreme Council's communication with voters and the activities of parliamentary media, including the Rada Channel, the Voice of Ukraine. These media, I remind you, actually work at the expense of taxpayers, that's about 100 million dollars a year, so they have to produce content that's clear, interesting to Ukrainians not only by content, but also by form. Let's make our parliamentary media the modern Ukrainian normal state media. I don't think that's hard. [[Applause]] Thank you. I don't think it's hard, given the number of medics that are both in Parliament and around Parliament, we've got enough expertise. With regard to external media outlets, our relationship should be transparent and predictable, without sudden decisions that should then be reversed and long explained what you have done. Finally, our working conditions need to be modernized. Let's finish the process of changing the voting system in the room to a more modern, new, protected one. Let us do this in accordance with world standards and in order for our Parliament to look and work as a modern European Parliament. I don't think it's hard to do that. I just need to take it seriously. Clearly, in these reforms, we have a number of tactical tasks: overcoming parliamentary spam, improving the quality of the bills that are proposed for consideration; clear legislative regulation of both coalitions and opposition; and finally addressing our painful issues with parliamentary ethics and parliamentary behaviour, as our colleagues from external missions have also told us. I'm not a proponent of introducing, you know, parliamentary settings, but exactly with discipline we need to do something sometimes. I've listed not all the plans and innovations I've planned to do in this position of responsibility, but I'm sure if we do this together, we can do it with you. We have a chance to make these changes quickly and qualitatively, to prove that Parliament in Ukraine can be effective, effective and modern. So I invite colleagues, whether you are in the coalition or not, to work together on the changes to the Rules, on the changes in the work of the Apparatus and on the reform of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I believe that the Supreme Council can work for people and be clear to people. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u32	Heroic glory! Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the members of the National People's Council to sign up for the appointment of First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Alexander Sergiyyovich Kornienka. Please note, this is scheduled to take up to nine minutes. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Grishenko Tetjani Mikolayovni, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Grishku Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u34	Roman Gritchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u35	Alexander Sergiyovich, you have talked a lot about parliamentary reform, particularly the implementation of the recommendations of the Pet Cox mission. I have a question. How do you feel about the creation of a research service in our Parliament to provide analytical support for the activities of the national deputies? Research Service, how do you feel about creating such a service in our Parliament?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. Let me give you a quick answer, because I've been deeply absorbed in the history of the question over the past two weeks, where did such a thing as the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority come from, which was the story of its origin? Why does GNEU prepare us for the first reading of the laws, and for the second, the Chief Legal Authority? It's been two years since I've asked a question like the MP, and now I've learned a little bit more about it. Indeed, the reform of such an accompanying draft legislation, it is in time, needs to be talked about. How do we do that? We need to make a deal with you, with the deputies first, with our colleagues. Because there are some traditions, as it has become, and there's a need for deputies to be really independent expertise, it's less, let's say, involved in some kind of experiment. in its own position there, which is often given to us by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, some of its opinions. I think the research service could work more impartially, as they say, and simply equip us with it. At the same time, let's not forget that we have a structure like the Law Institute. We also finance a large amount of money -- about 20 million dollars. There's a lot of experts, a lot of scientists, there's scientists. And the Supreme Council's Law Institute could have started to be this research service, but for that we need some more things inside this institution, so to speak, to be subjected. So I think we're going to do that, too, and it's a matter of time, understanding the quality of the drafts. Well, here's the question: who determines quality. Because we have a lot. You know, they say "inadequate bill" on Facebook somewhere. Well, where did it go? Who's talking about it? Is that what an academic says, or is it a wonderful expert? But we still have to work on it. Clearly, the quality is then defined by implementation: if the bill cannot be implemented, as for me, qualitatively, at the level of Kabmin's decisions, it probably wasn't developed very qualitatively.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u37	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Ms. Valery Sergiyovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u38	I'd like a word with my colleague, Coltunovich Alexander. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u39	Alexandre Sergiyovich, I asked you in detail about your biography. I'd like to ask you a question, and first of all, to say that you have a really powerful education in the chemical technology of inorganic substances, which sounds really cool. And, of course, you have a lot of experience with Electrospec Plus. I wanted to ask. What's in First Vice Speaker's office? Both the vice-picker and the head coordinate a certain cluster of issues. With this kind of specific education and work experience that you're going to be dealing with: it's a question of digital economy, it's a question of urbanization, right? I wonder what economic, perhaps social, questions? Because there's a specificity. Well, for example, when he was the first vice-species student of the National Academy of Law and Legal, we knew he was closing down the legal block. We also understand the humanitarian block. What area do you plan to cover professionally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u40	Thank you. As I said, one of the main tasks is to form the Supreme Council. I think to reform, you don't have to be a chemist or a biologist or a mathematician or an economist, you have to have political will and a plan to do that. And if you look at the reforms that have been done in the last two years, I'm not sure that the education that's profiled in the field of local self-government is on our team that's been reforming decentralization, but we just took it and did it, by making up what the previous authorities were afraid of, somehow didn't want, somewhere, and so on. I mean, in order to reform, I don't think that you need some kind of educational competence, you have to understand exactly how this system is structured. And here, Mr. Alexander Sergiyovich, also, yes, engineering education serves as a plus, because it's the engineers who teach the systems, and I've been taught how to study systems. We can discuss with you the current and future state of our chemical industry. I know that you are also aware of these issues. As for applied issues, we have a real interaction with local self-government authorities, this is a task under the Rules of First Intercessor. And I think I have something to do here, I understand that. I'm not in Kiev every two weeks, I'm in the regions. I see the problems that local self - government faces, unfortunately, as a result of some of our decisions, let us be honest with ourselves. Because we care about the state, and self-government is always as local as it is in opposition, but it has other needs, sometimes they don't meet the needs of the state. So our task is to harmonize everything and make sure that the voice of self-government, as I said, is heard here. And the real thing is that when we develop and implement our laws, we listen more to our colleagues from the places not only by way of majorists, which we do, but directly, because this kind of interaction is also necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u41	Thank you. Once again, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović. This is the last time you've been given a word, and this is your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u42	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Alexander Sergiyovich, why I asked that question, because I do not agree in part. In my opinion, the modernization of the law system has lawyers, the economy has economists, and so on. That's why I came out from this point of view, in no way demeaning a knowledge field, but rather saying it's specific, but it looks cool. That's the first one. But second of all, I'd like to ask you exactly what. We have been facing injustice for two years as an opposition faction to bring the number of bills submitted into the agenda of the Supreme Council and the session as a whole. You and I understand even the principle of the formation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where there is a proportional principle, i.e. the ratio of the number of factions to the total number of MPs and the corresponding percentage -- that is exactly the percentage of the bills that have been submitted. When do we come to this, and will we come to this in the next two years that our Supreme Council chooses you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u43	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. It's not easy either. It's also in the Queen of the Opposition Act, with which we still have a little bit of difficulty going, because we have a lot of opposition in Parliament, and I think that when the opposition makes a deal with each other, it'll be a little easier. But it's not likely that he'll start working from this call, because by the time we develop it, we'll accept it, it'll probably be about the next call. As for the quota for the submission of bills. If you look at it, there are already several drafts of opposition in the daytime for this week, and there are also your bills, your factions as alternatives. But we can work on this so that, in fact, more are represented. I don't think "The Opposition Platform for Life" should be complaining, because your drafts are exactly what we've been looking at. I remember a lot about social issues and so on. Clearly, much depends on the committees. Unfortunately, we cannot consider bills that are not recommended by the committees, so far the Rules have been drawn up. Maybe we can change it. I'm actually a supporter, and I'm going to talk to my colleagues about this, and I'm going to convince them, a supporter of the opposition day in the Supreme Council, that could happen once a month, where there would be an order of day within the opposition, but once again, that the opposition would understand what the bills would be. We could still come in, object, express our opinions, and do so once a month on an opposition day. As far as interaction in the Supreme Council is concerned, it is also clear that if we are talking about the Opposition Law, we need to talk about the Coalition Law, and together we need to develop and adopt it. Because the principles of the legislative existence of the coalition are very few. There's a few words in the Constitution and a few words in the Cabinet Act about the Cabinet. So we need to work on all of this. Thank you for your helpful and developing questions, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u44	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich. Alexander Sergiyovich, I'm sorry, Olena Konstantinovna, if you don't mind, has another question for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u45	This, Mr. Alexander, is not beyond time, this is from the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so get used to it. Mr. Alexander, I have a question. I certainly support your entire rhetoric today, which concerns the return of confidence in parliamentaryism, thanks to the tools that you have listed, including, in particular, the proposals that have already been made to us by the Fifth Cox Mission. Of course, that is very appropriate. Please tell me, at all these suggestions that you've said, what do you want to do, have you done a budget calculation that will be needed to implement all these proposals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u46	That's a good question. When it comes to money, it always becomes clear. You know, Olena Constantine, I think you and I, as deputies, can already see that there are certain ways for internal budget optimization. In any state body, I've seen it in two years in power, in a huge body like the Supreme Council, where more than a thousand people work exactly, and dozens of enterprises and institutions, there are definitely ways to optimize. I think the first path should be an internal one, so to speak, our efforts to find how to optimize it, how it's an internal resource to provide. On the other hand, I think you also know that we are not alone in this reform, we are supported by international partners. We have a programme that, unfortunately, ended a week ago, supported by the European Union, implemented by UNDP. I think we're going to ask our partners to continue this program. It's an external audit, it's support for social networking, it's that the functions that the Supreme Council itself can't perform so far. We will also address other colleagues from other structures and, in particular, from different parliaments. When we were visiting and colleagues were visiting, parliaments always offer some support from other countries. Some parliaments even offered their system to us. Clearly, the security issue cannot be accepted immediately. But we are not alone in this activity. On the other hand, I think that if confidence in Parliament were to increase, a small gradual increase in costs would also be possible. If we explain to people what it's going to be like, and how it's going to affect the quality of laws that will affect the quality of people's lives. You don't have to forget that either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u47	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a candidate for the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sofia Romanovna Fedina. Please, Sophia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u48	Respectable company, fellows! First of all, I would like to thank the faction of European Solidarity for the trust and support that I am trying to justify every day of my life in the work that I am entrusted with by the people of Ukraine. So that's what we're going to talk about. Ukraine is a parliamentary-presidential republic. And so Parliament is not just the only legislative body, but it is also the structure that defines the principles of internal and external policy, which approves the state-wide programmes that exercise parliamentary control over processes that take place in the state, and above all reflects the sovereign will of the Ukrainian people. And here I would like to point out that the sovereign will of the people is not what brings down the President's Office, but what is enshrined in the Constitution. This is what's defined by historical milestones. That's what's reflected in the aspirations and the valid Dignity Revolution, the resistance to Moscow aggression and the desire to live in Ukraine, where dignity, freedom, human rights is not an empty place and a cheap green button. And when we talk about the future of parliamentaryism today, what Parliament should be like today, especially in the context of the spikeriads, many people mentioned the values, I would like to stress that the disgrace to Parliament, when values are tolerated in the paradigm of what difference, love in the eyes of Putin, contempt and panic fear of the army, the Nazi division of people into quality and inadequacy, contempt for law and procedures, because in some people, most of them, and until "voluries," prostitutes, rape, drunken driving, outright lying, abruptly unpaid taxes on offshore and all around. So when we have such a high debate today, I would very much like all the parliamentarians to rise above this at some point and realize that Parliament is not a place for the realization of corruption or of their own interests, but it is a place where the foundation of the Ukrainian State is written, and each of us is accountable here before the law and before God. That is why we must make every effort to make our Parliament better. What's the best part? First of all, Parliament must be Ukrainian, and it must protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens. And this protection can be implemented through a few directions. First of all, it is the protection of the Ukrainian army, which is the guarantor of our tomorrow under the conditions of permanent Moscow aggression. And it is Parliament today that has to solve and prevent such problems as debt to our advocates for an advance, which is over 1.5 billion, to ensure their social protection. It is Parliament that must stop the manipulation of the defence budget. It is Parliament that must demand the execution of a state defence order. It is Parliament that must become a reliable backdrop for our defenders to keep their defenses on the front, on the front. The second is the protection of our citizens. And here I'm going to point out, citizens, not oligarchs. Because it's unacceptable when Parliament frees large businesses and oligarchs from any tax in the context of the first declaration and the withdrawal of funds from offshore and offers people a tax surplus of total taxation, which is accompanied by criminal liability. And so, colleagues, I understand that it's not interesting for you to listen, but I'm going to say that it's insane not to show up for a back-up session that deals with pensions, social support, subsidies, and business support, especially at the time of the coronavirus. The important issue of protection is also the protection of the position and legal place of the Ukrainian State in the midst of democratic and legal states. Because it is not normal for the pro-Moscow Hebism secretaries to be responsible for the foreign policy of the Ukrainian state at a time when they were to bring paper and pens. At the same time, the same secretaries show a hammock and a superior attitude toward our international partners. Yes, given the reality, Parliament is to become an active defender of Ukraine in the international arena, actively, expeditiously, responding severely to any act of interference with the rights of Ukraine and Ukrainians, to defend the position of the State in the international arena, especially in the context of the trust of our partners in us. And it's a wild situation where there's an attempt to hide, a merger of a special operation to detain Wagner's I.V.V.C. killers, or, for example, silence an offshore 95 that kills the image of Ukraine and undermines the trust of investors that are critical today. But also our Parliament, if we already have a European development course enshrined in the Constitution, it must be European. What does that mean? In particular, Parliament, which actively implements the provisions of the Association Agreement with the EU, adopts laws on ensuring Euro-Atlantic integration. But I'm going to go higher, and once again, to the level of values that so much like to talk about, especially in the context of the spikeriades, is the rule of law. Because the rule of law cannot be built by illegal, illegal methods. This is a procedure that today’s current parliament allows itself to be raped in an unnatural way, especially in the last few weeks. And especially in this context, there's a lot of phrases that, frankly, put any civilized parliamentarian on the shovels, that they gave us that kind of trust loan, that we have the right to do what we want, and why that rule -- it's a hindrance to us. This is unacceptable in a democratic rule of law. The European Parliament is also a right of discussion, which is given to everyone, not just the authorities. It is the right to correction, the right to defend its position, and not one day a month. Because today such petitions are proposed to create a concentration camp for opposition so that no one has the right to vote except for the power of power. Parliament is not discrimination at the same time, and it is also a matter of competence. And in this context, it's absolutely wild to say that you don't need competence or education to carry out reforms. I'm sorry, but the children in the garden know that education and competence are necessary if you don't want to threaten the Ukrainian state. But Parliament also needs to become synonymous with quality and responsibility, and not only with legislative initiatives. In particular, in legislative initiatives, it's worth mentioning that loved ones in this room are troubled, that they create problems, they actively distance themselves from problems, and then they heroically deal with these problems, and they report to us as young as we are. But when I talk about quality and responsibility, I also want to point out that parliamentarians need to know, see, hear, understand how people live, what people don't really have today. Parliamentarians should not be afraid of people who are also at stake today. Parliamentarians, MPs should not be afraid to tell the truth, but the more they should not be afraid to hear the truth. So, society, once again, I'm going to point out that they're shooting forwards, they're going to break up grenades, and someone thinks we're immortals at a time when none of us are immortals. If such words violate criminal matters, if the President registers victims, then there is a great problem in the state and Parliament itself must be on guard for the security, defence and protection of Ukrainian statehood. Because unfortunately, the situation on the front is true. Only today, we have seven violations of the ceasefire regime by Moscow mercenaries. Shots fired from prohibited weapons: high-calibre machine guns, automatic tank grenades, and antitank grenade launchers. And so the truth doesn't have to be afraid, the truth has to be found, it has to be followed, and only the truth will allow us to appreciate reality and do everything we can to improve the situation and protect Ukrainian statehood in all its dimensions. Taking this opportunity, I would also like to refer to Mr. Speaker, Mrs. Vicespoker, with a great request that Parliament's leadership restore the tradition of honoring the dead Ukrainian soldiers who were in Ukraine's defense of Moscow aggression, as was done in Parliament's previous summons. Yes, today, thank God, we have no casualties on the forerunner. Every day, though, we owe our protectors and protectors a grand act of protection to our lives and peaceful skies here in Kiev. And it's an important moment. Parliament is also not a place where ridicule of death is tolerated. Death awaits each of us at the appointed time, but to call for freedom of speech at the time of death is a non-parliamentary situation at least. To emphasize, I know you're all set here, and I know you have your own arrangements. But I would very much like that, regardless of the composition of Parliament, regardless of the different factions, here, under the dome of the Supreme Council, the priorities for every parliamentarian are professionalism, orderliness and patriotism, which should be the pillars of our activity, only, in truth, these values are not at all correlated with suffering. So, colleagues, decisions and choices for each of you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u49	Heroim Slava! Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to sign up for the appointment of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of the Ukraine of Sofia Romanovna Fedina, please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Gerus Andry Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u50	Good afternoon! Sofia Romanovna, for the time being, I'm not sure if I'm going to vote for you, so I have a question for you that I'm going to depend on. You studied at Lviv National University at the Faculty of International Relations, worked there as an graduate and then as an associate. So you're an international, you're quite qualified, you have good education. Say, please, in the diplomatic service and in international relations or mandatory, is it one President's appeal to another hand-holding, hugging? And do you plan to use a phrase like "hold a hand," "Hold," as far as the aggressor country officials are concerned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. Yeah, I'm an international. And I'm going to be assistant professor of international relations and diplomatic service now, and I'm continuing to work with my students. I'll tell you that in diplomatic practice and in practice completely human unacceptable things are to take the rescue of a soldier under personal control, leave him four days to bleed, and go to the island of the Chosen Eaters. I think you know who I'm talking about, so that's my answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u52	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kucherenk Aleksija Yuriovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u53	Dear Mrs. Fedina! First of all, I'm personally inclined to support your candidacy. Secondly, continuing the topic raised by the previous speaker. Do you think it's correct on the part of international practice when the head of the committee refers to the Energy Minister of neighbouring Belarus asking imports to provide electricity when our stations are getting ahead? This is to continue the subject. Now, second, the main question. Recently, the whole country has witnessed the signing of a so - called memorandum, a document, a paper that really has no legal significance. But at the same time, this memorandum shows that there are no laws on the natural gas market, on the electricity market, on corporate governance, on the so-called independent regulator, nothing works in this area. How are you going to work? And will you allow me to exchange some memorandums for the legislative work of the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. First of all, today's purchase of electricity from Belarus not only increases our dependence on the Moscow Federation, but also questions the security of our strategic partner in the Republic of Lithuania. And it is Lithuania that is asking us at every meeting not to intensify Moscow's aggressor. But I can see that today there are separate fronts of our dependence on Moscow, particularly in the gas energy field. Ukraine should care for at least two of its energy independence, as was done in the last five years by President Dustenk’s team. The second question. I absolutely agree with you, my colleague, that the memos, unfortunately, are empty statements that have nothing to do with reality. What's more, it's now shifting responsibility from central authority to local self-government for compensating the difference in tariffs, which is insurmountable for local self-government and is essentially undermining decentralization today. As parliamentarians today, we should gather and look for a way out of this situation, which would allow us at least to balance what is currently going on. And in fact, you should not play with President Green's hand toys about oligarchs, you should not defend offshore 95, you should not lobby the gaming business, you should talk and calculate the whole situation a year ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u55	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Polack Vladislav Mikolajovich, MP of "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Bakuncu Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u57	Paul Andriovich Bakunec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u58	Mrs. Sofia, I definitely pay you my respects. You deserve to be highly respected within the realm of Lviv and throughout the country. You care about your Alma mater, your university, which you mentioned here. You also devote much of your energy and time to supporting our defenders and protectors. That's good. Please tell me, in your capacity as Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, how do you plan to build your work with local self-government authorities too?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. This is what I said in my report, my statement that not only should we not be afraid of the truth but we should be able to hear it. And local authorities have been trying for a long time to reach the central authority to hear the problems that are in place today. Unfortunately, as we're looking at the "hours of questions to the government," representatives of the central government, in particular, put the government here, especially in the stands of the deaf wall, not wanting to hear about the problems that there are. So I think that really, as a parliamentary-presidential republic, it's Parliament itself, its competent representatives in communicating all factions, regardless of which wing they belong to, that we need to work out a mechanism to support local self-government. This is the basis of decentralization reform, and we all know that a successful community is the foundation of a successful state. So in this context, I would also like to point out that it's unacceptable to try to narrow decentralization, like, for example, ideas that have sounded particularly in this sessional room, to cancel the decisions of local councils, if Kiev doesn't like them, to remove the mayors, if Kiev doesn't like them. These are unacceptable things. And it's also an important moment. Very often, local communities need not be hindered from doing everything that depends on them. Because somehow now we have attempts at total intervention and control in every decision that makes it impossible to develop a successful community.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u60	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bullah Lady Valentinovni, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u61	Thank you. Please pass the word to Andrew Gerus.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u62	Andrew Mikhailovich Gerus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u63	Sophia Romanovna, as I said before, I respect you and your good education. But I still doubt if I'm going to vote for you, so I have one more question. As you know, in 2016, in Ukraine, diesel was introduced by the Russian Federation, and this import was carried out by two politicians who were equally high-ranking officials at that time. Then came the evidence of the supply of coal from occupied areas that were still behind the Rotterdam Plus formula. But Victor Medvedchuk told the journalists at the court that these supplies were impossible without a higher political will, without a higher political direction. In your opinion, who could give this policy direction and what was the higher political will to buy coal in occupied areas in 2016-19? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. I'm also worried about the problem that today we have a catastrophic lack of coal and winter, and the heating season for "people of the people" has come out of the blue, and as a result, you and your colleagues are demanding that coal be purchased directly from the Moscow Federation and Belarus. And so we have empty natural gas reservoirs, which is the result of which is now under the collapse of the heating season. And now there's a huge trend that the leadership of the state on its knees will climb to Putin, to the Moscow Federation, surrendering Donbas, surrendering Crimea to pray at least a fraction of gas and electricity to survive the heating season. So it seems to me that instead of looking for a straw in someone’s eye, keep an eye on the log in your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u65	Yes, thank you. Time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, time for questioning is up. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. This takes up to 21 minutes, 3 minutes from each faction and group. Please sign up. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy, Urban Anatoly Igorovich, the MP's Party for the Future. You won't, will you? Thank you. Then let's move on. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Getmantsev, Mr. Alexanderovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u66	Thank you. Please pass the word to Sanchez Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u67	Please, Alexander Sanchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u68	Alexander Sanchenko, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear colleagues, I think it's obvious that Alexander Sergiyovich Korneyenka's candidate is the best in the position of First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, because he has that knowledge in local self-government. Because it's the First Deputy to the Supreme Council that puts the responsibility of communicating with local government authorities, and I think you, like me, know that most of his time he spends in regional travel, in communication with local governments. I am confident that this will allow us to represent their interests in a qualitative manner and that as the Supreme Council, we will take into account the request of local authorities to the Supreme Council. Alexander Sergiyovich also noted in his statement that he was planning to reform the Supreme Council. I don't know about you, I'm a little tired of having our voting buttons repaired when they're burning. The only change in the Supreme Council is the carpets in the corridors. The Supreme Council is very eager to reform. And I am convinced that the political will of our political leader, Alexander Sergiyevich Korneyenka, will suffice. So I call on all factions and groups to support Alexander Sergiyovich's candidacy for the post of Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u69	Thank you. The word is given to Alexander Sergiyyovich Koltunovich from the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u70	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I understand that without a rating vote, we understand the results and the finals of the procedure. But I would like to pay attention to the priorities that we would like to hear today. And maybe that's what you're doing next. Because in my opinion, by reshaping the Presidium, we actually have to propose a new course for the country's development for the next two years. Why two years? Because there are two years left before the end of the chamber. It is the Supreme Council that must form an appropriate institutional environment, a corresponding legislative and regulatory framework, in order to identify and overcome the negative trends that exist in the country today. The issue of resolving the conflict in Donbassa is question number one, which today is to worry the country and the leadership, and not only the countries, but also the Supreme Council. I hope that the new leadership of the Supreme Council will take these legislative initiatives into account, and the Supreme Council will vote on the very laws that are necessary for the implementation of the Steinmeier formula to implement certain provisions on special status, and what we have heard is even supported by the Deputy Secretary of State of the United States, Victoria Nuland. So I think that if we take such initiatives in the Supreme Council, the issue of peace will be settled. The second question is, of course, the issue of tariff policy, which also. We're going to get you quality new initiatives, legislative initiatives that will overcome the negative effects that we have today called "tariff genocide or tariff drowning." Also, the issue of overcoming the declines in population income. This is also a very important issue that needs to be taken into account in order, for example, to implement those legislative rules regarding the equalization of living minimum and minimum wage. In fact, this is a new legislative course that needs to be implemented in the next two years. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that, of course, it is foreign political and external economic. The external economic and external political order of the day, I apologize for the Russians, should also be based on the implementation of certain documents. Because these ratifications are ridiculous, the denunciations of the SND agreements, they are absolutely in no way conducive to economic and social uplifting in the country. We have to move away from this disgraceful practice when these decisions are finally made so that they can be voted on without discussion. And to conclude, I would like to say that you, Mr. future First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, have allowed in due course quite a negative statement regarding the closure of independent channels, regarding the publication of Country.ua, Shari. net and so on. We can't replace, the legislators, the question of the court and the decision of the court. We warn you from this to the future when you are already in office. And I mean, our faction won't support you. But we want to warn you about this in the future, because these things are inappropriate for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u71	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u72	Dear Ukrainians! In these days the world’s media is dedicated to Ukraine. And on the first plates, not only is there an offshore scandal involving Zelensky, but there is also very critical evidence that, unfortunately, Ukraine is returning very rapidly to the part of authoritarianism. What is a great concern today is the concentration of power in the hands of one person and one team. In these circumstances, Parliament plays an extremely important role in the last proponent of democracy. And it's not a paphos, it's true. And it is very important for Parliament to keep this balance. Therefore, in order for Parliament to remain a balance between the independence of the branches of power in Ukraine and not to transform Ukraine from the parliamentary-presidential to the office-presidential republic. It's very important that they be strong and real here, and that they're strong and real in the lobby. So don't be afraid of women in the Presidium, don't be afraid of opposition in the Presidium. You know, I listened very carefully to two speeches, and it was really two political cultures. By the way, Sofia Fedina listened very carefully to her competitor's speech, unlike him, who's been walking around the hall this whole time, ter, and showing that there's really no political new culture. We were told that Parliament should be governed by new policies, not old ones and new rules. So our team is very proud of Sophia Fedina, Jana Zinkevich, who are really demonstrating that they are news politicians who bring this country ideology, truth, principles and dignity. As an interned politician from our political team, I would like to thank our voters, who in turn give each of us a high mandate of trust, knowing that here we will defend principles, democracy, the path to the EU and NATO, regardless of whether we are in power or in opposition. And our team will definitely be in the next Supreme Council, unlike the one-time, one-day-old new faces that no one will even mention, including now your voters don't know them. You know, I listened very carefully yesterday, I think, and the whole of Ukraine, Mr. Zelensky's interview, where he talked a lot about how he sees the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- the addition of Banking, where he has to re-engage with the worries, where there should be no amendments, where there should be no democracy. As a positive example of the new speaker, he added that the new speaker had been vaccinated. Friends, Sofia Fedina is also vaccinated. And it's an additionally extremely positive moment to vote for her, because she's responsible, she's real, she's young, regardless of whether she's in power or opposition. Don't be afraid, even if you're a sexist faction, to vote for women, because that's the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u73	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Soboljevo Sergey Vladislavovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Association of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u74	Your Honor, Your Honor, I think. God forbid the vaccine isn't the key principle we put in these chairs to get us out of those programming rules, and more importantly, the actions that will be immediately after the election. This month, I think the spikeriads have taught many things to parliamentarians. And first of all, he taught how to live in Parliament for not having a chapter in the Rules on "The Rights of Opposition and the Rights of the Most" as unparadox. And I'm surprised, well, where would a candidate from most people start? We want to settle the key question: how should the majority work, whatever it is, the majority, or it's the majority of several factions. Undoubtedly, the most important question is how the opposition should work, and what rights in opposition and the introduction of bills that should be considered in the session room, rather than just being a brake on the committees. How to vote on certain issues so as not to violate the Rules. How do I make sure that at this rostrum when everyone's considered, I emphasize that every bill has a profile minister present, and there are several ministers in the bills that are relevant to the work of several ministries. By the way, as it was in practice in the work of various parliaments, and when we heard the voice of the government, it supported some of the bills. What is the position of the Ministry of Finance on bills requiring expenditure or possible income in the future budget? Sadly, we did not hear that either. That's why I think we need to draw conclusions from everything that happened before. The first, and key conclusion: how to organize Parliament's work in such a way that the order of the day that we get in the morning per week or every day is the order of the day that solves the challenges facing society. And first of all, the new challenge is the energy crisis. Look at the agenda, show me at least one question that will solve this most important problem that all the parliaments of the world and, for example, the European Parliament are currently fighting. That's why I'd like one. And speaking to the Head of the Supreme Council, I think it's a wish for someone who's going to be sitting in a chair next to you and how this person is going to work, and whether you're willing to endure two lovely women. I think that'll be the answer to the question, too. Mrs. Sofia, we support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u75	Please, Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u76	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we are concluding a discussion of an important issue and the right decision will be made, which concerns the systematic deep work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because the position of First Deputy provides, in our opinion, for the MP group "Trust", for the most part, for the organization of the overall activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the broad sense of the word. We remind you that this position is not a position of any godless person, it's one of us members of the Supreme Council, to whom people have entrusted the issue. So we immediately turn to the challengers: to maintain a democratic style, to communicate more often with our colleagues, and to identify the important issues that need to be addressed. I would also like to return to the events of a two - year - old age when the Supreme Council of the present - day vocation began to work. And in the list of the important reform tasks that they have put before me, I think I have been somewhat undercalculated, underestimated the importance of reforming the work of the Supreme Council, creating the conditions for amending the Rules. The thing is, it's an ancient subject that doesn't have to touch the Constitution, because it's a "holy cow" and its position is important to everyone, and it's essential to the Rules. But what I want to remind you is that in 2010, and this is what my colleagues talked about, the Rules deleted the whole sections that involved the work of opposition, creation and change in coalition activities. And today we can't even take into account the moments when both the Constitution and the Rules were created, and no one could account for the possibility of making tens of thousands of amendments to a bill and stopping or stopping the work of the Supreme Council for a month. And I can continue with a number of issues that need to be addressed urgently, so this is a task, including for the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In conclusion, I want to say that both candidates are certainly extremely worthy people, people are deep, with a high level of intelligence and education. But the "Trust" MP calls for less politicization, more pragmatic and practical work. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u77	Thank you. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich. And then, honourable colleagues, there'll be speeches from the national deputies and then we'll go to the vote. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in the case of the first vice-speaker, the phrase "the seat-place defines the point of view" will be just the right thing to do. I hope that no matter which candidate is elected today, it will become a candidate, and then the first vice-speaker of the entire Parliament. Which will guarantee rights as representatives of the coalition, opposition, non-fractional national MPs, with whom they have good relations, with whom they feel bad, whom they consider their enemies, and whom they ally, regardless of that, we will be given the rights of parliamentarians and us parliamentarians. I very much hope that the new position of the person who takes up this chair will give him more inspiration to ensure what is enshrined in the Constitution. That Ukraine is a parliamentary-presidential republic, not an office-parliamentary republic. And Parliament is neither a department nor a continuation of the President's Office, nor is it even a glove that can sometimes be wiped clean, but sometimes beat up on its opponents. I really hope we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u79	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Dear National Deputies! We have six more minutes from the National Deputies, so please sign up for the speech and then we'll move on to the voting procedure. Please sign up for the performances of the National Deputies. National Deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u80	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I believe that Alexander Sergiyovich will be a powerful foundation for the speaker and the entire Parliament and will fully implement the Rules and abide by the legitimacy of this Hall. Secondly, I would like to point out that no matter how many drafts our group has passed, virtually everyone has ignored. The first is the law of 2070 on the free economic zone of Donbas. If they took the free economic zone into Crimea, it would have to go somewhere to invest in that area and start developing businesses, giving jobs. So please consider Bill 2070, which was passed by Shahov, the High Priest, and Sukhov. Next. Bill 6064, developed by the experts of Our Land after the liberation, and allowed people to breathe free of energy and ban electricity, water and gas from debt to the population today. If they had money in the population, they would have paid for it. Today, people are on the verge of poverty, and 10 million people are starving in the country. And the third. I'm talking to Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenka. Return the constitutional right to 500. To the people in Donbas, Lugansk and Donetskina, return the right to vote in the communities in which this right was taken. Why did the elections take place in 2014 in Parliament and in the Presidential elections? Why were local councils elected in 2015? In 2019 Parliament and the President were elected. Why do people in these communities today not have the right to live and vote freely for those they want? Why are the heads of the military and civilian administrations looting billions of dollars? Why Are You Not Making Order Today? So we demand that we put people to vote in Severodonetsk, Lysichansk, in Happiness, in Gold, in Mountain, and so on, in Slaviansk. Thank you. I believe you will listen to our group and make the right legal decision. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u81	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, is invited to the floor, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u82	Thank you. Please give Nina Yuzanini the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u83	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! In fact, I was looking forward to this day because I felt that the new candidate for the first vice-speaker was about to talk about things that were unacceptable to us all here, and also to you, the honourable majority. It seems to me that breaking down all the politicians, all the institutions and the foundations of these institutions is your job. You said in your speech, you said you were going to put up with it. Please understand what you can bear. But will the State of Ukraine be able to perform its functions? I was very surprised by the question raised by one of the candidates, the chief candidate, raised by the majority. Tell me, please, are you going to modernize the procedures of the 1990s, and do you realize that most of these procedures allow Parliament to work? You said you'd start reforming the rules of procedure of the Supreme Council tomorrow. What do you think you can break everything and tomorrow you won't need a smart parliament at all? We're not needed here because you're perfecting as much as any other thing. I strongly support the opinion of my colleagues that we should look at the results of our work. You didn't see that, in 2.5 years, the laws passed, in their implementation, have a reverse effect -- exclusively negative for the state of Ukraine. There are rare cases where something really worked. I expected that in 2.5 years you would learn to appreciate your mistakes and correct them. But that didn't happen. And now the main candidate has shown that he has absolutely no understanding of what the work of the Supreme Council is based on. In 2.5 years, I didn't understand! How could this happen? Professionalism is the basis of our work. Professionalism, not the help of experts who will write for you or comment. You said there were some experts. So if you are unprofessional and unprofessional, where can you find these professionals? It seems to me that we are turning things upside down now that are the basis for our Parliament's work. So I'm afraid I'm referring to the candidate-in-chief. I don't think you've heard our candidate, Sophia Fedina, to the fullest extent. An independent woman who deserves attention, trust, respect for all of Ukraine, could be constructive and independent, equally hearing all the represented forces in Parliament. So, of course, I choose Sophia Fedina. And we will vote for her. And I call upon you all, who have the mind and the opportunity and the power of will and the courage to vote for Sophia Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, we're done here. Let's move on to the voting procedure. In accordance with Article 28 of the Rules, a rating vote is proposed. It is proposed to put candidates to the vote in alphabetical order. The result of the rating vote for the final decision will be a candidate who will receive the largest number of votes of support. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. The rating vote is submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Aleksandra Sergiyovich Korniyenka. Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:46:56]] For 248 Show the factions, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the nomination of the National Deputy of the country of Sofia, Romanovna Fedina, is now under way. Ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:47:24]] For-73 [[B in m in s a l in]] Show the factions, please. Dear National Deputies! According to the results of the rating vote, the highest number of votes was won by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenka. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 79 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure put to the vote the proposal to elect the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Alexander Sergiyovič Korniyenka, who relieved him of his duties as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters relating to the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and city building. Deputies! People's deputies, please vote. [[11:48:28]] For 256 Let's see the factions. Decision taken. I welcome Alexander Sergiyovich. I ask the Supreme Council apparatus to issue a ruling on the consequences of our decision. I ask the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take up his post at the presidency. [[Applause]] Motovlovec procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u86	In line with part two of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I propose that we make changes to the order of the day of our plenary work and work today until the conclusion of the day’s work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u87	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the offer to work today has been a fruitful one. Therefore, in accordance with part two of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, honourable national deputies propose to make changes to the order of our plenary work and to work today until the day’s affairs are completed. People's deputies please vote in favour of this proposal. [[11:50:13]] For 209 [[B in m in s a l in]] Show me the factions, please. Motovlover, please, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u88	It's a procedural decision. I ask you to put him to the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u89	Since this is a procedural issue, we can put it to the vote again. We've done this a number of times. In accordance with part two of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I propose to make changes to the agenda of our plenary today, to work until the conclusion of the agenda. People's deputies would like to support this proposal. Please vote. [[11:51:37]] For 228 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, we're moving on in the daytime. What? Disposal, yes. See, according to article 29 of the Rules, withdrawal should be supported by either two factions, or 150 national deputies. There's no signature in that paper you gave me. I'm going to go back, form it right, and then we'll look at it. Thank you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u91	In accordance with article 29, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council’s Rules, I make a remark to the presiding officer in connection with the gross violation of the Rules. It is impossible to vote for the second time on the question that has already been voted on, whether it is procedural or not. Once again, in accordance with article 29, part one, of the Rules, I make a note of the action of the presiding officer in connection with a violation of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have more. We're going in order. We have a draft Order to make changes to the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Dear colleagues, can I put this to a vote? Do you want to talk briefly? Please. Then let us perhaps discuss a reduced procedure if necessary. Write down: two in, two in, against, because the reduced procedure is automatically foreseen here. The word is given to Laby Mikhail Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u93	In respectable colleagues, there is another agony after the spikeriad. I suggest we get down to business and get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u94	The word is given to national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u95	Thank you very much. Similarly, let's not be technical questions, delay the adoption of important bills, just go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u96	Thank you, Jaroslav Romanovich. The word is given to Irina Volodymyr Heratchenko. Please, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u97	Dear Ukrainians, in the 16th year, I was also elected First Deputy to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I began my work in high office by saying that I refuse protection, becoming First Deputy, who was unguarded. Unfortunately, Mr. Stefanchuk has taken the guards, and Mr. Kornienko has now begun his work, not by removing himself from the protection, but from what he has grossly violated the Rules, when the first vote he has proposed in the Chamber as the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council was a vote, which is why you have been stuttering the previous Parliament for two and a half years. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to remind you that the spikeriad, where Parliament was involved, not "European Solidarity", which is the monotony that lasted, has been going on for the past week around how Razumkov severely violates the Rules, and around the fact that he did not put to the vote the order of the day session. So, now we're starting our work without the agenda of the day session, because yesterday it wasn't voted on. Next, every day we see that the majority are offering to continue our work until the order of the day is exhausted. And let me remind you, even though I'm not the first call in Parliament, I don't have sclerosis, which is why I started my lying activity as a majority. Since they changed the Rules, with which they reduced their work to 15 hours. Because we've been working all the previous calls until the 18th and we've made it. And now, every day, they're correcting what they're stressing. Imagine, soldiers in the army, they work from morning to evening, our military. Our teachers work from morning to evening. These have reduced their learning. I mean, the job is up to 15 hours, and now they're going on every day. That's your problem. And we're really tired of voting for you on your first day! That's why two factions now demand, "European solidarity" and "Voice," the disengagement of the gentleman.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u98	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavelek Jury Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u99	Please pass the word to Alexander Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u100	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, with all due respect, but now I see why you shot Dmitri Razumkov, who didn't put these things to the vote twice. That's the first one. The other one. In fact, make up your mind. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Energy Committee proposes to exclude the list of bills, including the five bills of our faction. You're not just adding to the bill right now, but you're also excluding it. And this is an extremely negative norm. Because, on the one hand, they tell us about opposition, and on the other hand, they exclude the laws of Rabinovich, the Royal and others from the agenda. This time. The other one. As to the subject that we have discussed today. Where is the proportional distribution of the list of bills according to the number, to the number of deputies from the total number of parliamentary groups? There is no proportional representation of the bill. It has to be reflected. And we're going to demand every plenary, the beginning of the plenary week, exactly the proportional distribution of these draft laws, and what's important is that we look at them in the plenary session. That's two. And third, last. But look at the subject of what you're proposing and what the challenges of time are today. When Ukrainian citizens in social services give their figures that between 70 and 80 percent of citizens don't share power, they don't divide the economic, social policy that's going on, it starts right here. So in my opinion, let's be at the beginning of the plenary week or at the end of this next look at what are the priorities in a society where we have a fall, what we need to support. And accordingly, these legal acts are to be submitted for the next plenary week. You can't vote for this order of days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please. Sergey Vladislavovich, a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u103	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, it was very bad for us to start working in Parliament. I have a motion to put to the vote the annulment of a previous decision that does not comply with the Rules. The other one. It's essentially a draft decision. We are surprised that, alongside the questions that were put into the agenda for the first time in two years, namely, the transfer of gas of its own production to the population of Ukraine (this is put into the agenda), at the same time three issues relating to Ukraine's energy security have been removed by decision of the relevant profiling committee. I'm surprised at the professional level of head of this profiling committee if, in the context of the energy crisis, the global, I emphasize, the energy crisis, it's proposed to remove three key laws that deal with energy and energy security. Please remove this from this draft decision as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I put to the vote a draft regulation amending the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (project registration number 5893-8). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:00:38]] For 249 Decision taken. We have a 12th, but for the announcement, I'm giving Olena Constantinen. Show the factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I have a brief announcement. Please, at the initiative of the Swiss Embassy on the first floor in the towers of the Supreme Council, there will be an exhibition now and a presentation of "Yes is the right to vote for women." Please join us all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a break from 12 to 12:30, and then we work according to our decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions: a break with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to John Ivanovich Krulk. Please, John Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u108	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to listen, especially to the leadership of the "Serve of the People" Party. This is going to be the election in 197 district, near Kiev, in Cherkaščina. These elections are run by two key candidates who are fighting for victory. This is Vladislav Doub, the most self-sacrifice candidate in the past. A professional person, a lawyer, just a parliamentarian who has to be exemplary and can be an exemplary parliamentarian. And the second is the representative of the factions, from the "Serve of the People" party, the mayor of Goldenfoot Vojciekhovsky. What kind of mayor is Zoldoshi Wojciekhowski? President Yanukovic is a member of the Party of Regions. President Petra Poroshenko is a member of the European Solidarity Council. President Zelenski is now a member of the Servant of the People. A person who has already been to every possible and impossible party. But that's not even the problem, because there's a lot of runners, we know that. The problem is what these choices look like and what they die of. Such an administrative resource, which is now in the 197th district, was not even dreamt of in the days of Yanukovich. Threatening budget members, requiring them to write an application for exemption so they can be loyal to a candidate from a failed party. We're seeing now that the security services are having preventive conversations with doctors, with educators, with budgeters, and it's just going through all the possibilities and impossible. The second moment, we've registered doubles. No one plans to fight a double who is registered deliberately to wash the votes of a candidate. Two of these doppelgangers were registered to Vladislav Dove, who are totally paid. And their goal is to do everything possible to get Vladislav Dove to get as few votes as possible. But the worst part is to bribe voters. That crazy car that's in the elections today in the golden district for the electorate bribe, I've never seen it before -- 5,000 bucks a vote. How much of this did it take to make such a frenzy of money available to the electorate? And I just want to say, don't turn this election into a joke, because the Ukrainians have already seen different choices. And those who fake the election then find no place in Ukraine. I call on the President of Ukraine to ensure an honest and transparent democratic electoral process and to show that Ukraine can be democratic over this power. As the Fatherland Party, we will seek fair elections and we will seek to win stronger, not bribes, money, intimidation or administrative resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u109	Thank you. The "European Solidarity" faction asked for the right to a replica. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, and then we go to the daytime issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, it is unfortunate that the last democratic elections in Ukraine took place under the Presidencies of Dustenka. And we fully support the position of all those who speak today of brutal forgeries in Cherchishka. "European Solidarity" does not support those who run from the party to the party, unfortunately, including Mr. Dove, who came out of our faction. "European Solidarity" is supported by Roman Bischenka. We put forward a candidate to represent an honest, just man who did not bow down when he was a prisoner of the political Kremlin, and he would certainly be worthy to represent Goldilocks, Canoes, Church. Roman Suschenko, who now has the highest support in the district and is a rival to the active authorities. Because unlike all the other candidates he has never been in politics, this is a real new face that will strengthen the presence of the people and the will of the people and become a strong and powerful support for "European Solidarity." We call on all the voters in this district to support Roman Suschenka, not the MPs who run from the party to the party.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, we're moving on. We have a whole series of draft decrees repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23.09.2021 on the adoption of a second reading and the draft Law on the Prevention of National Security, which is linked to the excessive influence of persons who have a significant economic or political weight in social life (oligarchs). These are project registration numbers: 5599-P, 5599-PI, 5599-P2, 5599-P3, 5599-P4, 5599-P5, 5599-P6, 5599-P7, 5599-P8, 5599-P9, 5599-P10 and 5599-P11. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 48 of Part Nine of the Rules, this issue is dealt with in the summary procedure and without a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the plenary session. Let us turn to this question. I give the floor to the author of the first decree, the national deputy of Ukraine, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u112	Dear Ukrainians! Ukraine, unfortunately, is a truly oligarchy state and unfortunately this Supreme Council, this convening, is demonstrating the worst examples of such service to the oligarchs. Note that no majority vote today has 226 votes without the green buttons of the oligarchic groups. And so it's obvious that our team that first introduced all anti-corruption structures created them, and created this legislation, we're in favour of real, not fair, delligarchy. Where, in fact, the Antimonopoly Committee, as it is in all countries of the world, as well as the anti-corruption structures that are working in Ukraine today, in particular NAZK, are NABA and others. What do we have today? Unfortunately, it's the law that passed here, the bill, Mr. Zelensky, it doesn't fight oligarchs, it reinforces oligarchs, because the main thing under this law is the PNB, which today has already changed the structures of law enforcement and the judicial system. And we can see that all of the PNBs can wear T-shirts, very fashionable among the "ministers of the people," it's this corporate outfit they already have, "I have the right to make a mistake." They include 108 thieves in the law on lists, and they exclude them for labels. Now they want to do the same thing with so-called oligarchs: you know, turn someone on, then exclude someone who needs someone. And we don't think there's going to be any people in these lists who pay off the "servants" envelopes for loyalty. But we now demand that this bill be voted on, because it was primarily adopted with very serious violations of the law. For the first time in this room, since January 16, 2014, the opposition’s mouth has been shut down. We were not given the right to present any of our amendments, although you and the oligarchic groups had votes. Today, this law has mutually exclusive positions, and that's why, in fact, if you don't want it after you've finished yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the author of the next decision – the national deputy of Ukraine, Honcharenko Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u114	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, we're looking at, you know, in the classic "95th Quarter" style: call something one name, call it "people's servant" and become masters. So here: they called the Deligarchy Act, they made the Usurpation Act. They didn't protect the rights, they broke the Rules. It's all clear, there's nothing new, we've talked about this with you over and over again. But I want to draw your attention to something else. We are asked to give the authority to compile such a register and its work to the Council of National Security and Defence. Friends, this is the same RNBO that Danielov admitted last week, making decisions on criminal authority, made, my friends, 108 mistakes. Not one, not two, friends, 108 mistakes. So if you make two mistakes, they won't take you to the university, and if you do 108, please go to the National Security and Defence Council. And these people want to make up some more lists. But they can't write their last name, they're not completely capable of doing basic things. I invite you, members of the RNB and her head, Vladimir Zelensky. Come to one of the 19 "Honcharenko Centres" throughout the country where you are taught Ukrainian so that you are not mistaken; they will provide you with a course of guidance so that you can finally understand that you are not in your place, find your real inspiration, what you need to do in your life; financial literacy, not just to count the money they give in envelopes, but in fact how to form budgets so that the country lives normally; foreign languages, so that you can not run away, but be able to talk to international partners. These are the things you're easy to teach there. And my determination is to support, and the usurpation law in Ukraine is not to pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u115	There's a right to a replica mentioned by the "Serial of the People" faction. Gettmans Danilo Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u116	Thank you, Your Honor. I will take advantage of the right to reply because the name of our political power has come to light. And I want to warn my colleague that we will continue to exercise our right to a replica, not to do so as before, to remain silent. What is it now that is being considered in the hall? The same anti-oligartic law continues to be considered, which breaks the actual structure of the oligaric economy created in our country for 30 years. And look at the fierce opposition: 12 deviation decrees. Absolutely groundless decisions to go to the rostrum, report something there, and drag on for a day, a week of signing this important law. And the opposition of the oligarchic factions to this decision is the best evidence that it is correct and timely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u117	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni, the author of the next decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, you violated the Rules when this law was approved. This is not the first time. You just picked up an estaphet chopstick from Janukovic, who violated it here. Parliament broke the Rules on 16 January 2014. You imitate this law, you continue to imitate the reform of the country, because you've simulated the impeachment law, which is impossible to send anyone into impeachment. You have mocked the Law on the so-called referendum of the peoples of the country when the people cannot perform their duties at all and declare a referendum. And you keep doing that. You have violated the Constitution by enacting this law because you are proposing non-constitutional powers to the President of Ukraine and granting judicial and penal functions to the National Security and Defence Council in violation of the Constitution. The law does not fight oligarchs. The law does not fight the oligaric system. Because it's the law that wrong oligarchs should be replaced by right oligarchs loyal to power, which you no longer recognize as oligarchs under this law. You want to do this by law what you did in Russia, namely, you want to redistribute the media that will respond favorably to you. Colleagues, yes, I agree, we need to beat the oligarchic hydra, but the oligarchic hydra and her spine don't break because of the lie, the open lie that you deceive people, and the osmosis. And the oligarchy is broken by antitrust legislation, deregulation, anti-corruption bodies, tax and customs reform -- that's what you don't want to do. And you just want to keep trying and not tell people, don't brag that this law is actually another step towards dictatorship and autocracy in Ukraine. There's still time to get ready. There is still time to reject your vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u119	The word is given to the author of an alternative decision, the national deputy of Ukraine to the Principality of Mikola Leonidovich. Please, Mikola Leonidovich. It doesn't, does it? Okay. Next. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, the author of an alternative decision by Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u120	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, European Solidarity. Dear colleagues, indeed, the law that we are considering, which has been passed, has nothing to do with fighting the oligarchs. Instead, the majority supported the oligarchus when they cheated on Ukrnafti’s debts by covering their fight against the oligarchs. Covering up the fight against the oligarchs, the majority supported the oligarus Firthash by cheating debts. With the support of oligar Pinchuk, they supported the import of electricity from Belarus and Russia, where it supplies this electricity through its companies. And by covering up the fight against the oligarchs, the majority voted in favour of these laws, where billions just signed off and allowed billions of people to engage in electricity from the aggressor country. I'm going to say that in fighting the oligarchs, Zelensky just signed these laws. Hence, there is nothing to do with fighting the oligarchs in that law. The real role of the majority is to support the oligarchs. You do everything you can to meet their needs. So I ask everyone to support my determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u121	The next author of the decision is the National Deputy of Ukraine Sinyutka Oleg Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u122	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! "European Solidarity" has always been consistent in the fight against oligarchs. And it was during the leadership of the Fifth President, Peter Dustenk, that the oligarchs were impoverished and the oligarchs lost their wealth and influence on the leadership of the state. And what do we have today? We have the Fair Law on the Oligarchs, which is actually a part of the story of the lie, both Zelensky and his team. Because the Oligarchs Act is the same lie in fighting oligarchs and promises to cut tariffs twice as much as promises to vaccinate Ukrainians and talk about the fact that today's government team is not involved in money laundering. But it is important today to understand that the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament, which are controlled by the oligarchs, voted in favour of this law. Would they have done something to the detriment of their masters? Of course not. But why does the authorities then fight so hard for this law? And it's very simple because you want to use this law even more to usurp power. You want to put the opposition under control, you want to put the media under control. But more than that, you're doing this in violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, in violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules. You want to create an encavedic trinity with an RNB that's going to be self-accepting and judging. And you've shown how you can do that when 108 people were crowned and so easily excluded from the ranks, from the list of "ministers of the people." I urge you to correct your mistake today, because voting is a personal matter. And remember, you can go around the world lyingly, but you will not go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u123	Who's it gonna be? The "minister of the people" was mentioned. Who's going to be the replica? Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that today we are witnessing the historic attempt of the oligarhat to oppose the adoption of the law against oligarchs. We have seen two political powers represented in this Parliament, which say they are antagonistic, seriously obstructing the adoption of this law. We see all the media belonging to the oligarchs staining this law. We see political representatives in Parliament who control the oligarchs resisting the approval of this law. And so this bill that we're looking at today, about lifting the voting results, is exactly right, is definitely for the benefit of Ukrainian society, and it's definitely for the detriment of the Ukrainian oligarchate. The "Serial of the People" political party, along with the President of Ukraine, are consistent in the fight against the oligarchs. Therefore, there are no orders to abolish the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u125	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Vátrovitch Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the great Ukrainian named Bogdan Gavrilishin. Today, we are celebrating the Day of Human Responsibility, the celebration that we have instituted with you. "Speak truth, be honest, actions in accordance with moral, ethical principles. Do not restrict the rights of others in the pursuit of the realization of your rights." These words in the Declaration of Human Responsibility on Dignity. Dignity is why the Ukrainians went to the revolution that Greens wants to drown. To wash away billions of oligarchs in offshore lands, to live to see a portrait on the Guardian shelf among the world’s most corrupt politicians. To betray Ukraine by confiscating the operation of the Wagnerians. Use the infinite power to crush friends and persecute opponents. The standards of the so - called Oligarch Act, according to the conclusion of the Kharkiv Law Protection Group, are contrary to the Constitution and international human rights standards. And targeted at a large number of people who do not have a negative impact on social life and also on censorship and provoke, I quote, a new round of persecution of political opponents, chaos and lawlessness. End of quote. The consideration of the project is accompanied by the same chaos and lawlessness, a gross violation of the Rules, which in some cases hinders the majority. You're building your regime on a lie and you want to announce the opposition politicians as oligarchus and tomorrow as divers or enemies of the people. But "putinism" in Ukraine will not pass, and you will be responsible for your actions before the people and the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u127	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Friz Irina Vasilovni, the author of the alternative decree. Dear colleagues, I ask you to release the passages so that the interviewees can easily reach the rostrums. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to address the Ukrainians today. Dear Ukrainians, what is actually happening today is a testimony to the final murder of parliamentaryism. Because the main purpose of this so - called antioligartic law is to try to change the form of government in Ukraine. The very change in the form of government is the main purpose of this so - called antioligartic law. Because Greensky was supposed to have a majority in Parliament. He was supposed to have his own, his own, his own pocket, his own prosecutor. But he was going to have a totally different Kabmin, which he keeps changing at the expense of rotations like a shoemaker. Green needs all of Ukraine. And for that he passed the law as a guarantor of the Constitution, violating the Constitution. I have some bad news for you. By killing Parliamentarianism, Zelensky is trying to cement his government for years. That's why he's talking about a second term. That's why he's lying and trying to trick Ukrainians about tariffs, about food prices, about medicine, about teachers' wages, and so on. By killing Parliamentarianism, Zelenski achieves a key goal – authoritarian government in Ukraine. That's why we're talking about, not the issue of regulations, but the question of laws is going on in this session room. Ladies and gentlemen, I request you not to become accomplices to the crime that took place on September 23rd in the walls of this House under the leadership of this presiding officer. Because by becoming an accomplice to this crime, you will be complicit in the murder of parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u129	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich, the author of the alternative decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, you know, there is such a Ukrainian proverb: I call many, but the truth is few. This is exactly what this bill is about, with only one amendment -- there is no truth here at all. Please note that all the statements in support of this bill contain anything: emotions, accusations, any reference to anything, but not one – the contents of this bill and the analysis of what is there, what mechanisms there, and how it will be applied. And it's not an accident. Because that's just to increase the lie, increase the hype, increase the emotion, and that's how you create the necessary picture, because it has nothing to do with fighting the oligarchy bill, and that's the mechanism for compiling political accounts. And you know what, dear colleagues, the people of Ukraine quite rightly appreciate it. More than half of those polled accept this project, as one aimed at political struggle rather than overcoming the oligarchy, for polling public opinion. Why people think that way is understandable. When they see that the money that was taken from Private Bank by the oligarch of Colomoy is found in the Offshore of Zelensky and several other government officials, they draw their conclusions. When people see that Colomoysky then has absolute immunity from that authority, they conclude that it is not the Anti-Oligarchy Act, it's the Law on Hanging Labels. But what I'm saying is that this is not going to help those who are promoting this bill, it's not going to help President Green to establish a dictatorship, because the dictators in Ukraine are ending very badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u131	The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Sumar Victoria Petrovni, author of the alternative decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I want to thank you for this request to release the passageways for us. Because this Parliament began its work by sending all the opposition there, under the balconies and onto the gallery. Then we were told that Parliament was not a place for discussion. Well, in principle, there's bad news for you, too, because in fact, Parliament from the word "parle," it's about to talk. I understand that we're annoyed by our decisions here, but you know, we're going to do this because you didn't let us stand for any of your changes that weren't spam, they were just 100. But you just put, forgive, on our rights to sound these changes and did what you wanted to do, so you're going to have to listen today. You know, this is deligarization -- I understand it's the new season of the show. At first it was "Serve of the People." Well, I guess it would be fairer to say "offshore servant," because "people's servant," with these corsets, with government houses, with all this, it doesn't really fit into the logic of the service of the people. But when this show blew up. It's not the name of the faction now, it's actually the title of the show, but I'd be happy if you took the replica. So when this show blows up, we need a new show, a new series on how green Robin is going to punish rich guys, a series called "deoligarization." What I want to say about that. You know, the people didn't say the key to punishment. No one's gonna take money from rich guys, like Robin Goode did, and they're gonna have TV channels. And that's the key. Because the TV channels have either to praise Robin, or, if you'll excuse me, they'll just be taken away, they'll just be taken away. If that's what you want, boys and girls, to fight the oligarchs, I think it's good to start by taking the centrnergo and the Ukrnaftu from Cologne. Instead, you vote with the oligarchic groups, you take taxes, you raise taxes to farmers, and you take them to agrobarons and agroligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u133	The word is given to the author of an alternative bill to the Ukrainian National MP, Ionova Maria Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u134	Honorable colleagues, respected Ukrainians, the rush with which authorities enforce the law on the so - called fight against oligarchs is very surprising because only crimes are committed with such haste. And if the bill really meant to end the power of the oligarchs, it would be in principle another text that would be drafted by all the political forces. It wasn't Parliament's decision, it was Zelensky's decision, and the opposition factions couldn't hear or defend their amendments. Among them, there were many professional and good ones, and they were intended to prevent the usurpation of the Bank’s authorities, but the deputies were removed from the possibility of discussion. The end of the era of parliamentaryism. I remember, as obediently in this room, the Communists and the Communists voted on the sad laws of January 16. Where are they now? Think about it. The European Solidarity faction supports the fight against oligarchs that threaten our nation's national security. At present, however, Zelensky himself, who is constantly lying, is a threat to such national security. Because if he wanted to fight the oligarchs, he would. It would be enough to continue that full judicial reform, which was initiated during the period of Prague 2016-2017, to strengthen the role of the Antimonopoly Committee and NAMC, and to ensure justice in this country. But instead, he started breaking the Supreme Court of Ukraine, he eliminated and blocked the judiciary for two years. Indeed, this law creates a mechanism for controlling all media, and this is the process of building dictatorship. He wants to get his partner and friend out of there because Pandora Papers has already been investigated. Based on the name of the law, Zelensky's ratings are being stabilized. Green on the lie came, on the lie, and he'll go.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u135	The word is given to the author of the extreme decision – the national deputy of Ukraine Vasil Ivanovich Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u136	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". With regard to the bill that we have passed, we have decided to review the bill, which has been adopted, not in haste, as they say, but as a non-constitutional instrument. Dear colleagues, let's go back to whether we have Parliamentarianism at all after we have little room to vote on this bill. I'm sorry, about the Head, he was in charge of this process, so I want to let you know that there's no constitutional framework in which he doesn't fit. Let's see why, today, we've left aside the Opposition Platform for Life Bill (4422), which is about what we need to come to the middle manufacturer and what we need to do with them, in the middle of business, so that people can understand how they care about them. The other one. Were you not eyewitnesses when there was a bill on the altar for a referendum on the people's initiative? You've successfully knocked him down. And what do we have? Where is the word of the people? On the contrary, you have forgotten the question that the decision is taken by the owner, and the basis of our authority is the people. And the last. I would like to say that what I see in the actions in which this law was adopted, and the actions to protect the ideology that is being carried out in our country today, is a totalitarian system of governance and dictatorship, to which, unfortunately, ours is going.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u137	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. I invite a co-rapporteur, under all these regulations, to chair the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u138	The Honorary Presidium, honourable national deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its session reviewed draft decrees repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23 September of this year on the adoption of a second reading and the whole of the National Security Risk Prevention Act relating to the excessive influence of persons with significant economic or political importance in social life (Oligarchs) (registration number of Law 5599). Draft decrees have been made by the Ukrainian National Deputies Heraszczenko, Goncharenko, Klimpush-Cincadze, Knežicki, Bondar, Sinyutrič, Frez, Pavlenko, Sumar, Ionov, Germany and Zagradni. These draft decrees propose to annul the relevant decision of Parliament, since, according to the vast majority of the drafters, this law was adopted in violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, including articles 34, 45, 117 and 120. In summary, the regulatory committee adopted conclusions on all draft regulations whose registration numbers were placed on board, and the regulatory committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be determined by a vote on the adoption or rejection of these draft regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Since this issue is being considered by a reduced procedure, please register: two in favour, two in favour, and two in favour of discussing these regulations. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u140	Please, the word of Jaroslav the Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u141	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! I remember 26 days ago, from this rostrum, all of you, especially members of the coalition, were urged to do one simple thing. Wait three hours, listen to the orders that your fellow national MPs wanted to raise, let them both accept from the opposition, and accept normally, without violating the Rules, the Law of Ukraine. Remember, the Law that you call oligarchs, we call pierre oligarchs, but accept it correctly, the procedure. Then what happened? You went to the faction, went out and went after what's called special procedures. I'm sorry. Why is that so sad? Because I wouldn't want that to happen in the Ukrainian Parliament. You passed the law not only by breaking procedures but also by making a lot of mistakes. You can tell anything you want, but there are really three versions of article number 5. You can say as much as you want to say that you've changed something on the transcript. But no, the revisions were read according to the numbers that read them and the errors were no longer corrected. And even 131 articles will not allow you to correct what was adopted with a violation of the law. Once again, you wanted to shorten three hours, you got 26 days. Neither I nor you nor any other Ukrainian citizen or even experts know that the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in the end. Now, I ask you very much: don't frame your colleagues, don't put in a profile committee, don't put in a new presidency of the Ukrainian Parliament -- don't ask them to sign a forged text. Send the error text, and you may want to reverse the vote by supporting the rulings, voting, but at least make sure that your law is adopted in accordance with the Rules and without error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u143	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vátrovitch Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u144	Please give the word to Sophia Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u145	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u146	Soon it will be exactly two years ago, as Maruse Zviroby and I told Zelenski that they were shooting at the front. He violated a criminal case by frightening those words and then telling them that we were lying and that we were at peace in advance. At that time, we wondered how we could lie so openly. But this turns out to be a general trend, because the Zelensky authorities, their coming to power, were based on lies. Lies about the Golebeard, lies about honesty, justice, corsets, houses, bills, property abroad, competitors, lies, and about yourself. But the question is, what if the lie comes out, as it turns out from Pandora Papers, where Greensky's name is next to the world's biggest corrupters? This requires that all journalists be taken and shut up, as was the case with a close friend of Zelenski Metzger. To do this, it turns out that you have to take total control of the television channel, which is part of the bill to fight the so-called oligarchs. So nobody has the right to tell Greensky what he's doing illegally when he's hand-dealing someone off the list. So in this case, this bill is an outright lie and an imitation of the fight against corruption. In fact, no one is fighting the oligarchs with this bill, but Zelensky is just trying to usurp the power completely. So I'm going to say that "European Solidarity" is calling for support to the Cancellation Order and finally to step up those mechanisms of state power that will actually help fight the oligarhat and illegal money-laundering. But I think we should start with Mr. Zelensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u147	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Poturayev Mikiti Ruslanović, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u148	Please give the word to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u149	Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! What is the bill that our political opponents are trying to reverse? Regarding the prevention of threats to national security associated with the excessive influence of persons of significant economic or political importance. What are these simple words, colleagues? Simply put, those who are oligarchs who control the media, who control some of the political forces represented in this Parliament, cannot have the ability to influence the process either in politics or in the economy that ensure the looting and further enrichment of Ukraine's citizens. What are we watching? We see very unique things. 12 motions for the annulment of voting results. I would like to remind you that the only case in the Ukrainian Parliament for this call, when 12 more decrees were registered, is the bill on the introduction of the land market. What we are seeing is an example of how the oligarchs, through their deputies, try to put sticks in wheels in the adoption of a very important law for Ukrainian citizens. What do we see in the media field, dear colleagues? In the media field, we see TV channels, newspapers, magazines owned by oligarchs, trying to resist the approval of this law and trying to discredit it in every way. What is it? We're opening up one of the online resources today, and we're seeing an economic expert say that the fight against oligarhat is due to the destruction of economic freedom. In other words, the oligarchs are the wages of freedom in Ukraine. It's pretty hard to hear more nonsense. Therefore, our political power has consistently stood up for the fight against the oligarchs. And our political force, the "Serial of the People" Party, will vote against all orders for annulment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u151	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Sergiyyovich Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u152	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Coltunovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." We're going to support all those decisions because, for example, when there was a consideration of the draft law, for example, I was addressing the chairman with 22 amendments, and article 119 of the Rules does not conflict with my insistence on them. Many of my colleagues ignored my initiative. Today, we have legislative reasons for considering these decisions. This time. The other one. When you talk about the essence of documents, it's funny to listen. Because, look, when you talk about the economic effect of such documents, you have to show that: (a) 12 percent in our country of monopoly, 16 percent in oligopolies, and 25 percent in mono-dominated companies. If it's a living and working document, you have to give predictive parameters how they change, how we're going to reduce from 12 to 2 percent of the monopoly, and so on. This is one moment. One second. 4122 Bills (by Medvedchuk, Koltunović) were filed more than a year ago, relating to deligarchylation, demonopolization. And this document has to be considered by the Economic Committee, and it's on it. We even have a professional subcommittee headed by Mrs. Buymister, who deals with antimonopoly politics and so on. So from this point of view, when we're talking about demonopolization, you should have suggested at least what we did -- decreases, instruments to reduce the concentration of the monopoly position on the market. This inhibits economic development and the involvement of foreign direct investment. These were supposed to be economic categories, not what you proposed. You've given anti-constitutional standards. Our lawyers, among other things, concluded: Article 6 is violated, 8, 19, 22, 24, 32, 41 and 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution. I still don't recall legislation that violates so many of the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine in one law. It's a disgraceful law, and we need to vote on these regulations in order to abolish anti-constitutional norms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u153	The word is given to the national deputy Krulk Ivan Ivanovich. Anyone else want to come out? If not, then we shall proceed to the vote. Please, John Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u154	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to refer to the authors of the vast majority of the decrees on this bill. We will vote in favour of these rulings as the Fatherland faction, because the Rules and Procedures are far more important than any political preference. The same is true of procedures in the 197th district of Cherkaščina, where there is total bribery, where elections are broken, where people are intimidated (educators, medics). Here's what we're talking about. And in such a case, when democracy breaks down, democracy needs to be united to protect it. We know Mr. Suszczenko, a politician, a wonderful man. But the 3-4 percent he's going to get there is going to be interest against democracy, not for it. That is why it is very important for us all to unite in order to maintain it in the 197th district. And just as we will now support your rulings under this bill, so support democracy in 197 districts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, we have completed the discussion of all 12 decrees. I would like to remind you that the committee recommended that a room be defined for the drafts of all these regulations by voting. So, with your permission, I'm putting each of these orders to the vote. I would like to vote on the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23.09.2021 on the adoption of a second reading and the draft Law on the Prevention of National Security involving the excessive influence of persons with significant economic or political importance in social life (Oligarchs). It's about Decree 5599 of Ukrainian National Deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:24:52]] For-67 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the next decision by the People's Deputy, Mr. Goncharenko Alexiyovich. The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23 September 2021 on the adoption of a second reading and the draft Law on the Prevention of National Security involving the excessive influence of persons with significant economic or political importance in social life (Oligarchs). This is Decree No. 5599-P1. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:25:40]] For-73 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the next decision of the authorship of the Ukrainian national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna (registration number 5599-P2). The name is identical: the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23.09.2021 on the adoption of a second reading and the whole draft Law on the Prevention of National Security in relation to the excessive influence of persons with significant economic or political importance in social life (oligarchs). This is Regulation 5599-P2. Please vote. [[13:26:29]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next Order by the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Nikola Leonidovich 5599-P3, a similar name. Please vote. [[13:26:59]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the next decision on the authorship of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, registration number Order 5599-P4. Name: The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23.09.2021 on the adoption of a second reading and the draft Law on the Prevention of National Security in relation to the Excessive Influence of Persons with Significant Economic or Political Weight in Social Life (Oligarchs). Order number, project Regulation 5599-P4. I'm not gonna tell her again. [[13:27:44]] For-74. The decision is not taken. The following is the ruling of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Synthetic Republic, Oleg Mihajlovich (registration number of Decree 5599-P5). This is a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23.09.2021 on the adoption of a second reading and the draft Law on the Prevention of National Security involving the excessive influence of persons with significant economic or political importance in social life (Oligarchs). Number Set 559-P5. Please vote. [[13:28:25]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Next order of the Ukrainian national deputy Vátrovič Volodymyr Mihajlovich, number 559-P6. Name Order: draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23 September 2021 on the adoption of a second reading and the whole draft Law on the Prevention of National Security, relating to the excessive influence of persons with significant economic or political importance in social life (oligarch). Number Set, I'll remind you again, 5599-P6. Please vote. [[13:29:09]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Next decision of Ukrainian National Deputy Friz Irina Vasilovna, number 5599-P7. This is a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23.09.2021 on the adoption of a second reading and the draft Law on the Prevention of National Security involving the excessive influence of persons with significant economic or political importance in social life (Oligarchs). Number Position 5599-P7. Please vote. [[13:29:49]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Next decision of the Ukrainian national deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich, project number Rule 5599-P8. This is a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23.09.2021 on the adoption of a second reading and the draft Law on the Prevention of National Security involving the excessive influence of persons with significant economic or political importance in social life (Oligarchs). Project number Order 5599-P8. Please vote. [[13:30:32]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Next decision of National Deputy Sumar (Regulation 5599-P9). The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23 September 2021 on the adoption of a second reading and the draft Law on the Prevention of National Security involving the excessive influence of persons with significant economic or political importance in social life (Oligarchs). Please vote. [[13:31:17]] For-74. The decision is not taken. The decision of the Ukrainian national deputy of Ion's Maria Mikolayovna, registration number Order 5599-P10. Name: Project Cancellation of Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. P10, I said yes. The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23 September 2021 on the adoption of a second reading and the draft Law on the Prevention of National Security involving the excessive influence of persons with significant economic or political importance in social life (Oligarchs). Once again, project number Set 5599-P10. Please vote. [[13:32:09]] For-74. The decision is not taken. And the extreme in this stunt of determination. This is the draft decree of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Germany, Vasil Ivanovich, registration number 5599-P11. This is a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23.09.2021 on adoption in second reading and in general as the law of Ukraine of the draft Ukrainian law on the prevention of national security threats related to the excessive influence of persons with significant economic or political importance in social life (oligarch). Project number Order 5599-P11. Please vote. [[13:32:59]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the blocking decrees have been removed. Let's move on. The next issue is Bill 5459-1 (second reading). I invite the chairman of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee, Radin Anastasia Olegovna, to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, will someone insist on repairs? Let's go to the table, all right. 5 repairs, Osadchuk. Don't insist. 7th, Sukhov. Don't insist. Eight o'clock, Kovalov. Don't insist. 12th, Mama. Are you insisting? Gregory Mikolaiovich, of course, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u156	Dear National Deputies! And in fact, this is an example of a fast-track consideration of the Supreme Council Bills. It was necessary to recall the first reading where the short term was applied by the Supreme Council by its vote, and it did not take six months before the bill appeared in the Hall. My rights speak of vision, and with my permission I make suggestions to the article, precisely that the National Bureau is formed and is carrying out its activities in accordance with this law. At present, unfortunately, this amendment is excluded from the second reading and is written about the fact that the National Bureau is formed and carrying out its activities in accordance with this law, and those standards are listed, those that may continue to serve in order to define this law above other laws. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u157	I'm betting on the vote for the 12th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:26]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 15th, Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u158	Amendment 15, it's rejected by the committee, but it says that the Cabinet of Ministers will have a special procedure or special status within the framework of the work of the Central Executive Authority in relation to an authority such as the National Bureau of Ukraine. I still want to compare and say that if the organs have, as the central authority of executive power, authority, they have identical powers, and we have white or gray or black organs. In fact, I propose this right to add that there is no special bill, the specificities of this bill on NABU, and the comparisons and definitions to all central and executive authorities. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u159	I'm betting on a vote of 15 amendments to the People's Deputy Mamka. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:00]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 16, Bilozer. Don't insist. 17th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 19th, Vlasenko. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u160	Thank you, Mr. Head. When you were still a candidate for office and today a candidate for the First Deputy, you told a lot about how you would comply with the Rules. I would like to remind you that the comparative table only appeared yesterday at 18 p.m. after the bill. I want to remind you that according to the rules of the Rules, the table appears in 10 days. It's not a simple norm that's designed by someone, it's a norm that's designed to allow MPs to work out this bill normally. I'm going to fix it without spam, I'm going to work out a bill and make it better, or I'm going to change some ideological stuff. Unfortunately, you're not giving this to us by breaking the Rules, I'm underlining that. As far as this bill is concerned, seven years ago the NABU Act was passed, six and a half years ago the Head of NABU was elected, by the way, with the help of international experts. This director of the NABU has been introduced into the register of corruptionists today. IT IS the one selected by international experts. Do you want to hit the same rakes again? You want to make the corruption manager of the NAB again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u161	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. I'm voting on Amendment 19. The committee proposes to reject it. Please vote. [[13:38:48]] For-55 The decision is not made, unfortunately. Let's move on. Next amendment 21, Mama. Are you insisting? Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u162	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to support my amendment, because what the committee is proposing is completely stupid. Why is that stupid? Imagine, then, two laws that an elder plays that are more important than one law or another. We give the law that, notice, in the case of a colossal conflict between the Law on NAMA and other laws, the better Law on NABA. Can I ask you a question? What difference does it make, then, what better thing? We need to compare. Listen, the Constitution is also the law. So, the Law on NABA can also be determined by law that it is better than the Constitution of Ukraine? That's an honest word. It is necessary to take into account and give the law authority that is identical to that of all central executive authorities. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u163	Yes, of course. I'll bet your 21th amendment, National MP Mama. The committee is proposing that it be rejected, so I ask you to vote. [[13:40:20]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Puzichuk 23rd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u164	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. But Amendment 22.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u165	Excuse me, 22nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u166	Colleagues, this amendment applies to guidelines for the organization of NABU activities. If you want to give the NAB the status of the central executive body, its activities should be organized accordingly and subordinated to the executive system. That is how the Constitution defines it. With regard to the prohibition of interference in the investigation of specific criminal cases, such a prohibition must be compulsory — that is, the guarantee of the independence of the NAB. Colleagues, listen, the amendment refers to the fact that NABS are truly independent. And this is my amendment, please put to the vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u167	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote the 22nd amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[13:41:45]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 27, Slavicka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u168	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I have many rights, I will not insist on many of them. You know, despite the fact that this bill contains in its title that it conforms to the Constitution. In fact, the draft prepared for second reading contains a bunch of regulations that conflict with the Constitution. Either way, the fate of this law, if it's approved, will be the same as the previous one -- many of its positions will be declared unconstitutional by those you approve. And one of them, it's actually about trying to get the N.A.U.U.A. to be the executing authority. This is enshrined in the Constitution, despite the direct norm of the Constitution, we're cleaning it up. As this generally affects the seemingly independence of the NAB, it is not understood at all. So I ask you to put this amendment to the vote and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u169	I'm betting on the vote for the 27th amendment, the national deputy of Slavsky. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote. [[13:43:16]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 31. Grigory Mikolaiovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. Sergey Volodymyrovich, it's taken into account editorially. Do you want it to be complete? Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich, 30th and then Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I reiterate that, according to the Rules, we do not have the authority to consider this bill today, but by violating the Rules you continue to consider. As far as this bill is concerned. I agree with colleagues who say that this bill contains a series of norms that clearly violate the Ukrainian Constitution rather than bring this law into line with the Constitution. In particular, once again, we have six and a half years of NABU. Has it proved its effectiveness? Do we have a loud case where the bulwarks are held accountable? Do we have judgments? Yesterday, the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court closed the case on the former minister of infrastructure, showing the quality of the work of the NAB. In fact, what is now being proposed is being suggested not to change anything, to leave as it is, and to get a completely unconstitutional law, an inadequacy and non-professional body called the NABU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u171	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, 30 amendments, were taken into account by the committee editorially. The author, however, insists on taking full account. So I'm making an offer from the author. Please vote. [[13:45:07]] For-50 The amendment remains with the committee. 31st, Grigori Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u172	Dear national MPs, Ukrainian people! Here they spoke, spoke to the people’s deputies, and spoke about the oligarch Law. It was only forgotten that the President had said that the oligarchs law would support and raise the economy, and that Schmigal, Prime Minister of Ukraine, said that this law had nothing to do with the economy. Sadly, though, we have not heard such words. I would like to draw attention to what the committee is proposing so that the position on the activities of NABA can determine and confirm the NABA itself. I have a question. Or will they write something else down? No, it's not. The committee proposes to write down paragraph six: "the exercise of other powers defined by this law." What's "other powers"? I suggest with my permission, "The position on the National Bureau is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers." Let the Cabinet of Ministers determine the policy of the development of the NAB. Please consider the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u173	I'm betting on the 31st amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[13:46:44]] For-49 The decision is not taken. The following amendment 35. Grigory Mikolaiovich, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u174	Dear National Deputies! There's someone here who might say there's something in the table. I'll take the chart when she's out. What is missing or missing is a ten - day table for national MPs to read, not so stupid, to vote without. With this amendment, the committee suggests, on its own, that acts. We don't approve the position by the Kabmin, we don't approve, we do this position by the NABU. And the acts that the U.S.A. will take will not be subject to the justice of the Ministry of Justice. I'm sorry, we have a royal law enforcement authority with specialized powers: he writes himself, he goes to bed, he accepts himself, he does himself. And the results are going to draw for themselves? Well, in the end, let's put in some kind of legal regulator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u175	I'm betting on the 35th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee is proposing that it be rejected, so I ask you to vote. [[13:48:19]] For-49 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 37. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u176	Thank you, colleagues. In fact, once again, the law itself is completely contrary to the Constitution. But this 37 amendment is a vivid illustration of the "ruscavite law school" of the authors who prepared this bill. It turns out that the legal acts of the National Bureau have been effective since their official publication. I mean, roughly, five o'clock at night was published, but it's been active since 12 o'clock. It's such a slumber law school we have, you know. This is such a vivid example of ignorance in the preparation of legislation in the area of turbulence. But once again, this is just a bright technical moment, but the law itself is ideologically wrong. If you're talking about NABU being the central authority of the executive authority, it must be the central authority of the executive authority with all the capabilities and powers, but also responsibility and control. NABI independence does not mean that it is not subordinate to anyone. The Federal Bureau of Investigation is a structural part of the U.S. Department of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u177	Committee position, briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u178	Colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment. And in fact, the Constitution of Ukraine part four of article 94 expressly stipulates that the law may take effect no earlier than the day of its publication. Therefore, this rule in the first reading and in the Committee's edition corresponds to the Constitution of Ukraine, and your amendment is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u179	I'm betting on the vote of 37 amendments to the People's Deputies of Vlasenka and Kabachenko. The committee proposes to reject it. Please vote. [[13:50:23]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 39. National MP Mamka Grigori Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u180	Dear national MPs, that's the law, and there's a little bit of law, but they should be a little bit more equal. That's what we're talking about. The failure to enforce the legal acts that he adopts is already printing the NABU itself, accepting the legislation itself, accepting it when it is published, entering into force. There's a story here. My paper says that there are problems in all the legal acts, but in the case of the Attorney General's Office, we've already run into things that haven't been settled, and no one can find them by now. The request to include an application for compulsory legal review, a state registration, so that the citizens of Ukraine, who have mentioned the Constitution here, have the right to disclose and see all the normative acts on the basis of which such acts are carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u181	I'm betting on a vote of 39th Amendment to the People's Deputy of Mama Grigori Mikolaiovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[13:52:01]] For-79 Decision taken. The next amendment is 42. Puzichuk, don't insist. Are you insisting? Puziczuk, please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u182	Dear Chairman, I propose amendments to 42, 46, 50, 58 put together for the vote and I have three minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u183	Please give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u184	42, 46, 50, 58. And three minutes to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u185	Please, time is coming. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u186	Thank you. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, you are now trying to write every provision of this law into a completely inappropriate framework. Read the conclusion of the General Legal Office, where on the first page they note that it is proposed to recognize NAB as the central authority of the executive branch with special status. However, it should be noted that the existence of such an executive body in a State mechanism does not fully comply with the relevant provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine. This is what our colleague Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko pointed out. This continues to grow like a snowball with acts. As an example, the acts of the NAB. If this is a normative act, it should be registered with the Ministry of Justice. Moreover, there is a general order for such acts to be published. It is either yes or no, or it is necessary to bring other legislation into line. And what you're now saying about the conflict in Ukrainian legislation is that you're once again adopting a bill that violates the Constitution that will actually lead to the fact that the NAB will not work and its work will be blocked. And in the long run, this law will be recognized as not in conformity with the Ukrainian Constitution. So please support my correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u187	That's why I'm betting. Should we put them on, Andrew? Yeah, okay. I'll take it in order, as you asked. I'll bet 42 Puzichuk's amendment. She's been rejected by the committee. Please vote. [[13:54:35]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next, 46 Puzichuk's correction. The committee's dismissed. Please vote. [[13:54:55]] For-73 The decision is not taken. 50 Correction of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee is also dismissed. Please vote. [[13:55:18]] For-53 The decision is not taken. And the extreme correction of Puzichuk 58. The committee's dismissed. Also, please identify and vote. [[13:55:41]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Let's move on in order. 44th. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u188	43 Cabachenka's license, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u189	43rd, I've got it written, correcting, unfortunately, the late Polekov. 44th, Vlasenko, Kabachenko. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u190	Thank you, Mr. Head. Once again, I want to say one thing, the authors of this bill have gone the wrong way. The independence of the law enforcement authority is not achieved by the law enforcement authority’s uncontrolled control. So independent and uncontrollable are two different things. I understand the head of the committee who is now standing in the rostrum, who has nothing to answer. Which, unfortunately, reflects, not the Ukrainian position on this issue, but some position on the outside. We'll talk about this a little bit later. But once again, the Federal Bureau of Investigation of the United States is a division of the Ministry of Justice, but it's an entirely independent body that can even investigate an active president of the country. Independence is not achieved by uncontrolledness. Uncontrollableness breeds uncontrolledness and chaos. If the NABU is the central authority of the executive authority, it must be the central authority of the executive authority, coordinated by the Kabmin, and confirmed by the Kabmin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u191	I'm betting on the 44th amendment of the People's Deputy Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote. [[13:57:35]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 48, Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u192	Kabachenko Volodymyr, Fatherland. Colleagues, I've just read the news from today since October 18th. According to these news reports, the NABU has brought responsibility to six ministers. Let's think about it. Under this bill, the next chapter of the NAB will be chosen by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is a collegiate body. That is, in the future, potential ministers, who will be called to account by NAB, will choose the same head of NAB. What kind of independence can we talk to you about as an organ? And I want to ask the drafters. Do you not see this as a direct conflict of interest, to put it mildly? If we want to make an independent anti-corruption body with you, we still have to go back to the concept of when an independent anti-corruption body is to be established primarily by the Constitution of Ukraine. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u193	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u194	Thank you very much. The committee rejected your amendment. It's not about what you're talking about, it's about publishing legislation on the NAB. Basically. Colleagues, there is no bearing on the NAB’s acquisition of the status of the central executive body with special status. Members of the Cabinet of Ministers do not assign the head of NABA to their discretion. In order for this process to be independent, depoliticized, independent experts will work on the competition committee. In line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, it is they who will play a key role in the adoption of decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u195	I'm betting on a vote of 48 amendments to the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote. [[13:59:48]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 53. Kabachenko. Are you insisting? Please, 53rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u196	This is exactly what the draft text states -- about the dependence of the head of the NAB on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to the bill, the competition commission has no effect on the final choice but on who will lead the anti-corruption office of Ukraine. The competition commission, which consists of representatives of international organizations, only selects three candidates, who are then sent to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And it is the Cabinet of Ministers who, by its decisive vote, elects the only candidate to be the head of the NAB. So first of all, let us read the text of the bill again very carefully, and let us be very sober. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u197	I'm betting on a vote of 53 amendments to the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote. [[14:01:19]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 57th, Makarov. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? Oh, we made a deal. People's MP Makarov three minutes in lieu of his amendments, please. Oleg Anatolyevich, please. Give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, I want to say that the law is necessary, it is not possible to adopt it, because then in constitutional architecture we will get one organ that can't work and there will be no legislative basis for the work of such an organ. At the same time, I want to point out how we can't adopt such important laws. I want to mark the flaws in the adoption of such important laws. This also applies to the laws of the Bureau of Economic Security, Law 5599, the so - called Oligarch Act, the laws relating to the so - called judicial reform. Note how such laws are being enacted. At first, the author’s team submits the law for adoption in the first reading. We're voting on him. He goes back to the committee for second reading, the deputies make their amendments. Next, including the drafters of the bill, are amending the second reading in fact the law in the new edition. All key articles are presented in a new edition. And all the amendments that other deputies make don't really matter because they have a majority. Some time later, after the deadline for the amendment is over, maybe a month later, the copyright team starts to realize that they've resubmitted the wrong edition that they want to accept, and then they're taking, as in this case, the so-called committee changes. They may be the best for the bill. I know that a very long time before these amendments were made by the committee head, and I really did some titanium work. But we actually have a third draft of the bill at the committee meeting. And all the amendments made by other deputies, as well as all the work done in preparing for the second reading, are actually pointless, unnecessary. And I understand that in such a situation the quality of the bill is lost, the value of the MP's work on the bill is lost. Then the head of the largest faction in the talk show calls the law adopted in the first reading by a black man who doesn't need attention. You can't do that. So I'm convinced that all of the bills that are being passed, especially the most important ones, need to be presented in the form that you are responsible for, which you recommend to accept as a whole. And the joint legislative work of all MPs can only improve the work of this bill, make it more quality and lead to it working more qualitatively. And you don't have to veto later, as was the case with Bill 3711, after three editions of the President's veto, they got it. We will vote in favour of this bill in spite of its way.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u199	Thank you, Oleg Anatolyovich. I don't make any adjustments, then, do I? Next, 55th. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u200	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, it seems that the drafters of this bill see themselves as future leaders of the NABU. How do you explain that really, here, colleagues have already talked about an article that doesn't have to register the legal instruments that sign up for the NABU leadership? Dear colleagues, for those of you who don't understand this, I explain that under the laws and regulations of the NABU's leadership, it is understood: the position that everything is confirmed by the application of special means and so on; the rules for going outside the State into shipping; the orders, the orders. If they do not register in Minsk to verify that these normative acts correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, to our international agreements, including human rights, it will be legal nihilism and fraud. You can't miss things like that. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u201	I'm betting on the 55th amendment of the people's representative of Cimbaluk. The committee suggests that it be rejected, so please identify and vote. 55 amendments, please. [[14:06:24]] For-83 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 63. Puzichuk. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u202	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman! Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. My colleagues, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the conclusion of the General Legal Office, which states that the draft does not comply with the Constitution and the legal positions of the Constitutional Court. If you include NAB in the system of executives, it will be extended to the relevant laws governing the activities of the central executive authorities. When it comes to the independence of the NAB, it is unlikely that it will contribute to the subordination of the NABU to the executive vertical. In accordance with article 16 of the Law on Central Executive Authorities, the activities of the central executive authorities are directed and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine through the relevant ministers according to legislation. You want to make NABU the central authority of executive power. Then how can he independently and impartially investigate corruption in your government? Please support my amendment. Thank you. And the committee head's comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u203	I'm betting on the 63th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote. [[14:08:04]] For-72 Correction rejected. 64th. Will you insist? You won't. Okay, thanks. Next 66, Mama. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u204	Dear National Deputies! This law is really unique because we give authority to the central executive authority, not to the Cabinet of Ministers, but to the central executive authority. The first is to make a position for yourself. The second is that we authorize, notice, the director of NABU to create, reorganize and eliminate the territorial offices of the National Bureau, in accordance with this law. What am I proposing? The situation is confirmed by Kabmin, authorized to reorganize, and decommissioned by the territorial authorities. Why not?? We realize that we've legally approved their wages, that they don't have to do them anymore, they just get paid. Then, where Kabmin is going to take the money to get rid of and increase that special composition.?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u205	I'm betting on a vote of 66 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote. [[14:09:46]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Puzichuk. Don't insist. Are you insisting? 67th. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u206	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 74th, 76th. Yeah, that's why the next one's mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u207	All right, let's keep going then so I don't get confused. Thank you. Then we have 71. Radina. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Cymbaluk, 72nd. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich. 72nd. Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u208	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The 72 amendments relate to the mandates of the Cabinet of Ministers to release and appoint a director of the NABU. We think it would be more appropriate to leave the norm that works, that two thirds of the Supreme Council have the right to initiate and vote for the release of the Head of the NAB. And you're suggesting that it's just two thirds of the Cabinet of Ministers can vote, initiate, decide to release the head of the National Bureau. Excuse me, if Kabmin has such a right, as my previous colleagues have said, how can they, as a national, independent anti-corruption body, take control of Minfin, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the officials of the first category, when they are dependent on appointment and release? Dear colleagues, the current norm is more perfect, but it is clearly necessary to change the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u209	I'm betting on a vote of 72 amendments to the people's representative of Cimbaluk. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[14:11:51]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next 74th. Puzichuk. 74th, 76th you want right away? One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u210	Ruslan Alexiyovich, two minutes and we're voting right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u211	Okay. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u212	Thank you. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Colleagues, you point out that the purpose of this bill is to guarantee the independence of the NABU. Maybe when you wrote it, you got it wrong, and that's the NABA Dependence Bill? Explain, please, and would you like to hear a comment from the chairman of the committee, how do you achieve the goal of independence by subjugating the government? How can NABU freely and impartially investigate crimes against high-level owners in executive power if the government can at any time release the director of the NAB? It's about the NABU director's dependence on the government. Now only the Supreme Council can do this at the suggestion of at least a third of the national deputies from its constitutional composition. And you want to lower the level of responsibility when you make this decision, take away Parliament's ability to control the activities of NABA. These are completely different things: an open, transparent, democratic parliamentary procedure and an unpublished, maximized procedure for government decision-making. And I ask you to put my amendment, if you really, and support it, you support the independence of the plague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u213	A brief committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u214	First. Neither the President of Ukraine nor the Supreme Council of Ukraine have the authority to appoint or release the director of the NABU, according to the position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Period. The other one. In fact, you're telling the truth, unfortunately, when you say that under this bill, Kabmin can release the director of the NAB at any time. No, the bill clearly stipulates under which circumstances the Cabinet of Ministers may adopt such decisions. Examples of these are: a court’s finding ineffective or a negative conclusion based on the results of the NAB audit. Other guarantees of NAB independence are also okay with the text of the bill: there are prohibitions on giving instructions, there are prohibitions on interfering with personnel policies, there are prohibitions on interfering with pre-trial investigations. Once again, all the necessary guarantees of independence of the NAB are provided by the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u215	Then I make two adjustments. I bet 74 the amendment of the Puzijczuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:14:46]] For-44 The decision is not taken. And then the 76th Puzichuk amendment. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:15:06]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Next amendment 79. National MP Mamka Grigori Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u216	What kind of decision do you refer to in the Constitutional Court? About what did the Supreme Council commit last year to enacting a law by the end of the year? Are you talking about that decision? It is necessary to speak and enforce the decision of the court, not to speak of it from the rostrum. Dear National Deputies! The decision to adopt the Cabinet for two-thirds is for the only body in Ukraine all inclusive (all included). The decision of the Cabinet is taken by a majority of votes. Period. The law is one for all. Well, this same article allows the director of the NABA to be seven years old again. We talked in the hall. How much can you do? Let's put it in forever and let it do its job. My paper says give me five years. Make a body that will fight corruption with everyone and vote exactly as it does when it comes to making decisions, not as if it were a white crow. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u217	I'm betting on the 79th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:16:42]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Next amendment 90. Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u218	Dear Ukrainian people! I've already focused on the decision of the Constitutional Court, and the rapporteur says we had another decision of the Venice Commission on this bill. Well, there's no decision by the Venice Commission. If you have it, let me read it, or I haven't found it. I'm afraid so, or fortunately. My editorial says that everyone was talking about (and here, including in the hall) that let's make the basis for the release of the director of NABU, so that there are no such cases as being drawn to administrative responsibility, there's no grounds for dismissal and, with such a function, in the register of corrupters, to run an organ that fights corruption. Oh, my God! We say let's make some changes. For the future, we regulate the law so that there is no such nonsense. Where did we get it? No, it's not. Once again, we don't include the grounds. My editorial says, let's include the grounds for all of this regarding the release of the Head of the NAB. A corrupter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u219	I'm betting on the 90th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:18:24]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 92. Kabachenko. Are you insisting? Please, Vladimir Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u220	Kabachenko Volodymyr, Fatherland. Colleagues, first moment, one more time. The text of the bill states that the only body that appoints the head of the NABU is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That's a fact, and that's a fact we can't discuss with you right now. Second, even more important. Do you believe that a person who has committed an administrative offence involving corruption can lead the NAB? This amendment provides that if the administrative responsibility for corruption - related administrative offences is attracted, the director of the NAB will be released from office. I want to talk to the reporter. Why did the committee decide to reject this amendment? After all, the NABI’s chief, he cannot in any way discredit the status of the anticorruption body of Ukraine. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u221	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u222	The committee rejected the amendment. I want to remind you, colleagues, that there are many crimes involving corruption. For example, in connection with corruption, the application of a declaration is two hours later than it should have been filed. Is that why you have to get fired? We have reason to believe that a court must determine the extent of the punishment and the prohibition to hold positions. If a court is ordered to prohibit certain positions, the person concerned will be dismissed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u223	I'm betting on the 92th amendment of the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:20:30.]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Puzichuk, 93rd. Don't insist. Thank you. Yes, 95th, Mother Grigory Mikolayovich. Do you insist or insist? You insist. Sure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, we have, indeed, two hours later -- no responsibility. The average official filed for two hours, for 20 minutes, he failed to submit a declaration of criminal responsibility. Question: "What difference does it make?" Look, you have to say things by your own names and call them. For example, the basis for exemption is the conclusion of an audit of an international independent. There are no auditors so far, year six. There isn't! Are we still waiting for them? But there's a negative conclusion from the Court of Auditors that's been put under a dress and kept secret. Something like this is happening. But on the basis of the negative conclusion of the Court of Auditors, the State body provided for in the Constitution, it simply does not exist. Let's be honest and honest now, let's put those reasons, not under your little thing, but under the new head of the NAB.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u225	I'm betting on the 95th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:22:12]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Jurchisin. You insist, don't you? Please, 96 revisions, Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u226	I have a request. I have 5 unacceptable amendments: 96, 183, 217, 303, 310. I'm asking for two minutes and I won't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u227	Give me two minutes. Give me two minutes, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u228	Jaroslav Jurchisin, “Justice. ” In fact, there are a lot of myths about a bill that is actually adequate and needs support. First. We're correcting what the Constitutional Court has called attention to, that is, giving us a status where really certain administrative functions will have the Cabinet of Ministers. But there will be no discretion in who to appoint, release and so forth, because the law prescribes an adequate mechanism for an independent commission. The other one. They tell us that there are no jobs in the NAB that are to be commended. On the right of Furdick, head of the Lviv Arch, deputy of several exclamation points, the person who actually owned the woods, eight years' arrest, all right. Cases against MPs. Cases against nine heads of state - owned enterprises The big question is, aren't those who've taken advantage of these businesses trying to block this bill right now? Yes, there are discussion standards. In particular, it is now up to some colleagues to decide that we only need to be audited by the NABU, not by the Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Although this is nonsense, even the prosecutor’s office needs to be independently audited. These are international standards. But we have a very important question ahead of us. In April, we have to have a new director of NABU so that the old wolf won't hang that we suddenly have the structure stopped working. My rights were aimed at reducing government discretion, ensuring the continuity of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, but in a constructive format. Now I'm not going to insist on them, but I'm just going to ask those colleagues who have nothing to hide from the NABU to take off their rights and go to the polls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u229	Thank you. Next, the 99th Amendment. National MP Mamka Grigori Mikolaiovich. You're gonna stand up, aren't you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u230	Well, then, I can't change my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u231	It's beautiful.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u232	My edit says about the competition I tried to make with my edit to get him started. Why did you run? Because the committee suggests three members from Kabmin and three from international organizations that have provided international assistance over the past two years. I'm sorry, me and the D.B.I. Are we on? Already, all those who have provided us with international assistance have not been able to allocate candidates to the competition commission for two years. What, then, is the difference between the D.B.I. and the N.A.U.U.? Nothing. Your functions, your options? But the choice of manager. I'm just saying, let's give Kabmin the authority, let's have six members on the board of directors. And let them determine: international partners that give for 2 years, 3 years, 4 years. Let Kabmin make the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u233	I'm betting on the 99th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote. [[14:26:14]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Next 106. Puzichuk. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Okay. Next up, 110th. Vlasenko. Are you insisting? Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u234	Mr. Head, I have 13 amendments. I'm asking for six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u235	Please, yes, Sergey Volodymyrovich. I think that's right. Please give me six minutes. And you shoot, you don't insist. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u236	Thank you, Mr. Head. You see, they've all gone somewhere. Well, because even in the Criminal Code it's allowed to take a break every two hours. But about the bill. In fact, you know, I have such a rainy, total rain. I remember the 14th year when the same flaming so-called activists stood on the stand. There were flaming so-called activists who said, let's adopt this law, and there will be no corruption in the country. This law was passed to them. What, did we have less corruption in the railways, in Ukrzalznice? Have we seen a decline in the multibillion - dollar corruption in Naftogaza? Or have we seen a decline in corruption in the Crucifixion? Or were the leaders of these vast national monopolies called upon by the NAB to be responsible, after six and a half years of the existence of the NAB? We were given the example of an Oreste Furditch. They said he was the head of the hoax. He was the head of a fraud 20 years ago. 20 years ago! Today, he was called to account. There are no further examples of the work of this body. Why? Because, in fact, this body was originally created wrongly, as pointed out by the Constitutional Court. Now we're being tried under the terms of what we're doing in the Constitutional Court, we're being offered an obvious abracadabra, another abracadabra, which has nothing to do with state building, no relation to the central authorities of executive power, no relation to the fight against corruption. And in fact, I don't want to vanquish, but in just two, three, four years on the Supreme Council stand the same public activist, and he'll continue to talk. They were already standing on the stand, saying, you know, we're too small, we need to create an even higher anti-corruption court and then. For two years, there has been an Anticorruption Court. Show me the verdicts on loud anti-corruption issues. You'll mention Furdy again. Think of Furdy. Once again, he was the head of the Lviv Arch 20 years ago. Is that ball corruption? It's that multibillion-dollar hardware in the railroad, is that that multibillion-billion-dollar equipment in Naftogaz? Is that a multibillion-dollar piece of equipment in Crucifixion? Is that multibillion-dollar equipment in the ministries and offices of today? No! No! No, unfortunately, we don't have a system to fight corruption. We were offered a completely wrong thesis. The two of us offered us the wrong ones. We were told first, come on. The panacea is to create new organs. But they created new anti - corruption bodies. They've been made. What has been the decline in the fight against corruption? No, the heads of the village council are called to account for the administrative or criminal responsibility of delaying a declaration for 20 minutes. This is the kind of thing we have in billions. And there is no real fight against corruption. Again, who went to work at the NABU? IN THE NABU, officials of the prosecutor’s office, then police officers, and now the police. And what does it mean that they're going to start fighting in a different way than how they fought, in the ranks of the prosecutor's office or the M.E.S.? No, it's not. Unfortunately, instead of a real reform of the law enforcement system, we are offered new bubbles that have nothing to do with the Constitution or anything. Once again, we are asked to transfer another law enforcement body under the control of international experts, once again the crucial role of international experts in this matter. But I want to remind you. The Venice Commission was mentioned here again. I would like to remind you that in its numerous conclusions, the Venice Commission clearly says that this is an encroachment on state sovereignty, and how an exception could be considered is the participation of international experts for a short period of time. What are they offering us? We're being offered nothing, we're being told: eight years from now, let's adopt a law that might cancel the participation of international experts. Once again, we are asked to finance all these operations, not at the expense of the state budget, but at the expense of the so - called international technical assistance. So the state's functions are provided, not by state budget money, but by international technical assistance. We're told, you know, the key purpose of this bill is to depoliticize the activities of the NAB. On the contrary, you are handing over the NAB, essentially under the control of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which today represents one political power. This is a total politicization of the activities of NAMA. I would like to emphasize once again that we have been proposed by international experts by the NAB's current head of staff, and we already have this experience. By the way, the acting or former director of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office was also offered by international experts, whom all the same activists criticized and said that it should be filmed, but the law did not provide a basis for the removal of the head of the SAP, except for his personal statement. So he was touched and he wrote a statement. But once again, are these governmental mechanisms of approach to the functioning of the law enforcement system, not creating an independent body as the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the United States, but creating an organ that is out of control, beyond any kind of monitoring, beyond any control of Ukrainian citizens and Ukrainian state institutions? It's not independence, it's uncontrolled. Two years from now, we will review this law again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u237	Thank you. Let's move on. The next amendment is 118. Puzichuk. Don't insist. Makarov has already reported. 136 revisions. Slavic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, this is the last amendment I will insist on voting, even though I have many. What I'd like to say. We're proposing this model of assignment, the release of the director of NABU, where the majority of voting rights will be given by so-called foreign experts. And this is referred to as sort of independence in making a decision. We can discuss how constitutional it is for foreigners to run government, not citizens. Nevertheless, the law does prescribe that these experts are assisted by some helpers. And what kind of helpers they have there, who these people are, is nowhere in the law. But you and I understand very well that experts don't know our language or our legislation. And it is these unknown assistants whose legal status is not defined in the law and who will form the expert's opinion, who will lobby for any candidate or vice versa. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u239	I'm betting on the 136th amendment of the Slavicki People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:34:48]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. Here we go, next amendment. Krasov, Minko doesn't insist. Puzichuk doesn't insist. 142nd. Kabachenko. Don't insist. Is he insisting? 142nd. Cabachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u240	Kabachenko Volodymyr, Fatherland. We're going back to the text of the bill. The first fact is that only the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine appoints the head of the NABU. The second is also the fact that if the head of the NAB has committed an administrative, any administrative offence related to corruption, he must be released immediately. Any one. If we don't like this wording, I agree with my colleagues, we need to change the other text of the Ukrainian law. And the third. Returning directly to the substance of this amendment, the amendment preserves parity in the competition commission regarding its presence in both the persons proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine directly and at the offer of development partners. So if we can't imagine our lives without representatives of international technical assistance, let's at least guarantee the balance of representatives from both the Ukrainian side and international technical assistance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u241	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 142, amendment to the Cabachenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote. [[14:36:36]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. Dubinsky's next amendment. Fraud. Radina. Radina doesn't insist, does she? 147th. Puzichuk. Don't insist. Frolow. Stealth. Ustinov doesn't insist, does he? He was. Puzichuk doesn't insist. Vlasenko, Dubinsky, Tkachenko do not insist. Krasov, Sukhov, Dubnov, Kovalov. 165th, Puziychuk. Don't insist. 169th, Frolow. Don't insist. 170, Frolow. 171, Puzichuk. 175th, Stefanchuk. I don't insist. 176th, Sukhov. 177th. Don't insist. Puzichuk, Krasov. Jurchisin reported. Dubnov, Sukhov, Puzichuk do not insist. Krasov, Frolov, Sukhov, Minko, Dubnov. 201st, Makarov. Puziczuk, Dubnov. Now, I'm gonna get to 337. Until 208. 209th. Don't insist. 224th. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u242	Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law empowers the director of the NABU to determine for himself, and I pay attention to the undetermined number of substitutes. Okay, if there's 10 of them. What if there's 100? No limit. Who's going to pay them for this, the Cabinet of Ministers, who doesn't approve? I have an amendment that tells me about ordinary things that apply to all law enforcement agencies, this is a central executive body and other law enforcement agencies, that the quantity that is now defined in the law is defined. Well, isn't the order enough to run? Do we need people to investigate the resonance associated with corruption? My bill suggests that we rule out 100 deputy directors of the NAB.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u243	I'm betting on the 224th amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee proposes to reject it. Please vote. [[14:39:38]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 235. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u244	Amendment 235 speaks of one reason. Notice, for six years there is no audit, the Supreme Council has failed to appoint independent auditors who could conduct audits and initiate or release, or leave as Director of the NAB. If there are no audiences under these conditions and there are no audiences under this law, or there will be engagements, which are assigned by the Cabinet, there is another reason why we can include the conclusion of the Court of Auditors. Which at present, we know he's gone. We know it's classified, it's convenient for someone. But people need to know what happens in the organs for which they pay a lot of money for work. My editorial says that the conclusion of the Court of Auditors sets out a procedure for people to see and be the basis for the disgraceful work of the Head of the NAB for liberation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u245	I'm betting on a vote of 235 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[14:41:23]] For-56 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 268. Gregory Mikolaiovich, yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u246	My amendment tells me about the commission's credentials, which will conduct an evaluation of the work that candidates are assigned to. Once again, we come to the conclusion that a part of the commission will be formed and based on international partners. What is an international partner who has been helping for two years? He doesn't know the language or know the language. It is not oriented to the end in the legislation on which this law enforcement body operates. He doesn't understand what the result is. By now, six years from now, when you look at the findings or statements of the NABA leaders, we had prevented billions of dollars from being stolen. What Is Prevented? Is this the stage of the attack? Finished or not? So where is the responsibility for these things? And so they're already screaming.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote 268 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote. [[14:43:08]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. Next amendment 276. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, note how the media discusses the Council of Public Controls at the NABU. These criteria must be for everyone who goes to work. First, he has to say what he wants to do; (b) how he wants to do it; (c) what is the term needed. Someone promised to end the war, someone in two weeks, someone to finish, and it's not going to end. So that's how you work on the public council at the NABU. My set criteria are very simple. If you've worked in the NABU before, there's nothing to go on for the last five years. If he worked for two years in the civil service, there is nothing to do. And those positions, like all the other positions that I'm proposing for Kabmin to approve, were criteria. Well, it is impossible to have the authority of the director of the NAB, to take all positions and to manage the body itself. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u249	I'm betting on a vote of 276 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[14:44:48]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 286. Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u250	Dear National Deputies! We have already stressed that the decision of the Cabinet is taken by a majority of its votes. The director of the NAB will both appoint and release the Cabinet of Ministers, not quite a leader like the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Well, what's the difference between the law enforcement authorities and the central executive authority is we understand. The authority to take down one of the law enforcement agencies is different in this law with regard to the director of the NABU. The other one. Withdrawal from office, decision-making. Two-thirds is a decision made by the Cabinet of Ministers. But there's no indication of who's there, of what amount. There's no specificization. That's why the Cabinet of Ministers makes the right decisions, by analogy with others, most of the votes. It is necessary to leave the work of the Cabinet of Ministers here and not to tarnish its work in the interests of one body.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u251	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. I'm putting to the vote 286 amendments to the People's Deputy Mamka. The committee suggests that it be rejected, so please identify and vote. [[14:46:38]] For-56 The decision is not taken. And as far as I can tell, the correction that's going to be taken into account is 321. National MP. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Not yet. Okay. What's that? 302. Let me see. I'm sorry, there's 302. Grigory Mikolaiovich, I'm sorry. 302nd. Fuck. Then you will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u252	You all want to fool the opposition. That's the table you didn't give me, so now you're waving. Dear National Deputies! Let's think about that story. But we have to understand that after the Constitutional Court's decision, this law, which they say is not in order, is creating a new body, which is going to be the organ of the central executive power. So let's reload as the State Bureau of Investigation, define the criteria, take this story into parliamentary control and make an organ that will actually work. My editorial says that since the entry into force of this law, it will be impossible for the executives, the deputies, to appoint a new leader, to hold a competition, and to make an active body to fight corruption, not corruption, not to lie to society, to show real results, not to steal money from the budget, and everything else. Please put my order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u253	I'm betting on a vote of 302 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee rejected her, so please vote. [[14:48:42]] For-48 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, I'm sorry, yes, I missed it, 306. Honcharenko, please, Alexeiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u254	Mr. Chairman, I have a request, I have two 306s and 312s, give me two minutes, and we can not even vote after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u255	Please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u256	Thank you. Dear friends, I've submitted two amendments that are rejected, which are actually very simple and predict one thing. Two years later, as head of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the director of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Ukraine had been on the national list of corrupters by decisions of the Ukrainian court and two institutions. Two years have passed when the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau is a corrupt, and nothing happens, no one takes it down, no questions asked. Repeatedly, he proposed that not someone but the first deputy, Mr. Chapter, should be appointed director of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau, since it had happened that the director of the corruption director. By the way, I want to remind you that Mr. Sitnik himself is very nervous about all of this and reacts very nervously. Because after I first picked it up in the Supreme Council two years ago, they immediately came to my deputy's television company. And we can see that they're very nervous about all of this and they don't want to hear the truth. But we will still tell the truth and the truth is very simple. The truth tells us that Mr. Sitnik is a corrupter, he is in the national register of corruptionists in Ukraine, and he is acting as Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and that the active authority has been absolutely in place for two years and nothing has been done to change this shameful situation completely. I very much hope that in the future there will never be such a thing in Ukraine, and indeed the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which is an extremely important institution, will be led by people with an impeccable reputation. And neither in Zelensky, how he wants to influence it, choose his handiwork director, nor will anyone else. By the way, I'd like to refer to the disgrace that's taking place with the selection of the Attorney General of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, and that's what makes it an active authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u257	Yes, as I understand it, it is now exactly the extreme amendment that will be applied. Is it not? We'll ask for confirmation later, yes. I invite you to introduce 321 amendments to the People's Deputy Mamku Grigori Mikolaiovich. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, I have now come to understand why in the law we have determined that this law is something more equal and better than everyone else in the machine. Because my application to the Transitional Regulations to oblige the Cabinet of Ministers, first of all, to ensure the adoption of the legal and regulatory acts provided for by this law, takes time to bring its legislation into line with this law. They should. Why do we break through our knees the procedure that is, that exists, that will determine both work and position, and everything else? Please put my amendment to the vote and still make changes and oblige the Cabinet of Ministers. If that's not the case, will Sitnik also regulate these bills? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u259	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u260	Gregory Mikolaiovich, the committee rejected your amendment because you're proposing to bring the acts into line within two months, and we're editing the first reading and finalizing what should be done in a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u261	Dear colleagues, is there a need to put up? Grigory Mikolayovich, let's put it on, shall we? Is that not necessary? Let's put it on. I'm betting on the vote 321 amendment of the People's Deputy Mama Grigori Mikolaiovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. 321 repairs. [[14:53:05]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we passed the bill. Now, I know there's going to be some more amendments that will apply to confirmation, right? First. Yeah, who's gonna bet on confirmation? Grigory Mikolaiovich, how many amendments are there to confirm? Three. Name the numbers, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u262	236, 265 and 298.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u263	298. Let's start with 236. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u264	And they apply essentially to one organ, which is the Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Give me a minute, I'll get out and then I'll put on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u265	Please. Please, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u266	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been faithfully stated here that, such a remark that you are asking for two months, and the law seems to be one month. And think of a story with an organ like the baby. We asked for six months -- we didn't go, we didn't, because there's a real job to be done. And what did we get? We voted on the bill and moved it to two places because it wasn't enough. Make sure it doesn't happen in this case. Then it will be some kind of responsibility. My three revisions say ordinary things. The NABA Act is the NABA Act. To change the rules of the 116, to file a complaint. and should not enter the work of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office by this law. It is necessary to leave the office for the prosecutor, but it is not the law on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u267	This is about 236 amendments. It's taken into account by the committee, but you suggest putting it on confirmation. I'll give it to brief information to the committee. And then the hall will be defined. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u268	Colleagues, the committee took this amendment into account. The hall can be defined by it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u269	Because there is logic. Come on, fellows of honor. I'm betting on 236 amendments that are considered by the committee for confirmation. Please identify yourself. [[14:55:43]] For-57 The decision is not taken. The edit is considered rejected. Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Your next amendment, you said you wanted to put it on 265. Please give your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u270	Well, I gave the argument in that minute. But thank you for the opportunity to speak. Dear National Deputies! Well, at the end of the day, there's the Rules, which is the basic law for our work. Well, it's impossible to make changes to the Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office that weren't made in the first reading. And this readjustment speaks of the exclusion of the terminology in general, "Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office." For people who haven't seen the table and don't read the laws, I'm going to say that the head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, he's got a tire, and he's called the Deputy Attorney General, and he's got a reference to the Procurator's Act, which we've already changed, and we've reformed, and his legs have been wiped out -- they don't give up, they're working and everything else. Let's not even go in there. Please set number 265 for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u271	So 265 revisions, it is. The committee's position is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u272	Colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment. Excuse me, this amendment has been taken into account by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u273	Thank you. So 265 revisions, the same situation. The committee counted, but the argument was given. So, dear fellows, I ask you then to identify yourself from this matter and vote. [[14:57:44]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. And 298. Objection, Gregory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u274	Unfortunately, we don't hear any argument from the committee. First. And the second. If there is no argument, please name who requested these amendments here will be inserted into the bill in violation of Rule 116? There's still a decision to make. This amendment applies again to the Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Thank you for your support on the previous two issues. And in my opinion, and in most rooms, that every work of that body, which is provided for by a separate law, must be defined not by the NABA Act, as in history, but simply by the law that regulates the activity, the Procurator's Act. Please place the 298 on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u275	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u276	Colleagues, the committee took this amendment into account. But it has to do with a previously rejected hall of correction. Appropriately, the hall can also be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u277	So in a system connection, we're interpreting, right? Thank you. Dear colleagues, information on 298 revisions. She was counted by the committee. At the same time, the committee reasoned that since the previous amendments had been rejected and related to the hall, the room could also be identified and voted in favour of the amendment. So I'd like you to vote, make up your mind. [[14:59:35]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u278	Let's start at 28.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u279	Please, 28 revisions. Considered by the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u280	Colleagues, all those, should we fight corruption? Apparently, yes. Should this be done in a constitutional way? Well, for someone, obviously, yes, and for us, obviously, yes, only in a constitutional way. If we're talking about the NABU being the central body of executive power, then the form of coordination by the Cabinet of Ministers cannot be limited in accordance with the Ukrainian Constitution. All those who now support this amendment are simply trying to bring this issue to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and get a second ruling from the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the unconstitutionality of all that you are currently fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u281	Please take the 28th amendment position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u282	Colleagues, the committee took this amendment into account. And in fact, this amendment is necessary in order to make it clear what the Cabinet of Ministers can do in a part of coordinating the activities of the NAB and everything else can't be done accordingly. This is exactly what it takes to ensure the independence of the NAB.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u283	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 28th Amendment. She's taken into account by the committee, and the committee insists that she should be counted. Therefore, I ask you to vote, Your Honor. [[15:01:27]] For 288 Decision taken. You'll still be there, won't you? Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u284	By factions, if possible, show.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u285	Show the factions, please. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich, what's the next amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u286	Next 83. Special procedures. By the way, everything that the honourable lady has said to the committee head in relation to the previous bill does not correspond to either reality or legislation or to the Ukrainian Constitution. The Constitution defines what makes the Cabinet of Ministers unconstitutional in relation to the central executive authorities. And you've just voted on an amendment that exactly makes the bill that you've adopted unconstitutional at least in this part. With regard to Amendment 83. You don't have to do any special procedures. I understand that nobody's history teaches anything, but, again, I would like you to mention a story with the former head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Because at first the so-called public activists were running and shouting that he had to be released by special procedures, and then they were running and shouting, "Oh, oh, oh, oh, why can't he be released?" In fact, there must be normal legitimate grounds for exemption that allow the director of the NAB to work independently. But once again, independence and uncontrolledness are a little bit different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u287	I'll bet on the vote 83 of the amendment. The committee counted it, and I understand it confirms its position on taking account of this amendment. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[15:03:19]] For 288 Decision taken. The edit remains counted. You don't insist anymore, Sergey Volodymyrovich, do you? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand that we are. [[B in m in s a l in]] Demchenko? Demchenko, please. People's MP Demchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u288	Thank you, Mr. Head. Colleagues, I'd like to pay attention to strictly legal moments. There are even articles in the relevant bill, although most of them are political. First of all, number 97, please place it for confirmation. What are we talking about? We're trying to make changes to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedural Code. Ukraine’s Criminal Procedure Code provides for an exclusive list of criminal conduct measures, including removal from office. The bill, on the other hand, proposes to apply new security measures, namely, removal from office, suspension from duty. Both types of security are not prescribed by the Criminal Procedure Code. Therefore, it is absurd to continue to formulate the norm that appropriate measures are applied in the order defined in the Criminal Procedure Code. So, colleagues, I suggest you fail the correct amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u289	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u290	Colleagues, the committee has taken this amendment into account, and the hall can be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u291	Dear colleagues, that's what I understand. Again, 97th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u292	Colleagues, I'll make it clear how the committee supported this amendment. The committee gives a straight line. The drafting of the bill gives a direct reference rule, which is purely on the basis and in the order provided for in the Criminal Procedure Code (the dot). There are no changes to the Criminal Procedure Code, no additional positions on what is already provided for in the Criminal Procedure Code. The committee took this amendment into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u293	Dear colleagues, we have a situation in which 97 amendments are considered by the committee, but the committee head says that the room can be determined by the logic of applying this amendment. Do I get it right? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[15:06:04]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Is there anyone else who'll be there? No, it's not. Then, dear fellows, we move on to the vote. You will, won't you? Please, Demchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u294	Thank you, Mr. Head. Another technical remedy of a purely legal nature, with no political consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u295	Name the number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u296	No beneficiary of this bill will be dissatisfied. Colleagues, it's about the 284. I'm going to quote it as follows: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine prohibits interference with the activities of NABU, particularly in the conduct of pre-trial investigation and decision-making concerning specific criminal conduct." Colleagues, the corresponding remedy contradicts article 3 of the relevant NABA Act, which provides for the basic principles of the National Bureau's activities, according to which we have this NABI independent of any body and carries out appropriate independent activities. In addition, an appropriate remedy contradicts article 40 of the Criminal Procedural Code, which provides for a retroactive approach to the possibility of interference with criminal conduct. The Criminal Procedure Code indicates that no one has the right to intervene in criminal proceedings other than those directly provided for by law. Thus, the standard is inappropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u297	Thank you. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u298	Colleagues! The committee has taken this amendment into account and it is critical that it remains taken into account, because it is this amendment that sets a direct ban on the Cabinet of Ministers to intervene in any way in the implementation of what the NABU is supposed to do, namely in the course of the trial. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u299	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 284 revisions. She's taken into account by the committee, and the committee insists on keeping her account. Dear colleagues, please support this amendment and vote. [[15:08:20]] For 287 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we're passing. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to making a decision. There is no obligation to read, there is an obligation to show. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the status of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine (registration number 5459-1). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[15:09:21]] For 304 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. Hello, Anastasia Olegovna, with the project in place. The law is passed in general. From Sergey Volodymyrovich's procedure, please, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u300	Dear Mr. Head, I understand that criminal and procedural legislation does not provide for analogy. But I'm asking you for an analogy with the Criminal Procedure Code every two hours for at least five minutes, for 10 minutes to call a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u301	Sergei Volodymyrovich, I'm very pleased, but I think we're going to get into this bill right now and it's time to realize our right to rest by going out between rights. I can't contradict the will of the hall, which is so unrestrained that it wants to work. Dear colleagues, while a little announcement is being made, let me make some announcements for a little break. The first announcement is that according to article 60 prim. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional MPs association "For the Development of the Maritime Sector and Infrastructure Reforms". The head of this association was the national deputy of Ukraine, Arahami David Georgiyovich, and the deputy of Urban Anatoly Igorovich. Hello, colleague! And also came information from the "Serviary of the People" faction, which says that according to part of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are reporting the expulsion from the political party's deputy faction of the "Serve of the People" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth People's Deputies of Ukraine, Buymeister Ludmila Anatoliyevna. The information is contained in a letter. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next bill, 5850. I invite you to the rostrum of the committee, Danilo Alexandrovich, please. Dear colleagues, will anyone insist on their amendments? Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka, right? Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko i. 1 amendment, Puzichuk Andry. Don't insist. Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Don't insist. Puzichuk. Don't insist. 4th, Pussychuk. Don't insist. Batenko. Don't insist. Dubinsky. Don't insist. Petrunjak. Don't insist. 10th, Mama. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, in this room, we have repeatedly raised the question of what is more important. Law? But the Constitution is also the law. And there are rules and definitions in the Constitution that do not change other laws, regulations. This law essentially changes the basics of the Law -- in the Constitution, in this bill. That is: please do not exclude or change the approach of the Basic Law – this is the definition of article 99 of the Constitution of Ukraine – this is "the security of the monetary unit is the primary function of the central bank of the State, the National Bank of Ukraine. We're just changing it and changing it to say, "money credit policy is a set of measures in the area of money circulation and credit aimed at ensuring price stability through the use of monetary credit policy tools."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u303	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the 10th amendment of Mamka's national deputy, Grigori Mikolaiovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[15:13:52]] For-43 You know, there's something wrong with the Helen Constantine button. Please, if you don't mind, have someone come along. Two buttons. The Bureau must have been cut off. You're saying that only the opposition, the presidency is also being cut off. For 43. The decision is not taken. All right, let's move on. But we were denied the right to vote with Helena Constantine. Next, 12th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 14th. Julia Volodymyr, please, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u304	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. My dear friends, this is a good law for Ukraine, it's obvious. And the point is, Ukraine manages its monetary policy, manages its economy through the financial system, through the National Bank of Ukraine, or does not manage it. Now this law, in principle, does three things. First. The National Bank of Ukraine is completely out of the system of government of Ukraine. Who will rule it? I'd like you to clarify. The other one. It completely clears up all the reporting that can happen, even before the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council. And the third. The National Bank of Ukraine is transforming into a system of money making in the shadow sector, and this will enrich itself. That's why 1 amendment is to prevent it. We suggest we take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u305	Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u306	Dear colleagues, I'll explain what this law is about and why this law is about people. Because this law on course, this law on inflation. This law on the stability of the banking system and on the authorization of the National Bank, which is intended to ensure this for the benefit of the people. And those amendments, those changes to the National Bank Act that are introduced by this bill, they reinforce the independence of the National Bank, which we insist that none of the political motives (not the President, not the Parliament, not the Government) can influence the National Bank's performance of its constitutional duties, constitutional functions for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u307	I'm betting on the vote of 14th Amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna. The committee is proposing that it be rejected, so I ask you to vote. [[15:16:50]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Next, 15th. Juliana Nina Petrovna, please
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u308	Dear colleagues, I see there's a lot of amendments, almost all that aren't taken into account by the committee. It was just thought that it was a law for people or for people. Well, besides laughing, she's not causing anything. So I think there are people among us who trust experts who work at the General Legal Office. Please note the conclusion, the main points to which they drew attention. And what's said in the main conclusion is, "The bill needs to be finalized to take into account the possibilities provided for in part six of article 118 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules." This means that if the conclusions of legal expertise and editorial work contain comments on a draft bill prepared for second reading or second reading, the Main Committee may consider at its meeting these particular proposals and other members of the Committee prepared to take account of such conclusions. There are five main points.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u309	Thank you. I'm betting on the 15th amendment of the National MP of South Nina Petrovna. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[15:18:34]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 17. Nicolanca. Don't insist. 18th, Scrum. Don't insist. Sobolev, 19th. Sergei Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u310	Sobolje, Fatherland. Mr. Chairman, look, there are half of your factions left in the room. We asked you to call it a break. There are normal needs when the break is announced at least every three hours. I'm not talking about half your faction without masks. We do not know whether they are sick or not. Did they do the tests today or not? Basically, it's a fix. Head of the Committee, read the Constitution, which clearly lists the key constitutional responsibilities of the National Bank. And the key constitutional obligation is to maintain a national monetary unit. And you say, maintain price stability. A bracelet can be depreciated 20 times. And what is this price stability about? We have to write it as it is in the Constitution. Do not violate the Constitution in key terms of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u311	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. I'll vote on the 19th amendment. Oh, the explanation? Please, the committee. 19 Amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u312	19 Amendments. Thank you. The function and purpose are different categories. In particular, the function gives no idea of the outcome of a policy that needs to be achieved. That is why article 6 of the National Bank Act defines what is at hand. It's literally, "in performing its function, its core function, the National Bank has to come from the priority of achieving and maintaining price stability in the state." Price stability is exactly inflationary targeting, and that's what we're doing with the National Bank. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the central function of the National Bank is to ensure the stability of Ukraine’s monetary unit. The stability of the monetary unit is inflation, that's price stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u313	I'm betting on the vote 19 amendment of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. You've heard the reasons. So please identify and vote. [[15:21:18]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 20. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u314	It's very nice when, in fact, most people talk about ordinary things. The Amnesty Law: All men were called wrongdoers, already amnesty. The Nazbank Law is also for people, but for people. Again and again, you and me. The problem is that laws can introduce or make new decisions about conformity. But the new criteria of work, the definition of new concepts of balance of payments, everything else. Look, we're here, 99 percent of the economy doesn't understand. But we all change the concepts that will be applied by the central bank of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine. I'm going to suggest that we don't make a new definition of the balance of payments, because this new definition is confusing what the number is coming from, who is it coming from.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u315	I'm betting on a vote of 20 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee proposes to reject this amendment. So please identify and vote. [[15:22:56]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 21. Puzichuk. Don't insist. 22nd. Don't insist. 23rd, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 25th, Nataluha. Don't insist. 26th, Nikolainka. Don't insist. 27th, Scrum. Don't insist. 28th. Sergey Vladislavovich, please. 28th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u316	Dear colleagues, we have violated the key standard of the Constitution in the preceding article. The stability of the bracelet is a key task for the National Bank. You've ruled this out. Now in the next right, we're talking about, we're creating a private organization like the U.S. Federal Reserve System. Yeah, they do. Is this the National Bank of Ukraine? You need to get functional right away. In the United States, this system works, and we have the National Bank. So the request is a big one. These key articles, which lay the foundations, what the National Bank is, what its functional responsibilities are, are copied directly from the Constitution. Do you want to change that? Change the Constitution, no questions asked. The same situation in monetary policy. We need to clearly determine why this law is being approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u317	For. I'm sorry. Amendment 28 of the Soboljev People’s Deputy The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[15:24:54]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next 29th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 30th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 31st. 32nd. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u318	Sobolje, Fatherland. This right here also defines the basis and principles on which the National Bank will work after the rights you make. My rights and my colleagues in faction, and the other factions that suggested it, are special borrowing rights. We have clearly defined the standards that are set for the functioning of the National Bank in this part. As you have written down in the law, this actually removes all the liabilities owed to borrowers by the international financial institutions that lend us these loans. Therefore, it is a request to support the very text that is directly in the text that I have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u319	Committee position, briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u320	Look, it's very simple. This is about the definition of special borrowing rights. The definition of special borrowing rights is based on the definitions used in better world practices, including IMF. Because special borrowing rights are an internationally recognized reserve asset created by the IMF to supplement existing internationally recognised reserve assets. It just technically fits the definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u321	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 32 amendments to the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[15:26:50]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Dubinsky doesn't insist. 34th. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u322	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u323	Don't insist. Thank you. Vasilchenko. Don't insist. Puzichuk, 36th. Don't insist. 38th. Timishenko Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u324	Now I want to address all Ukrainian citizens who listen to us. I, Julia Timoshenko, the Fatherland faction, and I want to tell you that this is not about any specific law, but about the destruction of the sovereignty and independence of our state. If you want to privatize the National Bank by raiding it in virtually unknown terms, if you want to virtually remove the state of Ukraine from its management of its economy, its financial system, its budgetary policy, then the law that you're adopting is what you're doing right. And if you want to stand by the principles of State sovereignty, that means self - control, government, and country, at least read what you accept. And what's hanging on your ears right now as a noodle, you can at least figure out what you're voting for. And support our regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u325	The committee's position is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u326	Thank you, my dear colleague, for your observation. But I think it's free, for free. We're not talking to you about this law. Because if you and I were to go into the rules of this law, we would see that there's nothing there that you're saying about sovereignty or privatization or anything else. It's about, especially in the direction that you want to take into account right now, it's about matching, it's about technicality, it's about defining international standards for professional internal auditing, and it's about nothing more. So let's not thicken paint where we don't have to do it completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u327	I place my vote on the 38th Amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:29:32]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 39, Nicolanca. Don't insist. 40, Juliana Nina Petrovna. Don't insist. Oh, he insists? Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u328	Dear colleagues, I am calling on the profile committee, where I am also working, to draw attention to the conclusions and all five chapters as points of view, to reread the second reading. We will not vote in favour of this bill unless it is finalized. And now I don't see the point in every correction, because there aren't enough people. I looked at it, even formally supporting it, and technically, there's no one to propose to the people's deputies, and there's no MPs in the room. These days are being prepared for draft laws from opposition, as the amendments from opposition are being considered. And there's more. The stability of the National Bank depends on your personnel policy. Do you know that today there is information about the release of the acting Head of the NBA, and as a result of this information, which has every reason, prices have fallen on our securities of Ukraine. Take this matter seriously, please, and take it more seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u329	I'm betting on the vote for 40 amendments to the national MP of the South. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:31:18]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 41, Nataluha. Don't insist. 42, Schrum. Don't insist. 43, Puzichuk. Don't insist. Dubinsky doesn't insist. Petrunjak does not insist. Vasilchenko. Puzichuk. Bondarev. 49, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. 49 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u330	I want to explain right now that this is not about specific regulations that undermine the country's right to run its National Bank today, to control its work, to pursue financial and economic policies, not about specific rights, not about specific things that we can now discuss in a fragmented way. This is the law itself, its spirit, its essence, and Ukraine’s right to manage its National Bank and its systems. Here's what we're talking about. And so if you're going to privatize the National Bank and take it to Ukraine, at the very least, put it to a referendum and explain to the people in Ukraine what you're going to do, rather than setting up a herd that doesn't understand what she's voting for, such serious issues without discussion. That is why we insist on our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u331	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u332	First of all, I want to call for respect. Everyone in this room understands what they're voting for. First. The other one. I would like you and I to understand that any slogans and any accusations should be based on specific rules of a specific bill. That amendment that you're putting into account right now, it's technical again, and it's absolutely not that sovereignty doesn't affect, by the way, and other norms of this bill, but it doesn't contain any threats. So the committee decided to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u333	I'm betting on the 49th amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:33:49]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next 50. Eugene Nina Petrovna, do you insist? Don't insist, okay. 51st, Nataluha. Don't insist. Scram, don't insist. 53rd. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u334	59th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u335	I got it. Then let's skip. 54th, Coltunovich. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u336	Thank you, Mr. Head. Danilo Aleksandrovich, the amendments will essentially go further. I'd like an introduction first, I'd like to get an answer from you. Personally, this law was unacceptable to me when I saw that foreigners could be members of the National Bank Board, when we voted in the first reading, I warned on this. And my next 18 amendments, which I made, aren't a lot of them, but they apply to one way or another. Explain, please, how has the rule regarding foreigners who may be members of the National Bank Board changed? Because all the other derivatives, I agree with Julia Timoshenko, because this is the external management of the banking system then, the National Bank (the regulator) and all the other derivatives. So from this point of view, I would like first of all to get an answer from a fundamental and personal question to me about whether there are foreigners in your editorial system now members of the National Bank Board? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u337	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u338	Thank you. Well, first of all, this amendment does not apply at all to the question of aliens. But if we go further with you, we'll see that the criteria of a permanent residence are added to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u339	Thank you. Are you insisting on this amendment, to bet? You don't insist, Alexander Sergiyovich, do you? I got it. I bet on the vote of 54 amendments to the national MP, Mr. Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:35:59]] For-48 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 55. Puzichuk. Don't insist. Nataluha. Don't insist. Scram. Don't insist. 58th. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u340	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I kept going on that subject, and I just heard that the first few amendments are coming, but why am I insisting on these amendments? I didn't hear an answer. Please, what kind of citizenship, or exclusively Ukrainian citizens, remain in office after the first reading, until the second reading? Danilo Alexandrovich! I'm sorry, Danilo Alexandrovich, I have a question. I am interested in citizenship, can citizens of Ukraine be members of the National Bank Council? Because it's a fundamental issue of external governance in the financial system and the national regulator. We will continue to talk about other requirements that belong to members of the Board of the National Bank. Now there's a technical amendment. And that's why I want to hear the very answer to the fundamental question that this is, for example, exclusively Ukrainian citizens. It is unacceptable that they will be foreigners. I just didn't see this table before the second reading, I don't know what amendments you've made to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u341	Once again, the criteria of Ukrainian citizenship are in the law for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u342	I bet on the vote of 58 of the amendment of Coltunovich Aleksandr Sergiyovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:37:37]] For-45 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 59. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u343	59th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u344	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u345	59th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u346	59th. I said 59th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u347	Thank you. It's a law that defines this part that we in time passed a number of other legislative acts on regulatory functions, such as non-bank financial institutions to the National Bank of Ukraine, and there is no definition of terms in this law. So my suggestion is that where the function of regulating the National Bank is, and there is no regulation in this part of the law, there is no regulation in this project, so that these positions apply to the part that is in other laws. And I'm giving a specific example here -- non-bank financial institutions. So asking me to support my amendment because it makes sense, then you can refer to something, and you don't even have a definition of authority, position and terminology that you can refer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u348	I'm betting on the 59th amendment of the People's Deputy Soboljevo Sergija Vladislavovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:39:16]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! A little break like that. I've been asked to report that we have a licensee on the balcony, the first class of the legal license of Jaroslav Condratiev of the National Academy of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Let us welcome them, wish them a firm service, and a firm right. [[Applause]] Let's move on to our routine. The next amendment is 60. Puzichuk. Don't insist. 61st, Nataluha. Don't insist. 62nd. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u349	71st.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u350	71? Okay, then I'm sorry, we'll move on. 66th. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u351	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing this room right now. I understand that the order from above to vote or not to vote is decisive. And I realize that you don't care what you accept if you have some obligations to you, but you can't get to that limit. This amendment that I'm talking about is practically restoring the norm that gives the National Bank the obligation to approve the cost of its administrative expenses. By this law, they even want to cancel this story in general about the National Bank operating within its administrative expenses. This means that the National Bank's revenues will be uncontrollable, they will be used in the dark, including for corruption absolutely. What are you doing, dear friends? Support the adjustment that restores the assets of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u352	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u353	I don't want to surprise anyone in this room, but right now the National Bank's funding is being approved by the National Bank, and there's the independence of the National Bank, that neither the President nor the Kabmin nor we approve the National Bank's assets with you. Your editing isn't about anything else, but it doesn't matter. Let's vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u354	I'm betting on the 66th amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:41:52]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 69, Coltunovich. Will you insist? Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u355	Thank you, of course. Dear colleagues, well, I'll have it right after this 172th amendment. Ruslan Alexiyovich, she's an editorial, I'm going to insist on full accounting. We're just going to have that discussion that you and I had with the head of the Committee on Citizenship and the requirements of the Board of National Banks, and we're going to move it there. This amendment, in principle, is indicated here. I see that everyone is sitting with tables comparable to the second reading. They have become so familiar with it that I propose to agree with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine a number of things about creation, liquidation and so forth. But it's different. When you said that the law was for people, I just wrote a few moments for myself, you were the one who passed the bill. And if it's for people, why didn't they count the loan rate when they took 4.99? If, for people, why is the inflation that is at the top of the list of goods today -- the galloping inflation -- more than 100 percent -- why don't you stop it from taking inflationary measures? Why did the bill increase from six to 8.5 percent, and this is a loan hike? Is that what we're doing for the Nazbank people? It's a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u356	I'm betting on the 69th amendment of the People's Deputies of Koltunović. The committee proposes to reject, so please identify and vote. [[15:43:30.]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 71st. Sobole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u357	Sobolje, Fatherland. I don't understand the logic, why did they change this article? To make it clear to the hall, because I understand it, no one has read it, all of the positions that are regulated by the law that is now in force. For example: financial statistics, balance of payments statistics, international investment policies, external debt, statistical information from financial institutions, government regulation and supervision of the activities of the National Bank. I don't understand the logic, why did you remove it from this article, which is now in effect? If this is done to take these functions away from the National Bank, who will then perform these functions? Who do you trust? These are the direct functions of the National Bank. So I have an offer to leave this article in the old version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u358	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 71 amendments to the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee suggests that it be rejected, so please identify and vote. [[15:44:58]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 73rd. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u359	First of all, I want the committee manager to read the papers carefully. And my previous 66's, she's clearly talking about renewing the approval procedure for the National Bank's assets for administrative expenses. What is now being proposed -- I want to say again -- is total uncontrolledness by the House of Accounts, by Parliament, as used in the National Bank's profits. And so you don't have to mislead people who are now listening to the Supreme Council and distort what I'm saying and distort what I'm doing. At least you have a minimum conscience here. As far as 73 are concerned, this indicates that this law you are proposing is fundamentally narrowing down the powers of the Board of the National Bank, canceling entire chapters of such powers. And so the National Bank is not controlled by Ukraine. I'm asking you to support number 73.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u360	A brief position for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u361	The National Bank's treasure is nowhere to be found. Please do not mislead people who listen to our meeting. And the cost control stays the same, and that's in the law. And the National Bank's profits are listed in the budget, as they always were. With regard to this amendment. The situation in connection with the fact that you and I voted in September 2019 on the "straight" Act is excluded. And certain powers were transferred to the National Commission from the stock market and securities. And it is according to the distribution of these powers that certain powers are excluded from the Nazbank Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u362	I'm betting on the vote of 73 of the amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:47:21]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 75. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u363	Both 73 revisions and 75ths, they essentially cut down the Council of the National Bank's strategically mandate, thus pulling the management of the National Bank under the control of the National Bank Board, by handing it over to the administration of some unknown structures that the Board of the National Bank will be dealing with key issues. If, in 73 rights, the Board of the National Bank has been revoked, which has to organize and methodologically provide for the system of monetary and financial statistics, balance of payments statistics and so on, they are already expanding this right to cancel the powers of the Board of the National Bank; and they are cleaning up a section that provides for state regulation and supervision in accordance with the Ukrainian National Bank of Ukraine Act. I'm asking you to support these changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u364	I'm betting on a vote of 75 amendments to National Deputy Timoshenko. The committee proposes to reject it. So please identify and vote. [[15:48:57]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 79. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u365	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u366	79th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u367	Yeah, I want to go back to everyone who hears me in the country, who has a special education for economists, financiers. Please read Bill 5850, which essentially eliminates the influence of the State of Ukraine on the National Bank of Ukraine, where we remain as a country without the main instrument of our economic and financial life, which means life in general. And I would like professional people in the country, if there are almost no such people in Parliament, to read this bill and write in their accounts how the sovereignty of Ukraine is being destroyed today because of the adoption of such laws, through the provocateurs who are leading the entire ranks into the war virtually, understanding what they are doing. I'm asking you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u368	The committee's position is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u369	Thank you. As far as I'm I also want to talk to people who have an education that is interested in banking regulation and in the law that this right is about. This right proposes to exclude the possibility for the National Bank to protect its rights and represent its interests in foreign authorities and foreign jurisdictions. It will hardly contribute to the sovereignty of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u370	I'm betting on the 79th amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[15:51:05]] For-74. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 83. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u371	Now I want to say again that before every MP pushes the button for this law, I ask you to consult with your advisors, consult with our organs of the Supreme Council, talk to professionals who understand what this law is. I can tell you that this team that's in power today is most likely to go into non-existence in the next election, but in the meantime, the state institutions of Ukraine will be destroyed. They also told us that it was a wonderful idea to sell land. They told us that it was a great idea to introduce a gaming business, legalize marijuana, do much more, sell our strategic property, privatize state banks. They say it's beautiful. That's what the law is about right now. Our National Bank of Ukraine de facto.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u372	I'm betting on vote 83 of the amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:52:42]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 84th. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u373	105th. Mr. Head, 105th. Mr. Head, 105th. 105th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u374	Yeah, then we'll move on. Then we move on, I'm sorry. Puzichuk. Dubinsky. Puzichuk. Rapina. 91st, Sobolev. 91 or 107th? 105. All right, let's move on. 105. Let me see. If there's nothing to it, then. 99th, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u375	Dear colleagues, I'd like to say again about 99 revisions. Words mean a lot, because what we're seeing right now is, in fact, the Board of the National Bank is levelling, practically canceling the Board of the National Bank, making the Board of the National Bank a decorative body that doesn't decide anything. And I can say that by this right, I propose in paragraph 4, paragraph 1, of section I of the draft law that the National Bank Board approves the relevant documents, not just how it approves them. We believe that the powers of the Council of the National Bank must remain as they were -- strong, perfectly consistent with the Constitution, and with powers that have the power to control.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u376	I'm betting on the 99th Amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[15:54:50]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 100. 100 amendments, please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u377	Dear colleagues, as you can see or see in the table, most of the amendments here are prepared jointly with the banking expert environment. So I don't understand why this authority thinks they're smarter than them or more they know, and they don't even use the legal services of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? I have a question in this regard. A similar amendment is indeed a very large number of norms that invalidate the role and functions of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. And I have a question about that. Please tell me that there has been a vacancy of a member of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine for six months. There are five candidates who have filed documents. Why does the profile committee not consider these candidates? For whom is the place being prepared, the position? And do you have the capacity at all to fill not just your own people but the expertise of those institutions that are essential in the state?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u378	A brief position for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u379	Dear colleague, the professional potential is not ours, is in the state, is in Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. And I'm sure you and I will make the right decision. And we're not announcing today's competition, just waiting for this bill to be passed, which will change the power of members of the National Bank Council, and we're going to choose a new one so there won't be any legal collegiates. That is why we do not hesitate to ask that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u380	A vote is taken on amendment number 100 of Nina Jujanina’s national deputy. Please vote. [[15:56:57]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 105 of Soboljev Sergia People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u381	Dear colleagues, the key question: Is the National Bank's government just providing this document or should it be approved in advance? On the basis of these projections, the state’s budget is still being planned. My proposal is to make it clear that the government approves, not just gives. Because first a government decision should be approved, and then a budget will be drawn up. Part of what you've reduced these terms to be time for budgeting, July 1, I agree. And that's the part that says "yes," and I have a request to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u382	Thank you. Vote number 105 of the Soboljeva People's Deputy. Vote please, Your Honor. [[15:58:12]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 108 lashes, Petrunjak. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 110 lashes. National MP Julia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u383	I'm asking the next ten of my rights, they're just questions that reinforce both the functions of the Head of the National Bank and the functions of the government of the National Bank. I'd like instead of ten rights three minutes to say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u384	Please, three minutes, Mrs. Yulu. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u385	Dear colleagues, the fact is that the National Bank of Ukraine is such an institution of the state that directly affects economic well-being, which directly affects the right financial policy, directly affects inflation processes, economic development, economic growth, the order of credit, the availability of financial resources in Ukraine's economy. This is a whole set of issues that will either enable the country to live and work successfully, or if the National Bank is not working for Ukraine, if the National Bank is working in a speculative interest, in a corrupt interest, then the National Bank may unfortunately be a destructive element of our nation's economy. That's what everyone knows. It's an axiom. One of the world's famous financiers said that you give me the right to run the National Bank of this country and I don't care who's adopting the laws in this country because the National Bank is essentially our life. What is being proposed today is this bill, which essentially brings out the National Bank from all systems of the vitality of our state. The governing bodies of the National Bank are completely depreciated, in fact, by coordinating the economy of the state between Parliament, the National Bank, the government, and the President. In fact, the country is moving away from its ability to develop the country financially and economically correctly. Recall the situation when 105 banks were cleared in Ukraine when all middle class assets were taken away. Recall the time when inflation as a result of the collapse of the bracelets plunged the country into an unprecedented crisis when, in fact, the middle class, a significant part of it, had lost its resources and assets. All of this was the National Bank's policy because the National Bank was not working in the interests of Ukraine. And now the exact same line is continuing, but besides what has been done to date -- insurmountable loan rates, practically credit constraints, destructive work of the National Bank's tools, it will now not be easy to continue, and it will be legally established as an independent absolute structure -- the National Bank, which will already have the right not to work for Ukraine. Do not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u386	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna, will you insist on 110 votes? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u387	I'm asking you to ten rights of all my next ones, which I took three minutes to put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u388	We'll go later. The 110th draft of July’s National MP, Timoshenko, is now in the vote. Please vote, Your Honor. [[16:02:34]] For-72 The decision is not taken. It's 111. Nina Yuzanin, please. Don't insist. Sobolev, 113th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u389	126th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u390	Okay. Now. Then I'm putting the next 115 right to vote for National Deputy Timoshenko, whom she was discussing in the previous one. I'm betting on the 115th amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko. Please vote. [[16:03:22]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, 124th, do you insist? Nina Jujanin, 124th, don't you insist? 126th. Please, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u391	Dear colleagues, this is about avoiding a situation that was in the Ukreximbank when the head of the institution allowed himself to be insolently thrown away by journalists, given commands to do so, then hid information, then hid behind a seemingly state secret. And the secret was, it turns out that the state, you think about it, Ukreximbank was lending to structures that were in the territory of so-called LNR, DNR and paying taxes there. So in order to avoid this situation, I have a clear proposal: who exactly approves the Code of Ethics for National Bank staff. There must be double control so that it does not do it for itself or, for example, the warehouse.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u392	The position of the committee is brief and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u393	Honestly, I don't quite understand what this is about with the Ukreximbank that we've all condemned, and the legal evaluation was given by the law enforcement agencies. But if an authority such as the National Bank's government is in charge of the National Bank, it should probably approve the Code of Ethical Conduct, not someone else who is not responsible for direct management. That makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u394	Thank you. I'm betting on the 126th amendment of the Soboljeva People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[16:05:45.]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. 130th, Julia Volodymyrna, put to the vote. I'm betting on a vote of 130 amendments to the National Deputy of Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:06:18]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to the Yuzanin. Puzichuk. Nataluha. Scram. 138th, Sobolev. Don't insist. We're missing it, aren't we? Is it going to be 215? All right, before that, we're missing. Okay, thanks. 143. The amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. I'll bet you a vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:07:04]] For-67 The decision is not taken. 145th, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Don't insist. 146th, Eugene. Don't insist. 147th, Dmitry Alexanderovich. Don't insist. I'm sorry, I just don't have it here. You're asking me to vote 145th, aren't you? I'm betting on the 145th amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:07:43]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 150th, Nataluha. Don't insist. 150. Scram. Don't insist. Don't insist. 153rd, Mama. Don't insist. 154th, Petrunjak. Don't insist. Puzichuk, 156th. Don't insist. 157th, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the 157th amendment of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:08:28]] For-67 The decision is not taken. 158th, Eugene. Don't insist. 159th Sobolev. Don't insist. 173rd, Coltunovich. 172th, but it's partially accounted for. You insist, don't you? Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. 172th is part of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u395	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, why I insist, it's partly accounted for, in full accounting, is the fundamentals of this law. See "Member of the Board of the National Bank may be a person who is a citizen of Ukraine" – and beyond. What's the committee doing? Specifies: partially counted. So all the other requirements that apply to a member of the National Bank Board are relevant, except for "20 years lives in Ukraine." But a member of the National Bank Council, and this is the principle of my position, should be exclusively a citizen of Ukraine. I want you under the transcript, Mr. Head, to say that we're giving up national interests. We're bringing foreigners to the National Bank Board. And please tell me why you're doing this. If you're doing it. And if not, let's count 172. As for 20 years of living, look at the reasoning of the committee. Because organizations can work in the IMF, the EBRD, and so on. So these people are also going to be involved. So the law, including it, is written under the IMF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u396	Is the committee going to be in position?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u397	Thank you for asking. 56 rows, now I'm going to find it, the tables, the row of the table. Please note: Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u398	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 172 amendments, are considered in part by the Committee, while the author insists on taking this amendment fully into account. So I'm voting on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[16:10:59]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. The article remains in an editorial that is part of the committee. 173rd. Coltunovich. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u399	Of course. See, further on this subject, the next amendment. There are also changes to part five of chapter five, and paragraph three suggests that the following should be made: that a member of the Board of the National Bank may be a person who is a citizen of Ukraine with more than 20 lessons. This is where my amendment relates to the fact that the exception goes that the acquisition of citizenship should be 20 years ago, not yesterday. So I insist, this is for me personally, for our faction is a fundamental question. We saw what we did with the banking system from 2014 to 2019. We are if we come in. As of January 1, 2014, the number of banks was 180, now 71, 33 with foreign capital. When it comes to healing, we know what steps have been taken with regard to unfair competition, no one will allow these crimes to be hidden. That is why I insist that the citizens of Ukraine be members of the National Bank Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u400	Please, the position of the committee, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u401	I thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, for your offer, but in fact why 20 years, not 25 and not 50, is not understandable, and why not 5. You have defined a number that has no justification on one side. On the other hand, the crisis that we saw and the result of this crisis as a bankruptcy, which was being carried out by Ukrainian citizens, I want to remind you of the various citizens of Ukraine. That's why we included the criteria of the Ukrainian people. Please note: 56 rows of tables, including the criteria for "the Ukrainian population" and the criteria for "permanent residence" included. But turning this norm into absurdity, I don't think anyone gave us the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u402	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting 173 times the amendment of the national MP, Mr. Koltunović. She's been rejected by the committee. So please identify and vote. [[16:13:28]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there is a 15-minute offer to take a break, disinfect the hall, natural needs, and so forth. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u403	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, we continue the Council meeting after our technical recess. I'm going to ask the national MPs to come to the hall. I'm inviting you. 174 amendments to the Parliamentary Chamber of the People's Republic of Koltunović are included in part. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u404	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear Mr. Chairman of the Committee, why do I insist on taking full account? It refers to the fact that a member of the National Bank Board may be a person who is a citizen of Ukraine for 10 years. I'm going to respond to your feedback and your observations, why 20 and why 10. From my point of view, it's not the methodological aspects, it's the economic and economic and political cycles that were in the country. If you remember, since 2005, there has actually been an outside administration in Ukraine, and this has started with President Yushchenk. So from this point of view, 20, 10. Because if we wanted to technologically extend this process, there would be 20, 21, 22, 23 and then still months and days, we understand, and maybe even hours. And that would really be thousands of amendments. But it's not there, and there's a point to this amendment. So, once again, the fundamental point: exclusively Ukrainian citizens are members of the National Bank, four of them are appointed President, four are Supreme Council. We see worthy Ukrainians who will be worthy to represent the economic bloc at the National Bank Council. Thank you, and please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u405	Thank you. Alexandre Sergiyovich, 174 amendments, is part of the committee, but as the author you insist on taking full account of this amendment. So I'm voting on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[16:32:49]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Thus, it remains in the committee’s line. Let's move on. 175, Nicolanca. Don't insist. 176, Puzichuk. Don't insist. Petrunjak, 179. Don't insist. Rapina. Don't insist. Nataluha. Don't insist. Scram. Don't insist. 185th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 187th, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Technical?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u406	Mr. Head, I'd like to brief you on Dostoyevsky's quote from the Karamazov Brothers in the original language. There is only one line: "There is no care more unceasing and agonizing for man than when he is free to seek a place of worship faster." That's exactly what we're talking about. They've only gained independence, they're looking for where we can put our financial and banking system, our interests, and the whole of it under external administration. I want to say from this point of view that a number of subsequent amendments are technical, but I'm not going to put them to a vote, but I'm going to tell them what their difference is. In principle, I don't insist on an amendment regarding the recognition of efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u407	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Let's move on. 191. Fuck. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is he insisting? God, I didn't see what you were. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u408	Thank you. But that says one thing about inconsiderateness.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u409	I'm very careful. I even asked if you were already there.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u410	Dear National Deputies! So again in the second reading, we're doing what's happened and how it happened. Well, we are advised that the basis for the release is the person who was brought by the court to criminalize a corruption, criminal offence. And this crime is corrupt? He's gone. I mean, for crimes we attract, for crimes we don't. I propose with my permission to write, "A person who has been brought by the court to criminal responsibility for a corrupt criminal offence or a criminal offence involving corruption." That's the way it's going to be legally, so that we don't have a difference -- that's the case, that's not the case. So we've already changed the declaration several times, we haven't changed anything, so let's at least change it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u411	I'm betting on the 191th Amendment of Grigori Mikolaiovich Mama. The committee proposes to reject, so please identify and vote. [[16:35:34]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 218. Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u412	I don't insist on 218.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u413	Thank you. 222, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u414	Ten straights. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u415	Oh, all right, I'm sorry, we're voting right now, yeah. I understand, thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. I'm betting on a vote of 222 Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko's amendment. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:36:35]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Puzichuk. Rapina. Nataluha. 229th, Sobolev. I think you insisted, didn't you? Oh, that goes on. Okay, thanks. 231st, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u416	Amendment 231 at the end of the committee excludes the rule that a member of the Board of the National Bank, whose term of office has expired, is in office as a newly appointed member of the Board of the National Bank. With this spirit of law, as you call it, it is said that all elections must be completed by the end of the term. But the key question, how does practice show, and if it does not go through and there will be no new leader, and who will perform duties during a period of time that the old one cannot, and the new one has not yet replaced. In this regard, I propose leaving the old rule of the law that I have spoken about and putting my vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u417	I'm betting on a vote of 231 amendments to the People's Deputy Mamka Grigori Mikolaiovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:38:13]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Yeah, let's see. 235, Juliana Nina Petrovna. Don't insist. Nataluha. Don't insist. Nicolanca. Don't insist. Scram. It's cold. Don't insist. It's cold. Don't insist. Puzichuk. 245, Mama. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. 246, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 248, Mama. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 248, you insist. Please, Grigory Mikolaiovich, 248.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u418	Look, this is essentially what they call faster, more technical. But the chairman of the committee said that he took some of the standards of the project by analogy to the laws that had been passed before, including the State Bureau of Investigation. So this right here is identical to section 7 of part four of article 10 of the State Bureau of Investigation Act. Moreover, my 99 percent amendment reproduces an amendment accepted by the committee for second reading, but it is completely rejected, i.e. it is one-on-one. Why it's rejected, it doesn't make sense. So I do propose to take my amendment into account and put it to a general vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u419	I'm betting on a vote of 248th Amendment of the People's Deputy, Mother Grigori Mikolaiovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:39:57]] For-41 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 252, right? Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, 252nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u420	Dear colleagues, this is an article that defines the order of discharge and the reasons for this. We have a discussion here, and everyone wants a clear explanation. So if a person is not a Ukrainian citizen, can he hold a position or not? Why is this important? Because we don't make any warnings that it could be an aggressor country citizen. Imagine this situation. Maybe you're writing it out in another situation, or maybe you're writing it out like this. Therefore, paragraph 3, I ask for a clear settlement: the cessation of Ukrainian citizenship, the establishment of citizenship, the submission of a foreign state, the departure from Ukraine to a permanent place of residence. And then it takes away all the reasons for any interpretation of the key article. If these standards work, then you're clear to everyone, you're out of Ukrainian citizenship, you're out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u421	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u422	Dear colleagues, I ask that you pay attention to the text of the amendment. You suggest just after the words "extending abroad to a permanent place of residence," add the words "or losing the status of a resident of Ukraine." The resident of Ukraine is the terminology and term of the Tax Code, which has nothing to do with this law and the status of citizenship at all, so we refused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u423	I'm betting on the 252th amendment of the Soboljeva People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:42:06]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Now. 263, Mama. Don't you insist? 257th? I'm sorry, but it's partially counted. Are you insisting on the whole thing? Grigory Mikolaiovich, please. 267th. 257, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u424	Thank you very much for not violating the rights of the national MP. First of all, I would like to provide three new reasons for the termination of the terms of office of a member of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. The first is the fact of death. Maybe there's a situation that the councilman died, the Kingdom of Heaven, and you have to do these things anyway. The other one. So when they take it, it floats into board members, they ask, "Do you have alimony debt?".. He says, "Yes." It does not go through the selection of documents. And if you don't get a list of documents, you have to ask the question of discharge on this basis. That's right, it'll make sense under the law. And the third. Recruiting the legal force by accusing the court of committing a crime or other criminal offence or related to corruption. Well, that's got to be the reason. And that's how we get a member of the Council drawn to.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u425	I'm betting on a vote of 257. It's partially accounted for. But the author insists on taking full account. So I'm making an offer from the author. Dear colleagues, please identify and vote. [[16:43:58]] For-45 The decision is not taken. The edit remains in the editor, which is part of the committee. 263, Mama. 263, and you say 265.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u426	No, 263 -- I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u427	Oh, you don't insist. I understand. 265, Coltunovich Alexander Sergijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u428	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The amendment is technical. And on the 83rd, I'm going to insist, both in the presentation, and in the position of the committee, and in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u429	Okay. Then we'll miss this one. Thank you. Come on, come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? We haven't arrived yet. 269th. Julia Volodymyrna, we agreed you were there. No, won't you insist? Okay. Scram, 281st. Puzichuk, 272nd. Sobolev, 273rd. Don't insist. 275, Mama, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u430	Ladies and gentlemen, here we go, in the 275th direction, that the mystery, as stated in the committee's decision, is reserved for those invited to the Board of the National Bank and is extended by the requirement of article 66 of this law. But I want to point out that the mystery is different. And that's what I'm going to add. First. There are also 66 laws in this article. And about preserving the state's banking or service secret. Because so that we don't go to the same place and tell them that listen, this refers to a secret, well, that's not the secret that we meant, because for its disclosure, if there's no specifics in the broken law, there's absolutely no responsibility at all. And what is in the law is a mystery, but unconcrete, then there will be no responsibility for its disclosure. Please consider my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u431	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote 275 the amendment of Mamka's national deputy, Nikolaiovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[16:46:27]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next, the next amendment is 278. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, 278.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u432	Mr. Chairman, I'm asking with 278, 10 of my right hand, instead of three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u433	Please give Julia Volodymyrna 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u434	Dear colleagues, the next block I want to discuss is a block dedicated to the closure of information from the National Bank of Ukraine. In fact, this law provides for several important things that are incompatible with Ukraine’s national interests. First. The National Bank of Ukraine de facto and now de jure is being removed from the government system of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. All the equipment envisaged at the National Bank, we'll talk about it further, they'll aim at managing the financial, economic processes in Ukraine without taking into account the national interests of Ukraine and without taking into account all the priorities of the economic development of our state. But in addition to doing such things, you have to make the National Bank untransparent. And that's why this bill provides for many paragraphs, in fact, to stop providing certain kinds of information from the National Bank of Ukraine to other national authorities of Ukraine. That is, in order to hide what will be done there against the national interests of Ukraine and in the interests of corruption in certain circles, the information is being closed. Let me give you some examples of this. The first example. This is a 301 revision, which says that the materials proposed for first reading narrow down the list of decisions that are being published, and limit the scope of public information. It was previously stated in the law that decisions of the National Bank Board are subject to mandatory publicity, except in cases where such decisions constitute a state, bank, or service secret in accordance with the law. Now this item cancels. And in fact everything that's going to be done at the National Bank is going to be very, very limited to providing information on that. And we, as one of the governing bodies of the country, of Parliament, of the same government, will also not have the right of the President to require this information. The National Bank will not be obliged to provide this information. In other words, we don't just take over the National Bank, but they shut down information about its operation. And that's why I wanted you to pay attention. And in no case can the people who are responsible for the sovereignty of Ukraine give any vote in favour of this act to deprive us of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u435	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Then we miss the 10 amendments and move on. 279th, Eugene. Don't insist. 280th, Nataluha. Don't insist. Scram. Don't insist. 282, Sobolev. Don't insist. 283, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Don't you insist? Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u436	I insist, Mr. Head, I spoke for her. This is an important amendment. In addition to what the two previous speakers said, the members of the Council. Well, I'm missing a piece. What's added. That the Council of the National Bank is meeting openly, with a broadcast on the Internet, apart from considering issues that make up a secret. For those invited to the National Bank Board meetings, the requirements of article 66 of this Law for the preservation of information are extended. So what's this all about? What's that information that's limited is, in principle, the apriors don't get there. But when we have (through whom) subjects of entrepreneurial activity, scientists, other experts, that is, this list is not limited. In our view, the openness of certain processes is positive, at least so that people know what is being done in this council, given that they want to bring foreign members of the National Bank Board. Thank you. And please comment on openness and relevance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u437	I bet on the vote 283 amendment of the People's Deputy, Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[16:51:42]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. 291, Coltunovich. Will you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u438	Look, we didn't count it before, it actually doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u439	Okay. Thank you. Let's move on then. 224th, Brainy. Don't insist. 225th, Nataluha. Don't insist. 226th, Scrum. Don't insist. Petrunjak. Puzichuk. Tymoshenko. 302, Eugene. Don't insist. 303, Sobolev. Don't insist. Dubinsky. Petrunjak. Tymoshenko. It's a Southern. Nataluha. Scram. Sobolen. Dubinsky. Petrunjak. Puzichuk. Tymoshenko. It's a Southern. Rapina. Nataluha. Scram. It's a Southern. 321st Nataluha. Don't insist. 322, Schrum. Don't insist. 323nd Dubinsky. Don't insist. 326 Sobolev. Are you insisting? What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u440	405th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u441	Oh, it's 405. [[B in m in s a l in]] And we're not here yet. We'll be right there. 326. Don't insist. 327. Don't insist. 329th. Don't insist. Sobolev, 334. 335, Dubinsky. Don't insist. Vasilchenko, 336, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u442	Galina Vasilchenko, “Justice. ” Dear colleagues, with this amendment, I suggest you leave the norm that is now. In particular, the law states that decisions of the National Bank Board should be made public, except in cases where such decisions constitute a public, banking or service secret in accordance with the law. So the norm that is now is much better than the one proposed in the editorial for the second reading. So the norm, since it's important, I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u443	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u444	The proposed changes will enable the publication of decisions by the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine, which have no impact on society, to address only internal issues related to the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine, its management and its cooperation with the Government of the National Bank. So we're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u445	Thank you. You heard the committee's position. I'm putting to the vote 336 amendment of National Deputy Vasilchenko. The committee proposes to reject, so please identify and vote. [[16:54:48]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 337th Amendment, Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich. Don't you insist? Thank you. Puzichuk, 339th. Tymoshenko. Rustling. Rapina. 343, Timoshenko. 344th, Cold. 345, Puzichuk. Rapina. 348, Sobolev. 349, Puzichuk. 350, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 351, Dubinsky. Don't insist. 354th Sobolev. Don't insist. Puzichuk. Puzichuk. Rapina. Puzichuk. Don't insist. Petrunjak. Vasilchenko. 369th, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. We've just gone through ten amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u446	389th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u447	Okay. Then I'll get to her. Okay. 371, Sobolev. Don't insist. 372, Eugene. 372. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u448	Dear colleagues, I understand that we have just passed the mandate of the members of the NBU Council and I have this question. I realized that the announced vacancy tender six months ago would be cancelled because they would now be granted new powers or restrictions on the powers of the NBA Council. Does this mean that other members of the Council will be recalled or replaced or re-elected? Please tell me you'll be with the NBA Council after all?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u449	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u450	It's gonna be okay. In fact, you and I can discuss this issue, which is not directly related to the text of this bill, in the working order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u451	I'm betting on a vote of 372 amendments. Indeed, we hope that everything will be fine. The National Deputy of South Carolina. The committee's proposing a rejection. I'm sorry. 372th, right? Don't you have to put it on? All of it. I'm sorry. Okay. Thank you. Let's move on. 374th, Eugene. Don't you insist? No, it's not. 376, Puzichuk. 377th Sobolev. Puzichuk. Sobolen. 381st, Coltunovich. Do you insist, Alexander Sergiyovich? Technical. You insist. 381st. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u452	See, Mr. Head, the question, the amendment concerns regulation of non-bank financial services markets. However, we have already passed one block. I wanted to go back to him and point out that in no way did we, within the requirements of the National Bank Board members and other points that we've prescribed, prescribed no specialities there and activities, and especially, the effectiveness of their activities. Because even when Victor Medvedchuk and I passed a bill on the activities of members of the Supervisory Boards in our time, it was the same thing as requiring: surely a Ukrainian citizen, an enterprise should certainly not have to suffer damage and a number of other things. And here I didn't notice any additional requirements for members of the National Bank Board, which, for example, if they're down six to 8.5 percent in a year. What can they get out of this? Or if they have inflation, or if the gold reserves have changed in structure? And a number of other requirements that apply to competence. Or devaluation of the national monetary unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u453	Committee position, briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u454	In fact, from Ukraine’s history, we know what is happening to you if we have inflation, a flow of course, and other issues that may have subjective reasons, or may have objective reasons, unfortunately, as we had with you during the previous crises. What will happen? If the decision was taken against the law, there would be criminal responsibility for it, and so would any other public authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u455	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 381 amendments to the People's Deputies of Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[16:59:31]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Okay. Let's move on. The next amendment is 386, right? Vasilchenko. I'm sorry, yes. 386 Vasilchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u456	Galina Vasilchenko, “Justice. ” With this amendment, my colleagues and I propose that we return to the popular definition of business reputation. In particular, among the criteria to be met by those who claim to be the Head of the NBA, we propose to add: "..that has an irreprehensible business reputation, provided that information about such a person is not available in the Single State Register of persons who have committed corruption or associated with corruption." This is a really important amendment, so please support your colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u457	I'm betting on a vote of 386 amendments to the National Deputy Vasilchenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[17:00:47]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 387. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u458	Ladies and gentlemen, do we want the National Bank to be independent, to actually lead the person who is authorized to be a citizen of Ukraine? My paper says of the ordinary things that refer to the appointment of other heads of state institutions: "..the citizen of Ukraine and who has lived in Ukraine for the past five years." Then it will be true because we can assign Ukrainian citizens who are abroad who don't fully understand the specifics in the sphere and everything else. Are you talking about responsibility? Well, you prescribed collective responsibility in the law, there is no collective responsibility. And the very nice words you said were mentioned in the rostrum for the Ukrainian people: everything will be fine. Only two questions remain: When and by whom? And it's all good.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u459	I'm betting on a vote of 387 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[17:02:19]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Next, 389th, that's what I understand. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u460	Mr. Head, I'd like to ask the 389s at 502 is 10 rights, give me 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u461	Please give Julia Volodymyrna 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u462	Dear colleagues, actually now that you're reading the news in the state, you can see that the energy collapse has reached some very extreme level, where every few minutes there's news that some companies are closing down because they're incapable of paying the gas prices they've exhibited. Every 3 to 4 minutes, reports of whether one or the other areas in connection with the fact that gas cannot be budgeted are becoming a state of emergency. You can see prices rising dramatically in the country for all foods. You can see how the country is balanced. And at this time, when Parliament, the government, all the governing bodies of the state have to unite to protect the country, at this time, without any limitation in time, a bill on the surrender of the National Bank of Ukraine is being voted on. It is not enough that the country is no longer in control, that the country can no longer manage itself because of the incompetence of government structures, that is why the law that will remove the right of Ukraine to form its financial, economic policies and to create preconditions for the development of its country is now being voted on. That's the law they want to vote on in turn. Because they're running this process outside the Supreme Council. And in the Supreme Council, laws are now being passed in a mass way, which directly contradict the national interests of Ukraine and the interests of every Ukrainian. Now the block that I'm talking about, I want to support the amendment made by our team so that the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, including the members of the National Bank, and the members of the National Bank's Supervisory Board, are citizens of Ukraine. I emphasize -- citizens of Ukraine. We don't need help from outside, and we don't need to put our state institutions, state corporations in the government today. There must be people who live permanently in Ukraine who have vocational education, who have at least 10 years of experience in adequate financial institutions to work, as well as those who can ensure the implementation and implementation of State financial, economic, legal policies. Also, so that they do not have unpunished judgment and have no information about their corrupt activities. It is against us, with all our respect for foreign nations, to put the country in external administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u463	I don't vote like we agreed. 390th, Rapina. Don't insist. 391, Nataluha. Don't insist. 392, Scrum. Don't insist. 394, Coltunovich. Don't insist. Are you insisting? Alexander Sergiyovich, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u464	Thank you. Look, even more important is the question than the members of the National Bank Board. Head of the National Bank of Ukraine and its requirements: for 20 years he is a citizen of Ukraine, he has an irreprehensible reputation, he resides permanently in Ukraine for 10 years. Why 10 Years? We saw "parasuthists" coming here, even Ukrainian citizens, and then emigrating to other countries, causing damage. We're talking to you about responsibility. And Stealm was responsible for the devaluation of the bracelets from 4.99 to 7.99? Did Gontarev answer from 7.99 to 28? And the banks that flew when we talked to you, what was 180 now 71? There must be not only criminal responsibility that goes on, but there are certain things that will make it impossible to destroy the financial banking system, not in the historical reality, but in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u465	I bet on the vote 394 amendment of the national MP, Mr. Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[17:07:23]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 405, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u466	Dear friends, it's a law that defines a restriction that cannot hold a position. I don't understand why you took the head and board members of the National Bank to this list. These are people who have very good information, who are experts who are selected in a proper manner, who are very serious requirements. Why do you take these people off the list of those who can hold a high office? I think it's wrong, there must be some very clear line: who can hold and who can't. I understand, all the other restrictions besides that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u467	A brief position for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u468	Thank you. I'll explain. I'll explain the limitations. The Board of the National Bank and the Government of the National Bank perform some other functions. And a member of the National Bank Board should have a cooling period called that before assuming the position of Head of the National Bank. Because it is possible, there is a conflict of interest if a member of the Board of the National Bank is appointed head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u469	I'm betting on the vote 405 amendment of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[17:09:11]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 421. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich. Don't insist. Yes, thank you. Puzichuk. Tymoshenko. Nataluha. Scram. Puzichuk. Ivanchuk. Puzichuk. Nataluha. Scram. Puzichuk. Nataluha. Rapina. Tymoshenko. Scram. Ivanchuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergei Vladislavovich, what's next? Everything, don't you insist? Thank you. 458, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u470	Ruslan Alexiyovich, we can miss this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u471	Beautiful. Thank you, let's move on. Puzichuk, Timoshenko, Nataluha, Skrum, Sobolev. Don't insist. 485, Mama. Don't insist. Nataluha. Scram. Puzichuk. Puzichuk. Scram. Tymoshenko. Puzichuk. Nataluha. Scram. Tymoshenko. 502th, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u472	520th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u473	How about 520? Okay, then we'll skip this one. Puzichuk. Puzichuk. Puzichuk. Puzichuk. Puzichuk. Sobolen. Sobolen. Puzichuk. Batenko. Puzichuk. 520th, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u474	Mr. Head, I'm asking from 520 to 606 -- 7 rights instead of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u475	Please give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u476	Dear colleagues, at last you and I have come to the very point. How will the National Bank be robbed? Is he going to be taken away from the profits that would have to be due to the state budget, read "the people of Ukraine"? And here we finally see, and what they want to cover, what they want to protect us from, what information they want to protect us from, shutting down the National Bank's activities from public access. Thus, section I, paragraph 16, of the draft Law, is proposed to supplement article 27 according to which the National Bank has the right to charge interest on the funds contained in the bank accounts opened at the National Bank. Dear friends, here laid directly, without any, let's say, reverends, laid down one of the dozens of tools, how the income of the National Bank will be washed away and how it will be redistributed for the benefit of its corrupt customers. I can say that this point that we're proposing to exclude now will lead to a decline in the income of the National Bank and a decrease in the revenue of the state budget, and it will also create massive corruption. That's not all. Dear friends, read, be a lass, and the part that relates to the arrangement of the gold reserve. Do you know what it says here? It is written that the National Bank of Ukraine can place gold reserves on its own or through authorized legal persons who provide financial services in international markets. So our gold reserve is going to be run by some scumbags that are going to be taken out of the street because this is where the item that was in force today, that you can hire agents only first-class banks not below category A. What's supposed to be here is not just corruption, it's the merger of our gold reserve, we don't know which hands, we don't know what conditions. And this applies to 564 and 568 and 596 and all the rights to 606. I want to refer once again to MPs who have conscience, honour, respect the sovereignty of Ukraine, independence and our right to govern our country. Do not uphold this law in any way. Every voice devoted to him is a voice committed against Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u477	521st. Eugene Nina Petrovna. Don't insist. 522nd. Dubinsky. Don't insist. 523rd. Petrunjak. Don't insist. 525th. Puzichuk. Don't insist. 526th. Sobolen. 527th. Coltunovich. Do you insist, Alexander Sergiyovich? Please give it to Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u478	Dear Mr. Head, this amendment concerns the overriding instrument. It's rejected. Let's probably have 542 corrections when we get to it. 542.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u479	Okay, thanks. 528th. Fuck. Don't insist. 530th. Puzichuk. Don't insist. 531st. Smart. Don't insist. 533rd. Puzichuk. Don't insist. 534th. Scram. Don't insist. 535. Batenko. Don't insist. 537. Vasilchenko. Don't insist. 539th. Puzichuk. Don't insist. 340. Nicolanca. Don't insist. 542nd. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u480	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiovich! The amendment concerns the following. "The National Bank provides the management of the gold reserve by placing it in internationally recognized reserve assets at market rates, but which cannot be less than or equal to zero." I don't know why I'm paying attention to this question because we've had a violent situation in recent years. The official website of the National Bank, unfortunately, does not beat, the structure of international reserves in the cutting of tools. We have $28.7 billion in securities and $1.4 billion in monetary gold. Don't give God any emergency, or when the National Bank will intervene in the currency market, you really can't handle the situation, your bracelet will fall, like in the 15th year, to 40 dollars a dollar. Where am I leading? That this is a very relevant issue and a structure. Well, what securities are, you and I understand that this is de facto garbage. So from this point of view, this amendment is.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u481	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u482	Alexander Sergiyovich, I've always taken you for an economist with a certain proportion of populism, of course, but not entirely populist. Please note that these are the securities that hold our gold reserve: these are the securities of sovereigns, these are the securities of category A, these are the securities with instantaneous liquidity. So let's not put a shadow on the knitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u483	Thank you. 542 amendment of the People's Deputy, Koltunović. I'll put her to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. You've heard the committee's reasoning. Please identify and vote. [[17:17:18]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 551, Koltunović. Will you insist? Alexander Sergiyovich, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u484	Of course, I want to answer to a respected doctor of law, a professor of constitutional law, whom I also respect, but I absolutely do not accept his work as head of the financial committee. Because I don't accept these anti-national things that are being done. And as for the portfolio structure, I know how to use the National Bank site, so when you say A rating is just $5.2 billion out of 28, I think. 3 A to 23, 3 4 is 3A. So when we talk about these moments, we have to talk about it too. I'm also willing to discuss the PDP pyramid, which is formed in the country, which is not taxed. I'm in the material. We can talk to you. But this amendment refers to the fact that the National Bank regularly calculates and publishes the official exchange rate for foreign currencies. I don't see anything at all here, considering at least that exporters, importers are constantly working in the currency basket of the euro dollar. And that's theirs, that's theirs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u485	You know, I enjoy discussing two doctors of science, professors. This is really the level of parliamentaryism that we have to aspire to. Thank you, colleagues. But I'm putting to the vote 551 of the amendment of the People's Deputy, Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please identify and vote. [[17:19:04]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 552, Repina. Don't insist. 553, Puzichuk and others. Don't insist. 555, Reasonable. Don't insist. 557, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 558, Nataluha. Don't insist. 559, Schrum. Don't insist. 560, Dubinsky. Don't insist. 561, Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich. Don't insist. Thank you. 563, Puzichuk. Don't insist. Rapina. Puzichuk. Don't insist. Vasilchenko, 569th. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 570th, Mama. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 572, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 573, Nataluha. Don't insist. Scram. Don't insist. The pussichuk does not insist on his work. Dubinsky. Don't insist. Puzichuk. Rapina. Puzichuk. Puzichuk. Petrunjak. Nataluha. Scram. Dear colleagues, please tell me, who will insist on their amendments? I understand, Coltunovich and Mama. Vasilchenko. And Julia Volodymyrna, I remember, since 606, I wrote it down. From 611? Okay. We'll get to her now. Then, with your permission, I will look at it and then speak. 611, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u486	I'm asking you, Mr. Head, 611 to 651 inclusive, and in that 3 minutes, give me a chance to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u487	Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u488	Dear colleagues, we've come to the next block of this bill on the surrender of the National Bank of Ukraine, and it refers to a complete break in communication between the National Bank, the President, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Now, I want to quote you directly to quote those provisions of the law that are being repealed by the law that is being proposed. Just listen to this. What Is Canceled? The obligation to submit an annual report to the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of monetary policy in the previous year is cancelled. So basically, all the government authorities, all the government branches of power would be completely unaware of what the National Bank was doing for a year. Next. What else will be undone? The obligation of the National Bank of Ukraine to provide information every quarter to the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council, the subject of which is the subject of banking, non-cash emissions over a period of time and beyond. So even the issue to be made by the National Bank is out of control, which means that under the control of the State, the government, the Parliament, the President is essentially a printing press. Do you understand what you're going to vote for? Well, read it! Your green button depends on the country's life hundreds of years ahead, and you press it with a smile and with completely blank eyes. Next. The National Bank’s obligation to provide the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers with information on the calculation of part of the projected income that is to be allocated and recalculated to the State budget is cancelled by 1 March of the current year. This means that the National Bank will no longer have to report to Kabmin or to you or to the President on his income and on his budget. I can tell you that they also take away the obligation to report on monetary policy. And it ends with a final version, where it says that 99 articles of the Constitution no longer work, and the National Bank does not support the economic policy of the state. These are the direct norms of this absolutely anti-Ukrainian law. I ask you, first of all, to know what you vote for and second of all not to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u489	Let's move on then. Next amendment. Vasilchenko, 625th. You insisted, didn't you? 625th Vasilchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u490	Galina Vasilchenko, “Justice. ” This amendment relates to the relationship between the National Bank of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In particular, I propose that the National Bank of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should hold mutual consultations on monetary policy and national economic policy, particularly on the forecast of individual macroeconomic indicators. The authors don't have a word. More faithfully, there's the word "maybe." And accordingly, it ruins cooperation, proper cooperation and the proper relationship between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the National Bank of Ukraine. That's why I insist on my amendment. And please support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u491	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 625 amendments to the National Deputy Vasilchenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[17:25:17]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 626. Does the mother insist? No, it doesn't. Thank you. Are you insisting? It's just that this moss is what it means to move on. Thank you. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u492	I don't understand. I wasn't in Truscavek at school.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u493	You've missed a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u494	Well, you weren't invited. I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, we're rewriting the law. Should the interaction be between Kabmin and Nazbank? Yes, it does. If we're talking about interaction, why do we allow such a regulatory function -- maybe not? Then why is such an interaction predetermined by law? It is absolutely necessary to exclude the word “maybe. ” We still have to make a commitment to interacting with each other and everything else, and then it'll be legally true. And when there's such a story as commitment, then we'll have documents that are already going to be put into some kind of bill or some kind of initiative that can be used to develop the banking field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u495	Thank you. I put to the vote 626 the amendment of the People's Deputy Mama Grigori Mikolaiovich. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[17:26:51]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 638, Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u496	Dear Mr. Head, it says here that the proposal, it is included in article 51, is the accountability of Nazbank to the Supreme Council. In my amendment, I suggested that, in addition to Kabmin, Nazbank and the Ukrainian National Deputies be given information on request. But if the committee indicates that it is in article 51, I do not insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u497	Thank you. Thank you. Then let's move on. Is Vasilchenko going to insist or not? It won't. Thank you. Puzichuk. Tymoshenko. It's a Southern. Nataluha. Rapina. Scram. Puzichuk. Tymoshenko. 651, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u498	I've already counted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u499	Oh, all right, I'm sorry. Yes, I'm sorry, Julia Volodymyr. 652, Nataluha. Nicolanca. Puzichuk. Ivanchuk. Puzichuk. Puzichuk. Puzichuk. Puzichuk. Puzichuk. Dubinsky. Scram. Puzichuk. Puzichuk. Puzichuk. Tymoshenko. Tymoshenko. Puzichuk. Nataluha. Scram. Rapina. Puzichuk. Rapina. Puzichuk. Vasilchenko. Bondarev. Dear colleagues, I think we are. What's the amendment, Julia Volodymyr?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u500	I'm asking you to give me four minutes on all the rights I have left. And that'll be all my adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u501	Thank you. Give Julia Volodymyrna four minutes. And you have one more amendment after that, Mama's, right? One minute. Please, Julia Volodymyrna is four minutes. Then Mamka is one minute. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u502	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to one particular question and then to say a few words in general about this law. A specific question. We require 699 and 702 to take into account the need, the obligation of the National Bank of Ukraine to publish data on the activities of microfinance organizations. Microfinance organizations, you know, they're making massive microcredits to people for some fantastic, fabulous percentage, and then they're taking all their property away from them. I want to say that 14.9 billion dollars of these microcredits have been issued for this moment. And with these loans, the average annual rate is 54,000 percent of the annual rate. Imagine the abuse that is taking place today uncontrollably over the Ukrainians. And no one today is fighting this microcredit, nor is it protecting people. Because everyone in power is involved, both in business and in fate. And now I would certainly like to say about this law in general. If this law is voted in this room, first of all, Ukraine will no longer be the way we want to see it. Because the sovereignty of Ukraine will be cut down into enough left - hand parts, without which it is impossible to form a state. I want to remind you that today our heroes and heroes are fighting on the front to protect our land. At that time, Ukraine’s sovereignty appears to be such terrible laws behind their backs that there will simply be no way out in Ukraine. I want to remind you that Ukraine is denied the right to influence the printing press, the economic policy, the financial policy of the state, in fact, the life of every human being. And I also want to remind you that Ukraine's independence and sovereignty are priceless acquisitions. And if you're covering up this kind of policy in the Supreme Council with fairy-tale patriotic slogans and you're giving Ukraine many years ahead, sooner or later, history will give you an assessment of your betrayal. And as a team, we're going to ask all adequate deputies to sign a petition to the Constitutional Court and declare this Act on the National Bank of Ukraine unconstitutional. And he's unconstitutional in all his positions. And so we must fight, not give up, no matter what. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u503	The hero of glory, Julius Volodymyr! We have two amendments left: 704th Gregory Mikolaiovich Mamka and 712th Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović. So after that, we're going to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] And 708, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, right? All right, so three amendments, and then we're going to vote. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. And I give Mother Grigori Mikolaiovich first, 704 amendments. Then 708, Czymbaluk Mikhailovich. And 712, Coltunovich. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u504	Unfortunately, it is late for us to see a table in violation of the Rules, but we are obliged to adjust to someone, to dance. That's the conclusion of the General Legal Directorate, and notice, after this bill, it's rarely written that way: "The bill needs to be further developed to take into account the possibilities provided for in part 118 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules." Then you might want to think, maybe something's wrong. Amendment 704 on the fact that the authorities in the central banks do not need to hide those props for banks that are given services, benefits, or credits for more than 30 days. And so we see the name of the bank, at best, and no more. My rights say that it is necessary to name a bank, a sum for people to see, a loan, a type of collateral, and a solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u505	Dear colleagues, I place 704 amendments to the vote of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[17:33:58]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 708. National Deputy Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u506	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Your Honor, from the very beginning, you said that this bill was for the people. Is it possible to ask, and will the list for whom the law is published be published? Because, speaking of Ukrainian citizens, there is no question here, as far as I'm concerned, which is today before the citizens of Ukraine who have taken foreign exchange loans and are now going through seven hells to win their rights. When it comes to this bill, it breaks the activities of the National Bank from the government, from the activities of a government that can't without the support of the National Bank and cooperation to resolve those issues that are now before the government as a whole. Today, we wanted to improve the law by our own regulations. But the whole Ukrainian people saw that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u507	I bet on the vote of 708 the amendment of the people's representative of Zimbaluk. The committee proposes to reject it. So please identify and vote. [[17:35:29]] For-61 The decision is not taken. And to this day the amendment of the 712 people's deputies. Are you still going to bet for confirmation? Then you can list it if you want. 241th, yes, and then we vote? Okay. Thank you. Dear colleagues, 712 and now Coltunovich, then there will be another amendment to the confirmation and we vote. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u508	Thank you. Dear Mr. Ruslan Alexiyovich, given that we have already completed our consideration of the draft law, I would like to look at people and the real sector of the economy, etc. For more than two years, I have been waiting for the authorities to actually vote on the bill for the people. Well, what we've talked about with you before: when there's a credit system, or at zero interest rates at all, or interest on loans for the real economy, for modernization processes, technological upgrades, the introduction of European technical regulations, standards? When will the question of lenders and depositors of banks that have lost enormously? When do they count the loans that have been raised several times since the 14th year (those that have dollar loans)? Or what about the depositors who put their money in the national currency, and they've been down about 3.5 times according to the devaluation of the national monetary unit? These are all the questions that need to be solved. But what is most important? We should see today what tools the legislator will offer to the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u509	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote 712 amendment of the People's Deputy Koltunović. It's an extreme correction. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[17:37:27]] For-51 The decision is not taken. And one amendment for confirmation. 241 amendment, authored by the national deputy Ivanchuk, but will be submitted to the confirmation of Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u510	Dear Mr. Stefanchuk, we ask you to give an answer now to us and to the Ukrainian people on amendment 241. Now we're looking at two bills. One, 700 amendments, and the hall passed. And we can see that our faction in its entirety is peacefully discussing these amendments. The previous draft of the NABU, there were about 1,000 amendments, and so the room followed the amendments, discussed, and the authors could express these amendments. And our faction even supported this NABA bill because it was important. Would you please explain why your violent activity in the position of Head of the Supreme Council and then Chairman, you began by not allowing our faction to sound 100 amendments to the so-called anti-oligarchy law? Then why did you break Parliament's knee and just our right to present the amendments that could improve the bill, you just completely overstepped it? Now you're giving everyone else a chance to follow their amendments, and the room is sitting there talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u511	Thank you. I'd be happy to answer that if the question were on theme 241 of the amendment. You're asking us to take her into account, aren't you? Therefore, fellow believers, 241 revisions. The committee proposes to take it into account, but Irina Volodymyrna asks for confirmation. I understand that the position of the committee remains to be taken into account. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[17:39:27]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on specific issues of activity of the National Bank of Ukraine, registration number 5850. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[17:40:11]] For 255 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Irina Volodymyrna's procedure, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u512	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, at 5:40 p.m. and our Parliament is now working on amendments for a few hours, as should the civilized parliament. And our faction asks Mr. Stefanchuk as Head of the Supreme Council, who has begun his violent activities as chairman of this post because he has simply forbidden our faction simply to improve the so-called anti-oligarchy law by introducing only 100 amendments, without giving us a chance to sound any, particularly the strengthening of the role of the Antimonopoly Committee. I want to ask you, at your presentation as the future Head of the Supreme Council, you promised equal treatment for all factions. Please explain why 700 amendments can now be sounded, 1,000 amendments can be sounded? And our faction does that and we talk about it calmly. Why didn't you give us, our faction, the right to sound any amendments when an important bill was discussed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u513	Thank you. Let's move on to question 5852. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act on the purchase of legal services by the National Bank of Ukraine begins. I invite you to the rostrum the head of the committee of the Committee on Economic Development, Mr. Oleksija Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, we have a small number of amendments that have been rejected. Will someone bet, insist? They will, won't they? All right, then let's go in order. 1st, Silent. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 3 repairs, Demchenko. Please, Deputy Demchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u514	Dear Mr. Head! I'm asking you to put an 8 line first, because it's the key, and then I'm going to go to the 3rd. If we don't vote 8th, there's no point in voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u515	Look, I can't put it. For the key to be determined, we need to vote on 119 articles. So let's move on. 4th Amendment, Podlasa. Don't insist. 5th, Podlas. Don't insist. 6th, Demchenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm not coming back, my friends. 7th, Podlas. I'm sorry, it's edited. 8th. Demchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u516	Thank you, Mr. Head. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support number eight. What's she talking about? It's about really confirming that we accept the logic of the National Bank. The logic of the National Bank, which is long - standing, is that they are not able to make the right choice of a counterparty for legal services. The second is that appropriate public auctions can be charged, which is the result of the same procedure for long periods of time, resulting in Natzbank requesting legal services to be provided without the use of public trade. Colleagues, the regulation that we should not apply the relevant procedure to the non-resident public service trade to all bodies, not just Nazbank, but to discrimination, to which there are very many claims. Unfortunately, we don't have an anti-correcommencement conclusion to this bill today, but corruption risks have been identified both by the legal authorities and by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u517	Thank you. The position of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u518	Dear colleagues, the amendment, first of all, does not meet the objectives of the bill. Secondly, this issue is already settled under article 40 of the Public Procurement Act, which refers to the negotiation procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u519	Thank you. Then I put to the vote the 8th Amendment of the People's Demchenka People's Demchenka. The committee suggests that it be rejected, so please identify and vote. [[17:44:46]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 10, Silent. Don't insist. 11th, Podlas. Don't insist. 12th, Silent. Don't insist. 15th, Demchenko. Don't insist. 16th, Demchenko. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we passed the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Didn't they pass? For confirmation? Please, Irina Volodymyrna, for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u520	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're going to ask for an amendment to 7 for confirmation -- this is Mrs Podlaso's amendment. Because we think that this bill and this amendment are making public procurement worse and making it less transparent. And we also turn from our faction, from the gallery, to Mr. Stefanchuk with the next request. During your presentation as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you promised equal treatment to all the national deputies, to all the factions. Your predecessor Mr. Razumkov's fate shows that the path from the passage to the gallery can be very fast. So we ask you to comment now, why don't you answer our questions, you don't answer them? You have to treat all factions with respect. And we ask again. Why didn't our faction have the right to sound any of our amendments, break Parliament's knee two weeks ago, three weeks ago, when they passed the anti-oligarchy law? And today we're through.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u521	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules, I can answer only questions related to the law and not answer any other questions. So I don't know what to tell you on the 7th, I like it, it's edited. But you insist on putting it up? Dear colleagues, look, the amendment of the 7th National Vice-Deputy of Podlasoy is taken into account in an editorial way. Reverend Irina Volodymyrna asks for confirmation. So I'm betting on confirmation in the same way that it's taken into account by the committee. Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[17:47:13]] For 272 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we passed this bill. I thank you for the constructive. So let's go to the vote for the bill as a whole. I propose that the committee adopt a draft Law amending article 3 of the Public Procurement Act on the purchase of legal services by the National Bank of Ukraine (registration number 5852) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical law. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[17:48:01]] For 268. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! We turn to the next 5853 draft Law amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the clarification of information provided by the National Bank of Ukraine for the drafting of the Budget Declaration. It's a second reading. I invite you to report to the Vice-President of the Committee for Budget Affairs, Kopanczuk Helen Eugene. Please, Helen Eugene. Dear colleagues, we have a few amendments to the rejected. Will anyone insist? Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, I understand, 9th Amendment. Yes, please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u522	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! Frankly, he was surprised by a similar legislative initiative. But when I saw the correspondence in the public plane of the two heads of the profile committees, it became clear to me. I'd like to talk to the author. to the committee's representative for the next one. Well, for example, I'm wondering why the amendment is ruled out, that by March 15, it transmits the planned forecast monetary values, monetary policy rates over the medium term. It's very important. The issue of macroeconomic and monetary forecasting in the preparation of the State budget is decisive and fundamental. This time. The other one. When the Cabinet prepares and the Ministry of Economic Development provides a consensus forecast for both the Budget Declaration and so on. This period goes on for 3 to 4 years just in the middle term. In my opinion, these rules should be abandoned, not removed from the draft law. That's why I suggested editing, actually, the basic body of the law in my amendment. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u523	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u524	The committee processed all the amendments, did not reject the medium-term planning, taking into account the exchange of information between the National Bank of Ukraine and Kabmin, it is necessary to provide information for the preparation of the Budget Declaration. That's why your amendment is off-limits.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u525	You insist. No, no, I won't. You just say, "Do you insist on betting?" I'm betting on the vote on the 9th amendment of the People's Deputies of Koltunović. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[17:50:31]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, who else does? Danilo Alexanderovich Getmants, you want to put on confirmation, I understand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u526	Dear colleagues, we have just voted with you on Bill 5850, and this is about the amount of information that the National Bank should transmit to the Cabinet of Ministers and to the President, the Supreme Council. And with this bill, if we take four amendments into account, it's going to be a colossal. So in order for us to clear this coalition, so that the standards are unified, I ask you to place amendments 3, 4, 6, 8 on confirmation and not support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u527	Thank you. I take it the committee's position is the same, isn't it? - will be in touch with that. So, dear fellows, I'm going to make these amendments in turn. The committee counted them in part, but given the situation that a new bill has been adopted, I'm putting amendment number three in turn. It is included in part, but the committee says that it cannot be supported. So please identify and vote. [[17:51:51:51]] For-64 The decision is not accepted, the amendment is rejected. The next amendment, number 4, is a similar situation, is part of the committee, but the committee thinks it can be rejected. That's why I'm betting on amendment number four. Please identify and vote. [[17:52:21]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Edit #4 rejected. Amendment number six. It's partially accounted for. A similar situation. The committee believes that it should be rejected, so I'm betting on the confirmation of Amendment 6. Please identify and vote. [[17:52:48]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. And here's the final amendment, amendment number 8. It's also partially accounted for. But with the adoption of the new bill, it was suggested that the amendment be rejected. So I'm betting on confirmation of this amendment. Please identify and vote. [[17:53:16]] For-65 The decision is not taken. The amendment is considered rejected. Dear colleagues, I'm making a proposal to the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] 17 and you still have it? And the 17th count. Do you want confirmation? Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. The 17th amendment is not confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u528	Look, I wouldn't insist, but there were two important moments. First. You've broken it down, what's in it for the share of the profit to be distributed. Well, I still understand, really, we voted before that law. I agree. But my amendment, which was the 9th, I tried to explain to the committee that the macroeconomic forecasting issues and the forecasting parameters of monetary, macroeconomic, are extremely important for the national economy and especially in the budgetary process when we talked to you about medium-term planning. Why is this excluded? I understand when you're generally shutting it down. But why didn't you put "in part" and so forth? Because these are fundamental things, any serious economist in this room will tell you that the National Bank is probably the main financial and economic institution today that determines the fate of the country. Including fiscal and generally economic policies. Let's give the committee a position. An amendment can be made for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u529	I'll bet on confirmation of Amendment 17. It's counted by the committee. Alexander Sergiyovich asks for confirmation. The committee insists that it be counted, so please vote. [[17:55:03]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote on the proposal of the committee to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the clarification of information provided by the National Bank of Ukraine for the preparation of the Budget Declaration (this second reading), this is the adoption of a second reading and in general (project registration number 5853). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[17:55:57]] For 267 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to stay put because we still have a number of drafts. They are mostly in the first reading. I think we'll be able to accept them quickly if the room has the will to do so. 5811, but we have to vote first to put this bill into the agenda. One second, I'll get Daddy. Dear colleagues. Oh, it's all voted out, isn't it? One second. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, he's been voted. I'm sorry, it's just that I must have made a mistake here. So I'm going to propose that we look at this in a simplified way. This is about the registration number of Project 5811, this is the draft Act amending Section V of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Urban Activity Regulation Act to simplify the deployment of electronic communications technology. Ready to vote? I need 150 votes, please. [[17:57:23]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? [[B in m in s a l in]] We're talking, okay. Dear colleagues, I cannot blame them, article 29 applies. Dear colleagues, I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Digital Transformation Shelesto Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u530	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. The bill deals with simplifying the construction of basic mobile stations in rural areas. This bill is critical to ensuring reliable communication in villages. It simplifies the very bureaucratic procedure that now lasts up to 350 days. It shortens it twice. The bill was agreed upon by all committees, and there are no comments. Moreover, additional safeguards have been introduced to avoid the abuse of simplified procedures. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u531	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite the head of the Committee on the Organization of State Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and the Construction of Ghana Veyacheslavna Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u532	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Our committee on September 22, 21st, reviewed this bill amending Chapter V of the Final Position Act of Ukraine's Urban Activity Regulation Act. It's about simplifying the placement of electronic communications technology and it's got registration number 5811. We discussed him very carefully on the committee. And the result of the first reading of the bill is to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals. We've put all the necessary safeguards to ensure that these new telecommunications towers don't become new buildings in the park, and we've placed restrictions on the land of the natural reserve, other conservation, historical cultural, recreational, forestry, as well as land within the green areas of the populace and interior areas. We also prohibit the change in the target destination of the land that is used for specified purposes and the failure to comply with this requirement will make it necessary to force an end to the right to use the land in court. In the event of the adoption of this bill in the first reading and in general it is proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine entrust the committee with the Chief Legal Administration of its technical and legal work. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u533	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since there was a desire to discuss, please sign up: two in favour, two in favour. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Mikhailuk Galini Olegovni, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u534	My colleagues, I think the reporters have quite fully revealed the content of this bill, which is very technical, so I suggest we proceed immediately to the vote and do not waste time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u535	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedina Sofia Romanovni, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u536	Please give my word to my colleague Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u537	Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u538	Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor, Your Honor, this bill is very important. It is important that today it allows the area, especially the rural type, to increase the quality of the Internet, to accelerate both the quality and the ability even in schools, other institutions to make important technological new modern communication. Second, the quality of the Internet allows for today and to simplify the procedure of communication in schools, medical institutions, and others. The bill contains a number of safeguards and restrictions that are important to local communities. And thirdly, the change in the target assignment also entails an appropriate procedure. "European Solidarity" will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u539	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. The word is given to National Deputy Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, MP's Party for the Future. Sergei Jaroslavovich! You will?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u540	Dear colleagues, look what this bill is for. Because the vast number of population sites in our country still have not what is full, and not even any internet. Here, I call you the settlements of the Cherkas region, where virtually no connection can be reached. Makiyivka, this is former Smilian district. Budo Makiyevka. Mikhailivka, former Kamyan district, is now Cherkassky. Ivanki Umansky district. These are the first - century ones to be mentioned. But does this mean that we have to allow these devices to be installed in everyone without exception, without any restrictions on areas? No, it doesn't. I think that if we set them up in green areas of populated areas, interior areas, land categories of the natural reserve and other conservation assignments, recreational assignments, it won't significantly increase the speed of this internet. I understand that this is the first reading. And the drafters of the bill use good intentions. But let us do better in our intentions and practice of finding a golden interior. I recall how the fifth head of the state administration in Chercas promised to make this Internet. Let's do it, but without violating the critical zones that citizens use. We'll vote in favour. And we hope that the drafters will make the necessary adjustments before the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u541	The word is given to national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u542	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Ruslan Alexiyovich, well, we see the legislative initiative of the government, but we don't see government representatives again in the Cabinet of Ministers who should report this bill. It's very sad. It's very sad. This time. It's different. I think it's not just one web of settlement networks that needs to be strengthened. The settlement network needs to be strengthened by the construction of schools that you are unfortunately closing down. Or, you've been called a new word, optimizing, taking from teachers the same small percentages of prestige, the construction of FAPs that are able to provide services in the village to the population of various diseases. I think that these bills are in conflict when we talk about simplifying the land allocation procedure under some of the other things, contrary to the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation. It is this law that is in force until 2026. And part three of article 24 of this law will not work at all if we now adopt the bill. That's why we're talking about what the Internet needs in schools, but, at the same time, with the Internet, we need to build new schools, not close the FAPs, but rather build new FAPs and enable people to live and thrive. The Fatherland faction will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u543	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill. Anyone else want to come out? Then I ask the national deputies to take their seats. And, dear colleagues, I'm proposing to the committee, it's based on the whole, but we won't, because there's a denial, I get it. The committee came up and asked just for a basis and cut the lines anyway. Dear colleagues, so I'm going to take it one by one, and then, I understand, there's a denial, and I'm going to put a cut in the lines. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Law amending section V of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation to facilitate the deployment of electronic communications equipment (project registration number 5811). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[18:07:08]] For 272 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Now, just a second. The committee, have you had any objections about the whole thing? I don't understand. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee, please, is speaking. Because the position is one. Now they say there's a different position. Dear colleagues, there is simply a warning about the text. And we don't vote. So let's stick to it. But there is nothing to prevent us from doing according to part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. I would like to vote on the proposal to cut the deadlines for proposals and amendments and prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 5811). This is a draft law amending section V of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation to simplify the deployment of electronic communications technology. This will allow the next plenary to vote on it in a second reading. Do we accept this offer? Therefore, I ask you to support and vote, Your Honor. Please vote. [[18:08:28]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. We have two bills left in the first reading. These are drafts of the Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving the Order of Preterm Cessation of Rural, Rural, Urban Head (these are project registration numbers 5241, 5241-1). Is there a need to discuss them?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u544	Then can we vote? Guys, let's vote on the shortened procedure. This takes 150 votes. I would like to consider these questions in a simplified manner. [[18:09:18]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may we vote after all?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u545	Irina Volodymyrna, well, everybody's asking. "European Solidarity" is against. I can't, guys. That is why I invite you to the speech of the Ukrainian national deputy of Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, author of Bill 5241. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u546	Roman Lozinski, “Justice. ” Dear colleagues, all who will now remain in the hall and vote in favour of this bill, will cover up another scheme that prevents living and developing local self-government. Short. On December 16, Mayor Hark's Kernes dies. On February 24, Kharkiv City Council accepts the fact of death. For 70 days the city council cannot accept the fact of death. This is a scheme that delays the election for half a year in advance. This is a scheme that leaves the hostages of the population in this case, Harkov, and in other cases, other communities that do not have the capacity to live with their elected authority. This bill, which has been signed by completely all factions and groups that decide and cover this scheme, makes it possible for communities to develop with their chosen leadership. Dear colleagues, please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u547	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the author of the alternative. One of the authors of the alternative bill, Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u548	Thank you, Mr. Head. With all due respect to my colleague, the bill is beautiful, and we ideologically support it. Our alternative is just a little easier, calmer, and easier to resolve. What do we propose? First. If the authority has ceased to exist, or if, God forbid, a village, a city head has died, the person who serves is obliged to report to the Supreme Council within five days. She did not report it, and in the next five days, she was the deputy of the city’s head. Not informed by this person, in the next five days any member of the city council has the right to direct an appropriate submission to the Supreme Council. So we're taking down the possibility of manipulation at all. Plus, we're adding to the Supreme Council's profile committee an opportunity to ask for the necessary documents. How does this happen? The decision is taken by the council, but not all the documents are sent, consciously realizing that the committee does not have the authority to ask the documents and so on. We gave the bill this right to the committee. And secondly, the second part of our bill. We cut back on the charges and court hearings on all matters related to the temporary suspension of powers, because it is the second latrine that is. A person whose authority has been suspended has been tried in court for years, and the city, village, village, village is ruled by an undisputed person. Once again, with all due respect for the co-authors of the basic bill, the bill is ideologically correct, our bill is not ideologically running, but we propose a more clear, more specific procedure. So if there is a wish, please support our bill, but we will work with our colleagues on the second reading, we will take all the notes, and we will use the mechanism to avoid such abuses, so that cities, villages and villages are ruled by those people who are actually elected in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u549	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. I invite a member of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Gurin Dmitr Aleksandrovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u550	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, the Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development discussed, at its meeting on 14 April 2021, the bill of registration numbers 5241, 5241-1, which proposes to amend some of the laws of Ukraine in order to improve the order of the permanent cessation of the powers of the rural, rural, urban and regional elections. A group of Ukrainian national deputies led by Roman Lozinski, author of the bill for registration number 5241, proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and the Ukrainian Electoral Code in order to simplify the process of appointing out-of-charge elections in the event of a permanent suspension of the powers of the rural, rural and urban head. As a result of the consideration of the bill at its meeting, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with section one, paragraph 1, of article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, a bill on registration number 5241 to be adopted as a basis and in general with the further commission of the Committee when preparing the relevant text at the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out its technical and legal work in conjunction with the Chief Legal Authority. With regard to Bill No. 5241-1, introduced by Yulia Timoshenko and other Ukrainian national deputies, the committee recommended that Parliament reject it. Let us note, however, that according to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budgeting, the implementation of these bills will not require additional costs from the state and local budgets. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u551	Thank you, Your Honor. There's a need to discuss it, isn't there? Please sign up: two in, two in. Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u552	Thank you, Your Honor. We welcome the fact that the bill is so important for local self-government to be discussed. Because not only should the electorate know what the Supreme Council of Ukraine is voting for, but the MPs themselves need to know why they are pressing the green button. Because it often happens in the face of common sense when the main thing is to execute a party faction team, but they don't even know what it is. These are certainly important bills. Our faction will support them. And he wants to point out that there is now a systematic attack on local self-government. Not only is it an attempt to transfer to local self-government all the sins of the Bank and the center, starting with the overhanging of all the debts there and these disproportionate tariffs and gas prices, but also an attempt to destroy it, for example, in Kiev, in the capital of Ukraine. And indeed, we are concerned that whatever right laws the Supreme Council does not adopt, unfortunately, the elections show that these are the last fair electoral processes in Ukraine that took place in the 19th year. Colleagues today cite an example from the 197th constituency in Cherkaszczina, where the ruling party, in order to conduct its stand, realized that it could only win there in the right vote, even moved the constituency centre to another city, saying that there were no necessary areas in the previous center for the district election commission. And how did they work in the 19th year? And of course, we want to say that today the local self-government, where you're taking the money that you have to spend on medicine, education, it needs serious protection. Therefore, it is vital that all the questions, all the laws relating to the protection of local self - government, the right of the people to choose for themselves the mayors of legal and rural heads rather than the measures to govern cities and villages assigned or performing duties so that all these laws take place in connection with the discussion of the session hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u553	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, please, Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u554	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Our MPs support the basic bill as it fits logic and common sense. Because no community can be a hostage of the situation -- the absence of the head of the community when it relies on the nominally appointed head of the community. Thus, the bill solves the matter completely. I, my dear friends, my honourable colleagues, would like to remind and now turn on behalf of the factions and parliamentary parliamentary groups to the regulatory committee, and remind them that the sessional, all factions and the parliamentary groups are awaiting tomorrow's decision by the regulatory committee on two steps. Part one is the removal of five days of the head of the Committee of Social Policy from plenary sessions of the Ukrainian Parliament. And secondly, from the "Serial of the People" faction regarding the recall of this person, the head of the Committee of Social Policy, the relevant committee. Make sure, colleagues, this courageous step is not to complicate the procedure and the voting process and the procedure for finding compromises in this room. Because the issue of this committee head, this lady, who did not find the courage to apologize to her family, to her friends, to the family of the fallen national deputy, is being discussed today in every village and in every inhabited area of Ukraine. Thank you. We are waiting for the ruling of the Regulatory Committee and the faction "Serial of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u555	The word is given to the National Deputy of Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, faction of the Fatherland. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u556	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again with all due respect to the drafters of the bill, which is recommended for adoption. Sadly, this bill does not solve a number of questions. That is, raising the right question that cities, villages and villages should be run by people who are elected by the community of cities, villages and villages, but a number of issues are not settled. How is this happening today? It's very simple. Today, according to law, the person performing the duties should send the relevant documents to the identification committee, and the identification committee, if the entire package of documents has arrived, must take the appropriate decision and pass it on to the hall. First, what should we do if we are not sent on time? Unfortunately, my belief is that the basic law does not answer that question. Second, what if not all the documents were sent? The basic law does not answer these questions. Third, what should be done if a person whose mandate is suspended has gone to court and for years the court has tried this lawsuit, unfortunately, the basic law has not answered these questions. I mean, with all due respect for colleagues, but this law doesn't solve the whole set of problems that are and don't answer the questions that obviously exist. So if the bill is voted on as a basic basis, I'm sorry, but we're going to insist that we don't accept it as a whole, because we're going to propose amendments to it to close all the gaps that remain, again and again, with all due respect for our colleagues, during the drafting of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u557	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Road Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u558	Please pass the word to Bezgin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u559	National MP Bezgin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u560	Briefly, colleagues, I will not steal much of our time. Roman Lozinski of Justice has clearly pointed out the problem, the bill decides it, let's not discuss it too much, vote on the basis and in general, and support the basic bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u561	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, there is a proposal to vote as a basis and as a whole, but we vote in turn, on the basis that if there are objections, we will shorten the terms. Okay, there's a denial, I heard them. Therefore, dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on improving the order of the permanent suspension of the powers of the village, the city head (project registration number 5241). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[18:21:52]] For 270. Decision taken. There was an offer in general, the "Fatherland" faction against. Therefore, honourable colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, put to the vote the proposal to cut back on the proposal and amendments and prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 5241). This is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the order of the early termination of the powers of the country, village, and city heads. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[18:22:36]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and today’s final bill (registration number 5572). This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Effective Administration of Property Rights of Owners in Copyright and (or) Neighbouring Rights on the provision of income collection by collective management organizations. Is there a need to discuss this bill, or can we vote? Vote? Vote, yes. Dear colleagues, then I make an offer. Oh, no? "CLAIMS" against already. So I'm going to propose that we look at this in a simplified way. Please support and vote. [[18:23:34]] For 241 Decision taken. I invite the rapporteur for the Ukrainian National Deputy Mikita Ruslanović Poturayeva. Please, Mikita Ruslanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u562	Dear colleagues! I want to tell you a very simple story. Once Ukrainian music was in the band, then the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian authorities, made a fateful, affirmative decision about quotas and Ukrainian music became a lot on the radio, in the television air, it was very good. Ukrainian music was strengthened, put on its feet, and began to understand, and what really happens to its copyright and adjacent rights. Here our creators found out that every bracelet they made was to be made. Here, the bracelet anyone can imagine, right? From each bracelet of corporate governance organizations, 20 copies are given to foreign labelers, managers, publishers and so on, it's normal. Because we have Western music everywhere in our facilities. How many do you think are coming to the Ukrainian performer? I might surprise you a little bit, but 10, 15 copies, tops, from the bracelet. Where's the rest? 60 percent or 55 percent of the profit. That's an interesting question, I'm sure the law enforcement authorities will give him an estimate of their time. But the point is that this law will allow normal, conscientious organizations to work and give money to Ukrainian contractors and authors. They're not conscientious, they're just competitive, I'm sure they'll leave the market. This is the whole idea of this law. I ask him to support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u563	Thank you, Mikita Ruslanovich. The word is given to the head of the Economic Development Committee's committee, Hanni Vasili Lichman, please, Hanna Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u564	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Economic Development, at its meeting on 30 September, considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Effective Management of Property Rights of Owners in Copyright and Neighbouring Rights on the provision of income collection from collective management organizations (registration number 5572) by Pouturiev and Sanchenk People's Deputies. The purpose of the bill, as stated in the explanatory note, is to unlock the activities of the collective management organization in the areas of public execution and public notification of musical, non-dramatic and non-negative works and avoid negative consequences, to end the payment of royalty for Ukrainian artists and the world copyright community. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion of September 29, 2021, comments on the bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, in its conclusion of June 30, 2021, notes that the bill will not have an impact on the budget indicators and, if adopted, may take effect within the time limit proposed by the drafters. As a result of the discussion by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the members of the Committee on Economic Development decided to introduce a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the effective administration of property rights of rightholders in the field of copyright and neighbouring rights, with regard to the provision of income collection by organizations of collective governance for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to recommend that the results of the first reading be taken as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u565	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there was a need for two factions to discuss. Please sign in: two in, two in. If anyone else wants to, too. But it is highly desirable that we conclude today’s plenary session. And you want to add something else. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, faction of the political party "Golos". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u566	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u567	Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u568	Dear colleagues, the "Justice" union will clearly support this bill. What's more, we think it's time to hear that one hundred of the greatest artists and creative industry that's been walking and explaining to us for over a year, where the money goes, where it goes, and why doesn't any of it come? Or 10, 15 in mathematics showed Mr. Mikita, even they don't get to any of the other artists and so on. And what's happening today is actually absolutely fictitious, with catalogues that are published and shown, who's listening, not exactly "The Buttercup" listening to Lviv and Market Square, but completely different songs and music, and the fact that these costs don't come to performers, it's totally embarrassing and strange. It would have been a long time before we actually went to electronic. In an electronic system where any performer or author of words could come in, see where and what is being done, what costs he has to receive, who and where, which city, restaurant listens and so on and so on and so forth. And the thing is, when we come in, he wants to tax and go to the big festivals and get rid of it. Guys, come on, it's a lot of money. I want to remind you that, actually, out of 500 million about plus-minus, which, in principle, can actually go into this whole industry, just show publicly 70 million. So this is an area in which very few people have entered, and I thank all those performers, authors of words and music and so on, who have finally dug up and shown this whole scheme, which clearly and directly brings these costs out of the hands not only of the budget, but also of the performers and the authors. That's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u569	Thank you. The word is given to national deputy Kostuk Dmitry Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u570	Please pass the word to Sanchez Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u571	Please, Sanchenko Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u572	Sanchenko Alexander, Servant of the People. Colleagues, I'll try as soon as I can. This bill is supported by both the information committee headed by Dmitry Nataluh and the Ministry of Culture, Information Policy and Mert. This bill has huge support for authors and publishing societies such as Widlik, MOZGI GROUP, Mamamusic, Brinza Music, Presscom, such as Antillia, Go_A, Valery Harchisin, TNMK, Green Grey, YARMAK, Krychytka, radio stations and the largest groups of TAVR Media, Ukrainian mediaholding, and Luks, UA "Social", "Lvivish Wave", VITA, "Takt", "Veja", "Veja", "Kanal 402", the country's largest festivals, such as Atlas Weekend, Fine City, Zaxidfest, Bandershtadt, Bezz, "Cornomorski", RadioDay and others, as well as the Ukrainian restaurant association and National Association. Accordingly, he has the support of those steakholders for whom we make him. We strongly ask you to support this bill. This is a chance for our Ukrainian musicians to receive a fair reward for their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u573	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavelka Jurija Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life"
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u574	Dear colleagues, this bill is an example of how the silence of the day at the end of the working day, when information is misinterpreted, tries to spread under beautiful, seemingly patriotic slogans a purely lobbyist law that has very serious corruption risks. And unfortunately, we don't have a profile committee conclusion. Regrettably, the bill does not in any way protect the performers, artists, or those who produce the Ukrainian product. On the contrary, this bill is designed to support those who have been stealing all the years of Ukrainian executioners and who today do not pay the Royalts to Ukrainian performers for Ukrainian works. And unfortunately, this bill wants to destroy those first little sprouts of a transparent, open system when Ukrainian performers finally started to get little money for their works. Why is it that they do not receive the Royalty for almost a year? But not because the legislation is bad, but because the process was blocked by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. He's been unlocked, but now that payments have begun to be made to the performers, some people who want to sit on these corruption streams have decided by law to redirect them to themselves and rob a Ukrainian artist again. I believe that the bill should be sent for further processing, and that the reason for its existence is no longer there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u575	Thank you. Excuse me, Nataluha's right of reply, one minute. After that, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies, take your seats. Natalie, a minute, right on the line. And then Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u576	Thank you. My colleagues, I just wanted to draw your attention to the fact that when we talk about protecting a national manufacturer, we usually imagine factories or productions. But that's exactly what this law is about. It's a law protecting the Ukrainian producer of music, it's a law on the localization of Ukrainian music, if you want. This is the law on the right of Ukrainian authors and performers to receive money here in Ukraine for their creativity and for their activities. So please support this bill. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u577	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please, "European Solidarity." And then we go to the vote. Please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u578	Thank you. I'm asking you to pass the word to Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u579	Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u580	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. As early as May 2018, Bill 2415 laid down the rules of play as part of the national intellectual property reform and the Royalty Act. The requirements of the World Intellectual Property Organization and the international community of collective copyright management are 120 countries in the world and more than 232 copyright societies are also EU directives. This is the base that was used when the big reform took place. At the same time, secondly, the Ministry of Economics has made clear, quite recently, the findings of the bill that we are considering today. It is, in fact, both meaningful and correct. This conclusion rightly states that today’s problem, which has risen, is created artificially and does not solve the issue in the future. At first glance, this bill seems to solve all the problems, but if you look deeper, it simply encourages the continuation of the internal problems that exist in the interaction of the so-called two organizations among themselves. As a person who knows little about these nuances, I would like to see the laws that have been written consistently, balanced, with profound meaning, not as a result of the manipulation of pressure. Clearly, it would be better to send it back to re-reading, but we have consulted, and between the first and second readings, we will maximize the effectiveness of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-19-m0.u581	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill and we are now going to the vote. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Effective Management of Property Rights of Owners in Copyright and (or) Complementary Rights on the Ensuring of the Collection of Income from Rights by Collective Management Organizations (project registration number 5572). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[18:37:13]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one more second. There's an offer. In line with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut down half the deadlines for the submission of proposals, amendments and preparations for the second reading of the bill (registration number 5572), the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Effective Management of Property Rights of Owners in Copyright and (or) Neighbouring Rights, on the provision of income collection from collective management organizations. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[6:37:57]] For 215 The decision is not taken. We didn't cut the line. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock. Thank you. We've worked very hard.
