ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! Dear fellow Members, please prepare for electronic registration. I remind you, once the registration is started, you have to hold the sensor button, press the "Z" button, or the first button on the left, and keep these two buttons at the same time until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:02:00]] There are 189 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear people's deputies, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, the Other Romanovna Sowsun, the Voice faction, let's welcome, and Mariana Bogdanovich Zablotsky, "Serve of the People," let's welcome. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Tuesday for statements by authorized representatives of MPs and groups to make proposals, announcements, statements, and reports. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups. The word is given to the Ukrainian National MP Igorovni, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Boyka, please. Yuri Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u2	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The key issue of this plenary week is the presentation of the budget for next year. But when I saw this draft budget, I started to have this kind of rain because it's been completely repeating the budgets of the last eight years, the budgets of the previous government and the budgets of today's government for the last two years. In fact, the adoption of such budgets has led to the fact that half of Ukraine’s citizens have been out of poverty in the last few years. I believe that this budget needs immediate change because it is anti-national and does not suit the interests of Ukrainian citizens. And in the last two years, we've seen the marathon of promises made by the already active president and the overpowered coalition that have failed. We were promised peace in Donbas, we were promised a reduction in municipal tariffs, we were promised a fight against poverty. All of this remained unfulfilled. We don't have peace on Donbass. We're just growing utility tariffs. And taking into account the rise in prices and the decline in social poverty. Social benefits, we don't have a fight against poverty, and we have a further submergment of our people into this disgraceful phenomenon. And all of this together is called the same phrase, which is the anti-national policy of active power. "The Opposition Platform for Life," our political power, has a clear position on the key issues that are important to society, people. We feel that we need to negotiate, not shoot, and we have the political will to pursue peace. We know how to reduce municipal tariffs: because all the domestic energy needs to go to the people, to the needs of our citizens. We demand that state price regulation be introduced for the goods of the first necessity, which is very important for people. And we're going to stand up for these positions because that's what our people need. We're going to fight for these positions to be realized and our people really get the support of our parliamentarians, the state. And that's all that's state position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u3	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Volodymyrovich Shahov, MP "Trust". Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u4	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! Over the past week, the members of our group, Trust, have been approached by a great many representatives of local self-governance bodies, ordinary people about energy tariffs. The situation with budgetary institutions is particularly catastrophic, and the local authorities do not know what to do or how to do this heating season. In the formation of local budgets for 2021, communities planned to burn utilities at the price of the previous heating season, but gas prices increased by 2.5 times. Today we have a situation where the cost of Ukrainian gas is about 2.6 dollars per cubic meter, and, for example, the territorial communities of Poltavščina, which I represent in Parliament where this gas is produced, are forced to buy 26 or 30 bracelets, that is, at the price of European hubs. There is no budget allocation in the community, and again there is no resource. And to cover the difference in tariffs, local budgets are estimated to require subsidies from the state budget of 15 to 16 billion dollars for this heating season. By the way, in the 2022 budget project, there's no amount of subsidies available for tariff alignment. Let us also keep in mind the debts of past years. On September 14th, the total debt owed to the thermal utility companies to NAC Naftogaz amounts to 57 billion dollars. Of these, in the 21st year, 22 billion dollars, or 35 billion dollars, are debts of the past year. Another problem is that the municipal property budget institutions can't go to NAC Naftogazu as the supplier of the "last hope," because there's no legal mechanism for that. Another important problem I would like to raise is the work of social protection agencies. In January 21st, the National Service was in operation. Its organs have only begun to work at the district level since August, but none of the 42 government social programs implemented by social protection agencies have yet been transferred to the district level. And today it's a complete failure. An authority that does only control functions, while professional experts working with humans have been reduced by 35 percent. That's why we're turning from "Trust" to government with specific requirements. The first is a subsidy to local communities to cover the difference in tariffs. Providing legal capacity for the transition of budgetary institutions to the "last hope" provider. The average tariff for gas for utilities. Restoring the normal functioning of social protection agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u5	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Taras Ivanovich Batenka, the parliamentary group Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u6	Honorable Presidium, Honourable Ruslan Alexiyovich, Honorable Colleagues of National Deputies! Realizing that this parliamentary week will be very difficult, since we will consider the results of the Conciliation Council bills and the oligarchs, and the draconian tax bill 5,600, we call for a parliamentary group not to form a volt rainbow of tension in Parliament, to preserve internal parliamentary democracy, to protect the right of deputies to express their position and the right of legislative initiative enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine. Because we didn't like yesterday's repulsion by one of the heads of the parliamentary committee, I don't want to call it his last name, which he said is that democracy turns out to be the power of the majority, not the power of the people or of the people. That's an interesting understanding of democracy, and we'll come a long way with that understanding, my friends. For us, democracy is when absolute power is no one, it's when there's a system of deterrence and opposites. Because otherwise, it's dictatorship and authoritarianism, and that's something you need to remember, first of all, most of all, "the servants of the people." I want to say the same thing about other events that took place this week, including in Ukraine. We've seen Russia continue the hybrid war against Ukraine, massing residents of the occupied areas of Donbas in the State Duma in the elections to the Rostov region. In doing so, the reaction of the Ukrainian authorities is twofold. In the official information field, in the statements that are being made in the Supreme Council, we condemn and demand that such a State Duma be declared illegal. But at the same time, we're opening voting stations in our territory, in consular institutions, referring to international agreements that the Russian Federation would like to infuse on these international treaties. We are now discussing how many votes the party of power has taken in the State Duma of the Russian Federation. We are in favour of taking the appropriate decision in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which condemns these elections to the so-called State Duma of Russia, but we are also against cognitive dissonance in the ruling heads of Ukraine. Equally, colleagues, we propose to the Supreme Council a different decision, a draft regulation 6001, which calls for recognition of both the FSB and the Russian Federation's GUR by terrorist organizations engaged in the destabilisation and disintegration of our country, supporting the diversification and terrorist activities of quasi-State entities called LNR and DNR. And so we will once again show that we stand in the defense of Ukraine's national interests and are able to face the challenges facing our Ukrainian state today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u7	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Majeschovich Mikoli Romanovich. Irina Volodymyr, please, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u8	Dear Ukrainians! A year and a half ago, Banka betrayed Ukrainian intelligence, betrayed our spies, effectively failed a unique special operation, and handed Putin 33 assassins. Today, the Special Forces are betraying you, "ministers", discrediting the very idea of civilian parliamentary control. Instead of the TSK, you created a "stupid TSN" -- a "people's" party that works to wash the Bank's laundry away from the mud you've been in with a special operation called "vagners". I want to remind you that this "crazy TSN" a week ago came out with a paper written in Banks, where she read that there was no operation, but there were only intentions, it was all Dusty's fault. And then TSN, in full stock with its hostess, ran away when the scouts came to this party, those who were involved in the development of the operation, those who directly testified that Poroshenko was giving such instructions to start it, and those who had said the key: yes, who was in the bank room that year, who heard details about the beginning of the last phase of the special operation, and eventually who was the mole who handed it all over to Banks. Tell me, please, you who live under 20/30/50, do you know that today the Ukrainian army, which protects you every day, does not get paid. If the Ukrainian army complained for two years that Zelenski had stopped paying her wages, they stopped paying today. It's your shame that a half billion dollars of debt for which is for fighting, for things, compensation for renting homes. Do you understand what compensation is given to the Supreme Council day after day for living in hotels here, what is comfortable about a soldier and an officer who receives $2,000 from the state for renting an apartment for them (not just in Kiev – in Hmelnicki, in Reveny, nowhere where the base of our soldiers' deployment is actually located, on Donbassa, you can't rent an apartment for this money today), so they don't pay for three months. Aren't you ashamed? That's why we're really demanding the creation of the TSC, not the "ministers of the people" to which the opposition will enter. You have a conflict of interest, you wash out traitors from the Bank. The other one. We're calling for a closed meeting of the Supreme Council, where we hear what's happening to the Ukrainian army, like they're not paying them money today. You don't pay what day-to-day payments you get, all payments: both MPs, and wages, and rents. You're making a budget for the 22nd year, where you're rebalancing the police state: the S.B.I., the D.B.I., you're raising wages -- you're trying to humiliate the army again. In fact, we won't let you do that, and of course, all traitors have to go to "state betrayal" today for responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u9	The word is given to National Deputy Kira Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u10	Good morning! Last week, I and my colleagues from the Voice Party met with representatives of business associations: the Ukrainian Business Council, the European Business Association, the Association of Ukrainian Entrepreneurs. Together, they unite thousands of entrepreneurs and their coworkers. We talked about what we need to do the day before the shipdown so that anyone who wants to work can do it peacefully. We talked about the fact that the authorities care about entrepreneurs for the rest of the principle -- only when they go out on the street or they start to shut themselves down. I address everyone who has a business to attend to. The Voice party represents you in Parliament. If you have a shop or a law firm, or a coffee shop, or you're a programmer or a hairdresser, the Voice party stands for your interest. We were the first ones to offer to allow vaccines to work in the meadow because I remember very well every call last year, every unfulfilled plan, loan taken, and a failed project. I remember going out on the street to the entrepreneur of Lvivščina, who left the authorities without pants. And I promised I would do everything I could to keep this from happening this year. Anyone who wants to work and follows the rules should be able to do so. And that's just the first step. The next steps are these. Repeal the EU and tax checks during the lockdown. This worked very well last year, and we demand that we repeat it this year. Our spring proposal lies in Parliament and waits for its time. To warn you about the nocdownon, this proposal is already working, and the Voice party was also the initiator of it. Step three is an additional 10 billion dollars to support enterprises during the lockdown. I made such changes to my 2021 budget to Parliament yesterday. They will allow less pressure on business under restrictions. When they're reviewing the budget, when they're forming a new one, when you're discussing rules or benefits, I'm always asking myself, and where are the entrepreneurs, where is the small and medium-sized business, where is everyone who makes money, who doesn't go, who does their business in Ukraine? From ancient times the business manifesto to the state was "don't touch us." Unfortunately, it's extremely difficult to do this now because of the bowdown, but if the rules are introduced, they're fair, they're understandable, and they've been warned in advance. That's the top priority of Voice right now: to make sure that everyone who has their own business, hers or his business survive the anchor without losing, where they need to, get help and they can do and work on ours, move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u11	The word is given to National Deputy Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrni, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, there is everything in this room: a beautiful rostrum, beautiful chairs, buttons, and even MPs. Why isn't this room just chronic? There's no interest in people, there's just no Ukrainian nation here, because they're completely erased from everything the Supreme Council does. I can tell you that I, along with the faction, have carefully studied the order of the day for today and this week. The demeaning, lobbyist agenda, where the Labour Code begins to be destroyed, where people who work for the last eight - hour work day are deprived of the opportunity to go on vacation, to have two holidays, to be translated into a contract, to virtually nullify the role of trade unions in the state, and many other corruptions are accepted in this order of the day. But it is not entirely true that inflation in the country today has reached such a limit that 50 percent of Ukrainian income goes to food, in Germany, for a comparison of 10 percent. It is not said that people can no longer survive on what you leave them. And in the budget for the following year, the age of poverty continues again in its entirety. Our faction drove through the raigas and saw what was happening to the tariffs. I want to inform you that people need to get these 7.99 pledge bracelets per kilowatt. For a cubic meter, make a deal with the last-hop provider. One inspector has tens of thousands of people in the raiga, and they have concluded 300 to 500 for this minute. This means that people, first of all, don't know what they need to do to get even a high price for gas, and second of all, no raigas, no misgas can serve people to make all the deals. Local budgets push for complete bankruptcy, forcing them to compensate for the difference in tariffs on heat. Chaos in a country that people call "bardak" has reached its climax. But in this room people, their interests, their pain, their poverty is gone. There's a distribution, there's a derivative of the budget, there's a decrease in human rights, there's a closure of social policy. Stop doing that! Either parliament will return to the service of the people and Ukraine, or such a parliament is simply not needed by Ukraine, nor with any speaker. So go back to your real life and to your people!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u13	The word is given to the national MP, Mr. Getmantsev Danil Aleksandrovitch, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, a little over two years ago, we came to Parliament for programmatic purposes. Program number one was the people of the nation. The people are the "Serves of the People" program. The people's government is when the Nadra is owned by the people and the people get a fair share of the exploitation of these nadr and the production. The people's government is when there's a redistribution in the country of national income, and there's no situation where one gets rich three times, and the pensioners get pensions of 2,000 dollars. People rule is a law for all, not for the people one, but for those who have political influence in one hand, media and great property, the other or not at all. For 30 years the state has been struggling with what we all call an oligarhat. For 30 years, the oligarchs have grown stronger and stronger, richer and richer. We pretend to fight it, not fight it. And then, when those laws appear in the Supreme Council, those initiatives that really hit the old system that really break the oligarhat, we face obstacles, artificial obstacles, and tremendous resistance to this system. There are 11.5,000 amendments to the law, which cannot be considered at all in the Supreme Council Hall, which removes the oligarch’s benefits. 11.5,000 rights don't allow us to look at the simplified procedure. On the other hand, we mention the rules of the Rules, which also seem to impede the consideration of drafts in the Hall, which 54 times since the beginning of this year, have been violated by us when we consider other less important bills for oligarchs. Again, the simplified procedure is blocked. But we understand that oligarhat is evil, it's a system where success is not wiser, it's not more work-loving, it's more successful. It is a system of communication, a system of corruption that needs to be broken. And we have to break it and break it, regardless of resistance. And the "Serial of the People" faction stands in a consistent and clear position against the oligarhat, not in words, but in action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u15	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, there's been an announcement to take a break with the replacement for the performance. But before I give my word to the national deputy Dmitri, I want to go to the hall. Dear colleagues, the coronavirus has not disappeared. I'm asking you very much, though, that we follow the basic steps of epidemiological safety so that we can keep wearing masks. So I strongly urge all factions, all groups to work with the National Deputies to show by our example how we should resist the Coronavirus epidemics. Thank you, colleagues. Dear friends, I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u16	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Thousands of Ukrainian patients struggle every day for their lives. Someone's struggling with COVID, someone's struggling with cancer, and someone's struggling with orthodontic diseases. And the result of this disease depends not only on the doctor but also on access to medicines. For many patients, access to innovative drugs is the only chance to be saved. Now, for example, more than a million patients are oncological or have a history of cancer. On average, the state spends about 25 dollars on the treatment of one citizen with innovative drugs. It's very small. Innovative drugs are very valuable, and not everyone can afford treatment. Such stories depend very much on the family’s ability to raise the needed amount in time. I'm sure it can't be that way. The state has every opportunity to enable the patient to focus on treatment rather than on the congregation’s funds. In order to help those who are on the ground in Ukraine, it is not enough to hear them, so we need to get the practical tools that are already in place on an urgent basis. One of them is the amendments to the Public Procurement Act, which introduces contracts for managed access to government procurement. Bill 4662 is a real help to our Ukrainians. It is in the hall today, and I very much ask you to support it in the second reading and in general. I am now addressing you, on the second and third floors, together with the National Cancer Institute, the Public Association of the Coalition of Oncopies of Ukraine, together with the initiative "Year of Knowledge of Lung Cancer" prepared the installation "Life on Paper." Thanks to virtual reality, projections, and interactive zones, paper installations in the form of rooms will recover and transfer you to the real home of the oncopiers. These installations are made from memories of oncopaciants, statistics, and cancer laws in Ukraine. These papers, on which are the lives of those who are on the sick, are papers that are so numerous in everyone’s life. So I invite you to take a break into the pools so that you can see for yourself how the oncropians live and hear the stories of their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished the factions, we've finished the speech as a substitute for the break, and the list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making is given to you today. So let's move on to their consideration. The first issue today is the draft Order on Change in the Order of the Day of the Sixth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (project registration number 5893 - 2). Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? In summary, this is discussed in accordance with the Rules. That's why I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, faction of the political party "Golos". Please, Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u19	Jurchisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u20	Jurchisin Jaroslav, Justice Union. In fact, on the other hand, we are witnessing when there are no extremely important bills included in the agenda. We still don't see the bill in fact on the selection procedure of the head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. We don't see a bill set by the President-priority on the elimination of the District Administrative Court. And the court is still amazed. In principle, it is very evident that it is at this very time that the judges continue to block judicial reform and then take away justice from our citizens. So, in principle, why are such important bills, defined by the President as urgent, and still not in the agenda? And then, in principle, there's no voting for these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u22	Sobolje, Fatherland. For our faction, there are a number of fundamental issues on which we insist not on the first month. The same was true of the last Conciliation Council. Well, how can we not address the issue of self-sustainment of the population and the municipal gas sector? While the estimated gas price at this trend is expected for 20 dollars, almost 4 times compared to what we have today. How can we not support the proposal to effectively regulate tariff policies in the gas sector, in electricity? How can we not support our proposal to raise the minimum level of living, the minimum wage, the more before voting on the draft budget for the 22nd year? Regrettably, even a list of these brief questions, and we're only bringing up six dozen of the most important issues, are not included in the agenda. Instead, we see proposals that apply to either the narrow circle of oligarchs, and this is called the anti-oligaric law, or the proposals that apply, how do we not continue to pay taxes to those who avoid taxes, and the whole tax pressure translates into small and medium-sized businesses. For our faction, there are a number of fundamental issues that will be a beacon for us, whether this Parliament is in favour of supporting citizens, supporting small businesses, supporting those who are doing everything they can today to bring order, including customs, or those proposals that are actually far from living. Our faction will not vote for these changes in the order of the day. We offered a whole package of changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u23	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Zinkevich Jani Vadimovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u25	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two years ago you lied to our political team and came to power on the slogans of new faces, compliance with the Rules. And what do we see now? Those who promised to keep the Rules did not give out a table of amendments on time in ten days. So we demand that all the bills that will be in the agenda of this session be amended on time, especially when it comes to such scandalous bills as 5,600, which place the knees, not the oligarchs, but the Ukrainian small and medium-sized business that you want to see for your envelopes, program 20/30/50. We also want to remind you that all factions have a proportional right to form the order of the day, and we as the opposition faction have never seen our laws in the daytime order in these two years. We're asking you to put 6006 into the agenda immediately. You don't have a program to spend on the state, on the Ukrainians, who have been put on your head by the grace of the IMF, with which you, by the way, have promised not to cooperate in your "Serial of the People" series. So right now this IMF gives you 2.7 billion dollars, the people of Ukraine, you want to steal them. And we suggest that these funds go into debt to the military, which you don't pay today, to the doctors who stopped leaving, and other things. And the second is the TSC, not the crazy TSN by the Wagnerians. Excuse me, you're betraying today, after Banking, our security services, our army, our spies, and this should receive an appropriate parliamentary response. This should be created by the TSC as a control mechanism where opposition is to be present, and the opposition has been proposing for 13 months to create a TSK within the framework of parliamentary control of what took place on Banks for treason. We immediately demand that this be put in order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u27	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Makarenko Mikhail Vasilovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u28	Mr. Chairman, please pass the word to Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u29	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I am addressing you first. You probably know about the situation at the Institute of Nuclear Studies of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, where from 15 to 30 November, workers were sent to the Institute on unpaid leave due to the lack of funds to pay their salaries. This issue, in my opinion, should also be addressed by budgetary changes and not only in this institution, but also in general in the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, at the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences, at other sectoral institutes. This time. One second. I can't help but notice that we have a total of 3.9 billion dollars to pay off. It should also include appropriate changes in overpayments of wages. Third. I can't help but react to that jar you're offering, it's not even zero, it's negative. Because those bills that are being proposed are causing direct economic damage to the national economy. Well, I can't help but answer the MPs from the most prooligaric party that initiates bills that, for example, from the last one, I can give you dozens of examples that have removed the excise on green energy or raised the rent on ore and so on and so forth and so on and so forth. So you're like the most prooligarchy party, it's already your inner kitchen, you'll be like you're putting the laws right in the agenda. But we're interested in having an economic effect on the national economy, on the people, on the fair distribution that you're all talking about, but you're taking steps to the contrary. For example, I'm going to report the last moment -- that's excise for green energy. And lastly, what we're talking about and what we'd like to say. A fair proportional distribution according to the number of mandates. There should be a list of the bills that should be implemented and counted on these principles and on these figures. So we're not going to be a faction to support this draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, would anyone like to speak? I see. I'm going to ask the national deputies to come to the hall, and then we're going to vote. While I give the floor to Anton Eduardoovich, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u32	It was very interesting, colleagues, to listen to the head of the financial committee who was there telling us today that they are firmly in the forward fight against the oligarchs. We all Ukrainians saw it at the last football match, as the "ministers of the people" fought hard against the oligarchs, and at which the front they stood. If you really wanted to work for Ukraine, the agenda would be different, and we wouldn't be wasting our time on this fine law of fighting the oligarchs. Indeed, the legislative initiatives that would reduce tariffs, increase pensions and, indeed, add some value to the lives of our Ukrainians. That's why we don't support these changes in the daytime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u33	Thank you. Nobody wants to say anything else. Therefore, honourable members of the national parliament, I am voting on a draft decree amending the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (project registration number 5893 - 2). Ready to vote? Ready? Dear colleagues, then I ask you to support and vote. [[10:40:08]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. The next issue we have on schedule is the re-reading of Bill 5454. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the passage of periods of appeal for administrative and other services during quarantine. This, I would like to stress, came again on September 15, 2021, the first reading, the amended law, with the presentation of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. It takes 150 votes to make a decision. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:41:19]] For 216 Decision taken. The word is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the organization of state authority, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of Bilozur Larissa Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u34	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! The bill has been prepared by the Committee of State Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization to implement the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on Re-reading the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the passing of periods of appeal for administrative and other services during quarantine. In short, the purpose of this bill is finally to restore the provision of some administrative services to people and businesses by government authorities and officials. There have been cases where, according to a bill that we passed last March, some government authorities are delaying the provision of administrative services, and people and businesses do not really understand the terms or sometimes receive the services they need. Thus, when the bill was drafted, it took into account the proposals made by national deputies and the GNEU, according to which citizens are entitled to apply or not to apply for quarantine, but these appeals must be considered by the authorities. Thus, the Committee's draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final Position Act of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine aimed at preventing the emergence and spread of coronary disease in relation to the passage of terms of reference (54544) is proposed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the outcome of the review in the re-first reading to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Should the bill be adopted, it should be finalized with the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u35	Thank you, Larissa Mikolayevna. It was your performance, both as an initiator and as a committee. Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the national deputy Kloczko Andriy Andriyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u36	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. The bill is very important today, so I ask him to support it, because he takes into account many questions of ordinary people who can't get answers to the questions that they're sending to the public authorities. Dear colleagues, I ask you to gather yourself, a little quieter in the hall and still support this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u37	The word is given to the National Deputy of Germany, Vasil Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u38	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, this bill provides for the non-restriction of time limits and everything else during the coronavirus period. Perhaps we should talk about the preparation of the Ministry of Health or the preparation of the executive branch. That we have limitations and very important limitations in our country. So I would like to see everything published in this bill, precisely because of this bill. And the second. You can't keep people in a closed room, they don't have any information. And the third. I would like to say, my fellow believers, remember when they came to us about the coronavirus vaccinations, where they put the medical brigade next to the toilet, next to the toilet, where the people's deputies were vaccinated, who could have laughed so much, I don't know, but I'd like to say that the national deputy, he's a national politician, who's carrying out the orders and orders of voters in the conditions of our country's people. If we recognize that the people are the authority of most of our factions, monofractions, then let's say we are quietly building a dictatorship. And it's bound, by the way, by this law. Look at the restrictions, the restrictions will apply primarily to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u39	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Nemiri Grigori Mihajlovich, a faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u41	Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u42	Sobolje, Fatherland. What's this bill about? Our faction will certainly support it. This bill allows all citizens who have completed or completed the deadline for the granting of administrative services to continue this period of quarantine automatically. This actually applies to all of the administrations, and in our view, this is a very timely decision, the faction will support it, but it has to be a complex decision that does not only apply to the administration. If the government understands that the country is entering a new, rather difficult period of quarantine, that the restrictions that will apply may be either on a level or perhaps even more serious than before, it should be prepared by the government as a comprehensive bill that will address the impossibility of missing terms, such as referring to the courts. If citizens can't, what's more, in this period of chaos, when the judiciary is actually forced to go and follow the spirit of the law, and to this day actually reorient the courts according to the new administrative division, we need to adopt a comprehensive legislative act that won't actually allow citizens to miss those terms that apply to appeals actually on all occasions. That's why we're going to think that's the first step. The faction supports it, we vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u43	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Lopushanski Andrija Jaroslavovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u44	May I have the floor to Arthur Gerasimov?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u45	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Of course, we will support this bill, but only on the first reading. Let me explain why. Because it is important for us to make sure that when preparing for the second, we do not let the citizens get hurt again. Because the goal is actually a good bill, but, you know, we're used to any kind of "servicing" bill, maybe there's some small line that citizens are suffering from. But if you essentially look at what this bill is about, it's about nice things, but why? Because we don't seem to have COVID anymore, we don't have quarantine, and so on. But 5,000 159 -- that's how many new cases we have today, 137 -- that's how many people died in the day, and they've only died in official statistics by more than 55,000 people than COVID. And you know that experts and experts say that the statistics are very low and this figure is much higher than 100,000 people. And besides, we all see the government's decision, which is now being prepared to increase quarantine and is preparing even for the introduction of certain lockdowns. But, of course, we're going to support the bill, but I would like to say that if you're writing an explanation, when you're writing the reason why you want to do it, please analyze the situation, but don't just write it from the ceiling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u47	Thank you. He also asked us with the motives of Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, Voice. Anyone else? All right, I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u48	Roman Lozinski, “Justice. ” Dear colleagues, in this room we should remember that Ukrainians live not only in the center of Kiev, not only in the center of large cities but also in small communities, in rural areas, in mountain areas. And what we all call "decentralisation" is to remember that one of the basics of decentralization is quality and affordable services, it's quick help, it's to forget to travel all day to the district centers, to other centers to get their legal documents. Clearly, then, this bill needs to be supported. Services to people need to be drawn closer. The quality of services needs to be raised. But neither should we. We have a lot of communities where we need to build up CNAPs, raise wages for employees, and improve the quality of services themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u49	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy Krachod Annie. And then there's Larissa Bilozer, and then I'm going to ask the national MPs to come to the hall, and we're going to vote. Anna Speedboat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, we have already discussed this bill, and it really needs to be adopted. Moreover, he is perfectly equipped with our colleagues. And that's why there's an offer to take immediately in general. The parliamentary group "For the Future" supports this bill, and let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u51	Please move on, Larissa Bilozer. And then we go to the vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote on the basis as a whole. This bill waits for people, waits for business. Because, remember, he had to be accepted a year ago. As early as March of last year, we actually stopped the antiquities of the first law not only from turning people and business but also from providing services. And this is used by non-lethal government officials, delaying the provision of services both for business and for people. So I'm still asking that we actually return the clear, let's say, terms of reference. Officials on the spot get paid, work, why shouldn't they provide certain services? So I ask once again to support my colleague as a whole. And there we give exactly 30 more days for these public authorities to gather together and provide those services instead of delaying them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u53	Thank you, Larissa Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for the committee to accept as a basis and as a whole with the necessary technical and legal rights. But first I'm going to lay the groundwork, and then I'm going to ask if there's any objection, and I'm going to put it all together. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts regarding the passage of periods of appeal for administrative and other services during quarantine, which is a re-reading (project registration number 5454). I'm voting on the adoption of this project as a basis. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:54:54]] For 313 Decision taken. After that, if there's no objection in the room, I'm putting in place this bill as a whole with the necessary technical and legal rights. This is about a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the passage of time periods for administrative and other services during quarantine (project number 5454). Ready to vote? Once again, it's already in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations. Please support and vote. [[10:55:38]] For 319 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we still have two bills, but I have just been informed that the committee has not yet completed them. So there's a request to miss them and move on, and after the committee's decision, we'll go back to their consideration. No objections? I won't. We go to Bill 4662, this is the draft Act amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement on the provision of access contracts (second reading). It's a table. To the rostrum, the head of the Committee on Economic Development is invited to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, are there those who will insist on repairs? Is that right? Now, one second, I'm gonna find this bill, one second. Anyone who insists, please show me. I see. The "voice" is going to be, right? What is your correction? I'm sorry, I don't see who that is. Then let's go to the repairs, I get it, yeah. 3 Corrections, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 4th Amendment, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 5th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 7th, Puzichuk. Don't insist. 8th, Dubnov. Don't insist. 9th, Stefanisina. Is he insisting? Please turn it on. Stefani's.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I represent the "Justice" union. Olga Stefanisin. I want to tell you that this bill is, in fact, overwhelming and today all patients are watching how the Supreme Council will vote for it. We expected him to be in Parliament in the spring, but there were risks that even the Economic Policy Committee would not support him. I was there myself and convinced the deputies to vote for him. This bill will help those with severe orphan diseases, cancers, diabetes, and other serious diseases to finally receive cures from the State. I'm not going to insist on this amendment because I understand that any discussion on this bill can stop it, so I'm very much asking all my colleagues to mobilize now and give the maximum number of votes for this important bill for patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u55	Thank you. No one's going to insist anymore. This was the last amendment that could be made. So, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations a draft law amending Chapter X of the Law on Public Procurement, entitled "Towards and Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act to ensure the possibility of purchasing medical devices under controlled access contracts. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[10:59:23]] For 309 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. The next draft law is the first reading, Bill 5388, 5388-1. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on labour regulation. The project was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the alternative was introduced by the national deputy Yvchenk. Yes, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to vote on this issue under a reduced procedure. And I remind you that it takes 150 votes. So please support and vote. [[11:00:19]] For 240 Decision taken. I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Economy Glushchenko Svetlan Volodymyrovna. Dear colleagues, where is the representative of the Ministry? I would like to ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine to draw attention to the presentation of the bills submitted by the government to Parliament regarding the presence of representatives who should report them. But we'll do it another way. I give the floor to the author of the alternative bill to the Ukrainian National Deputy Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich. Please, Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u56	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, this is the first time I've seen a representative not coming from the government to defend a government bill. It's a disgrace! And you all have to turn to the government for that. It's disrespect for Parliament. First. The other one. My colleagues, you're being approached by the Secretary General of the International Confederation of Work, Sharon Barrow. 200 million people are members of this confederation, the European Confederation of Labour, 45 million people. They prepared a joint letter to the President, to the Head of the Supreme Council, to the Minister of Social Policy. They speak of the inadmissibility of adopting laws that conflict with international labour standards. Among the laws they talk about is Bill 5388. Colleagues, we worked together with the Federation of Trades to draft a bill that actually deals with labour relations under employment contracts. For these subjects, we greatly reduce red tape and simplify the regulation of work, reduce red tape, reduce red tape procedures of work relations, include the need to obtain a permit from the company, simplify the process of breaking the contract, reduce the term of employee warning, and simplify the conduct of small business documents related to employment. The subject of small businesses determines for himself the scope of work protection documents that are subject to processing and accounting. Colleagues, trade unions today have about 6 million members. They ask you to be supported by the very alternative law. Let us not destroy the working relationship offered by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u57	The word is given to the coreporter, the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to Galina Mikolayivna Trelyakowi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u58	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Government Bill 5388 provides for amendments to the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine, which simplifies the procedure for the conclusion of a contract of employment and the passing of a test. In fact, this bill makes a difference between a fixed-term employment agreement and a temporary employment agreement. It is properly established that term contracts can be made for a term, but not more than five years, it is a European practice. In view of the fact that the government bill encourages employers to legalize their working relationship, it provides preconditions for a more effective enforcement of labour legislation, provides for a comfortable working and rest regime, as well as an effective use of the period of leave, a committee at its meeting on 28 May following the consideration of the bill recommended that Parliament support Bill 5388. As far as European legislation is concerned, I can say that no one sees a breach of European legislation in this bill except the Ukrainian Federation of Trade Unions, but according to the first and second readings, if anyone thinks that we are violating something, in this case it can be corrected. In addition, the government bill was drafted by a social dialogue between the SPOs, employers’ SPOs and the government. At that meeting, the trade unions agreed to recommend a government bill before the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the national deputy of Sinyutka, the faction of "European Solidarity". Oleg Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u60	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u61	Princely Nikola Leonidovich, please, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u62	Mr. Chairman, you said there was a meeting of the Committee on Budgets. In principle, this is forbidden during meetings. It wasn't like that at Mindy's, but I feel like I'm seeing committee members here. As far as this bill is concerned. Obviously, there are many positive standards in this bill. And for me, for example, and for a person who used to manage politics, for example, that would be a huge simplification. But when we look at this law, we see that, in principle, the role of the unions as such is being nullified, the procedure for granting the union's consent to free workers is being reversed, thus minimizing the possibility of protecting workers' rights by trade unions. In this part of the standard, this project is contrary to article 36 of the Ukrainian Constitution, under which citizens are entitled to participate in professional associations in order to protect their working relationship. It is proposed to determine the essential conditions of work in a particular employment contract with each person, rather than the accepted rules of the internal employment arrangement. Obviously, this also completely undermines the role of trade unions and the ability of trade unions to protect people. In a new part of the revision of part three, it is suggested that the employee should be informed of changes in the essential working conditions only if they are carrying on a deterioration in working conditions. In fact, this is contrary to the European Union Directive on transparent and predictable working conditions in the European Union, according to which, in the case of any changes in the main aspects of relations, not only those that lead to deterioration, the information is provided to the employer. Most important. Unlike the current law, it is envisaged to introduce the possibility of a test at the time of admission to work, including for those who have become winners of the competitive selection. In fact, this law crosses all competitions. Because if someone who doesn't like the manager or the authority he's assigned wins, they can fire and announce a new competition. A new approach is being taken to establish a worker’s material responsibility. In a word, we're going to hold on because this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u63	The word is given to the People's Deputy Boris Viktorovich, the "Trust" group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Mikoli Babenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u65	Mikola Babenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u66	Good afternoon, dear fellows! First of all, before voting for this bill, the trust MP wants to make a statement about what we consider unacceptable when a government bill is not presented by government representatives, we believe that at least the deputy minister of the economy would be able to appear today in order to present the bill. And I'm calling on the head of the committee of the Third-Party Galina Mikolayevna to settle this issue. And as far as the bill is concerned, the trust MPs will only support it on the first reading today. This is an overall positive bill, which simplifies the procedure for the conclusion of a contract of employment and the test of employment, optimizes the procedure for the employer to provide the employer with information on the conditions of the contract of employment and some other positive moments. But the bill also contains certain rules of discussion regarding the release of members of the trade unions. I think we're going to have a discussion with employers and professionals when we prepare this bill for second reading and we're going to look for compromise solutions to meet the demands of all the participants in the social dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u67	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Kabachenko Volodymyr Viktorovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u68	Please give the floor to Volinka Mikhail Yakovitch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u69	Mikhailo Jakovitch Wolintz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government, citizens of Ukraine! You know why nobody from the Ministry of Economics or the government came to report on Bill 5388 today? I'll give you an answer. Because no one wants to shoulder this responsibility, this great sin to the people of the hired work, in front of all society, no one wants to go against the decades - old international standards and standards. Here is my colleague, Mr. Yvchenko, speaking about the fact that the Head of the International Confederation of Sharon Barrow, as well as the Head of the All-Ukrainian Union of Trades and, at the same time, the Head of the European Confederation of Trades and Tradesmen, Mr. Vincentini, addressed the President of Ukraine, Mr. Vladimir Zelensky, the President of the Supreme Council, Mr. Dmitr Razumkov, and the Prime Minister, Mr. Schmigal, with a specific address and explanation that such a bill was adopted in Ukraine. The law, as a law in no way can be adopted, violates dozens of conventions of international organizations of work. My colleagues, who have spoken before, have testified that there is a violation of the Constitution, of the basic law on trade unions, of the law on leave, which is completely in violation of the code of labour laws. Dear friends, those who vote in favour of this bill will be political bodies. This affects 22 million people in employment, people of working age, and all the generations that will be affected. We can't live separately in the world, we're trying to integrate into European space into a civilized world. In no way can COVID, in the absence of a social dialogue without expert evaluation, without agreement with the professions, without agreeing with the people employed, pass such a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u71	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Krachod Annie Constantineni, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u72	Please pass the word to Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u73	Sergey Rudik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u74	"Nimi goes to the bush and their children lead," Taras Grigorovich Shevchenko, 1848. How I felt the "servants" would come to power in 170 years. Ms. Galina Tretlyakova said that no one else sees violations of European legislation except trade unions. Specially for Mrs. Galina, the following are violated: Convention 87 of the International Labour Organization on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organize; ILO Convention No. 158, Council of Europe Directive 98/59/EC of 20 July 1998 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to collective liberation, article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Because you can't liberate people without the idea of trade unions. And they know that all over the world, except for the Third-Party of "Serve of the People." The need for internal work arrangements or variable schedules is excluded. The obligation to enter a holiday schedule and to report the start of a vacation is cancelled. Society, when you talk about fighting an oligarhat, do you mean who? You want to free people like slaves? Without it, can't we reform and fight poverty? The society, all who vote for this disgrace, will blush to the end of this cadence, and the political corpse is the minimum that will shine to you. No one will vote for you if they vote honestly, not minutes. I'm not scaring anyone, I'm warning you. Do not vote for this disgrace!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u75	The word is given to the national deputy of the Cabal, the faction of the Voice, one minute. Anyone else want to come forward, Your Honor, because after that, we're going to go to the vote? There are no wanters.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u76	Vladimir Tzabal, “Justice. ” Dear colleagues, when you mention the last crisis in the eighth to ninth year, you remember how the northern European countries came out of this crisis much faster, and the southern European countries, most of them, came out very long. And one of the main reasons was the liberality of labour legislation. This is a labor legislation that thinks of both the employee and the employer who creates jobs. So I call on the first reading to support this law, which liberalizes labour legislation that gives more opportunities to employers, and in the end, workers win because a good employer is growing, his income is growing, his wages are growing, and the employee is eventually also winning. So, colleagues, we support this law in the first reading. In fact, there are a lot of things that need to be worked out, I've talked to business associations, we're going to work on the second and we're going to have a better text in the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u77	Thank you. Anyone else want to make a statement? Then I ask you to take your seats. Who else wants it? Ah, please, Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. I saw you. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, well, unfortunately we can't support this bill, our faction has registered an alternative bill to that. Of course, we do not share that employment policy that exists today or in the last two years. Because. I'll call you in numbers, because when you came to power, the unemployment rate in the country was about 7 percent, 7.5 percent. Now it's 10.5 percent. Plus 3 percent is a high figure if you take this general indicator, which is calculated on the unemployment rate according to the International Labour Organization methodology. This is the first moment. The second point is that programs to stimulate employment should be completely different. They have to have an economic base, a fiscal base, a resource base to create these jobs and we don't have people on vacation on their own account, what I told you about the Institute of Nuclear Technology of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, and they did work, had a decent salary and worked on these objects. Thank you, and again, we don't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm voting on the draft law. a more faithful proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of Bill No. 5388, government, to amend some Ukrainian legislation on labour regulation. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:19:06]] For 244 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. The decision is made as a basis. Dear colleagues, I have received two applications with a break with a replacement for the performance. I give my word to the National Deputy Sowsun, and after that we have more. From two factions, who's going to perform? Who will speak from you? Tymoshenko is then Julia Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u80	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, we will now vote on a number of budget-related laws: first on the agenda for the 21st year budget, then we will discuss the 22nd year budget. In this regard, I would like to remind you of a bill that we have all voted together in the summer of this year. This is a bill that was proposed to allocate money from the state budget in order to install oxygen stations in Ukrainian hospitals. When we voted in favour of this bill, the government said to me, "Don't let the Supreme Council get involved in this right now, we'll settle this issue at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers." Sadly, this question has not yet been resolved. Sadly, in the summer the government did not help Ukrainian hospitals, Ukrainian doctors, and Ukrainian patients prepare for a new wave of epidemic. We know that the new wave of the epidemic is going to be, we know that as of tomorrow, Ukraine will be moving into the yellow zone. But unfortunately, we also know that Ukrainian hospitals are not actually prepared for this new wave. Yesterday, the minister of security, Lazko, said that 30 percent of the beds with oxygen are already occupied by the sick. Again, 30 percent of the beds with oxygen are already occupied. We have not yet reached the peak of the epidemic. This means that, unfortunately, oxygen will not be sufficient again in Ukrainian hospitals. Now we hear a lot of government statements about money going somewhere. You know, I've sent inquiries to all the health departments to find out if there's any money or not. Yes, several departments said they were able to use the leftovers that they had left over from the previous subsidy. But unfortunately, from most departments, I got answers like this. The government and local authorities have not allocated funds for the purchase and installation of oxygen stations in health facilities in the current year. I received dozens of such answers from all over the country. Dear MPs, dear colleagues, you'll go to the districts, you'll face the lack of oxygen in the hospitals again. And you're going to be personally responsible for this, because we've been talking about this for six months. I'm asking you very much not to mess with this question right now. The fifteen billion you're offering to put on the road is perhaps important, but believe me, when they're burying Ukrainians again, because they're running out of oxygen, then you'll remember those billions. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to think about it and to focus on it and concentrate on what is important and to help Ukrainian doctors, hospitals and patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u81	Thank you. The word is given, also taking into account that this is a break with a replacement for the performance, the national deputy of the Ukraine of Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko. And then I ask you to invite the people's deputies into the hall, and we'll move on to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the 6052 and the alternative. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, perhaps someone is not reading the bill in Parliament, I would just like to explain what Bill 5388 "U" has just voted for. The bill began with a global revision of the Ukrainian Labour Code. They wanted to introduce the Labour Code of the new Ukraine, which completely eliminates virtually all the rights of working people. But it didn't go away. And now there are 21 bills that have the same goal and the same effect. I want you to press the button, especially the green button, and you know what you take from people. It's so impressive to you that you've pressed the green button and everything, and in fact you've taken the rest of your life from people. I want to remind you that for over 300 years, there's been a labor movement in the world that's been fighting for the rights of working people for 300 years. And there are certain things formed that can't be set aside: the eight-hour workday limit, two weekends per week, mandatory vacations per year for at least a certain number of days, overtime hours that have to be paid and many, many other things. There's a whole list of people's rights that are set up by international conventions, all of which are covered by our Ukrainian laws. What do they offer? They offer all these guarantees to cancel and form between the employer and the working man, to form only on the basis of short - term contracts. And so that in these covenants the employer may impose what he wants without restrictions that are fixed by international conventions and other legal instruments. What are you doing, I want to ask? Do you have any idea what's going on? Trade unions are completely excluded, completely alienated from protecting working people. If the unions do not satisfy us in some way, make them stronger, but do not clean up the principle of tripartism, which essentially holds the entire system of law in the world that applies to working people. And that's why Bill 5388 "U," which you voted against, was opposed by the International Labour Organization, international trade unions came forward and said that if this was continued, Ukraine would be practically sanctioned. I want to ask you, are you familiar with the laws you're adopting? Vote against this law and the next three!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, as agreed, awaited the committee’s decision. And so with your permission, we return to the question, the registration number of projects 6052, 6052-1, 6052-2 and 6052-3. We don't really consider them today. We need to include them in the agenda and cut the deadlines by half by introducing alternative drafts and concluding a committee on them. Dear colleagues, I ask the national deputies to take their seats. And I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2021 on social measures and infrastructure projects (project registration numbers: 6052 main and alternative 6052-1, 6052-2, 6052-3). We need to get 226 votes for, once again, I emphasize, this is not really a consideration of the issue, it's an inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:27:32]] For 314 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've included this issue in the session. I now make the proposal made by the committee to define a bill as urgent and shorten the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills and to draw the Committee's conclusions on it in accordance with article 50 of part three and article 101 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. We also need to raise 226 votes in order to respond positively. This is about the basic bill 6052 and three alternative bills. Ready to vote? Once again, it's about defining a bill as urgent and shortening the deadlines for introducing alternative bills and concluding a committee on it. Please support and vote. [[11:28:33]] For 290 Decision taken. Yes, it is. And then, dear colleagues, let's move on to the next question that we have is the presentation of the draft State Budget Act for 2022. Dear colleagues, this is bill registration number 6,000. According to part three of article 154 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. In accordance with the Rules, the next order of action is proposed. Presentation of the National Budget project by the Minister of Finance of Ukraine – up to 20 minutes; responses by the Minister of Finance to questions from national deputies – up to 15 minutes; reports by the Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs up to 7 minutes; statements by representatives of MPs and groups up to 21 minutes; speeches by national deputies up to 6 minutes. The entire procedure takes up to 70 minutes. Therefore, honourable colleagues are invited to present the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2022 by the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Sergey Mihajlovich Marchenko. The rules, I remind you, are up to 20 minutes. Please, Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u84	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Allow me to introduce you to the draft State Budget Act of 2022. This year, the budget process is fundamentally different from previous budgets in the last 30 years. For the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, the budget was developed on the basis of a budget declaration supported by Parliament. It is based on government programming documents and takes into account the key development directions defined by the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This enabled the preparation of the 2022 budget project to focus its efforts on priorities. Our country’s main financial document is the human investment budget, the country, and the future. The basis for the budget was established in the past and this year. This budget is the result of our joint efforts, which we were able to achieve, regardless of the pandemic or the economic crisis last year. In 2022, the most important priority is the medics who are ahead in the fight against COVID, the military who defend Ukraine, the veterans of war, to whom we are immensely grateful for the courage and courage. For the first time since 2017, we plan to increase scholarships for students and give each child a level playing field for quality education. There is also extensive modernization and digitization of the country. The 2022 budget is realistic and balanced. It is based on a forecast that foresees a further recovery of economic dynamics through the restoration of consumption and investment. Real GDP growth is projected at 3.8 percent. The financial resource that the state is counting on next year is 1 trillion 466 billion dollars. Subject to the approval of amendments to the Tax Code (draft 5600), it is important to include an additional resource of 30 billion dollars. The government budget will increase by 160 billion dollars, to 1 trillion 267 billion dollars. At the same time, the share of GDP income will decrease by one percentage point compared to the planned figures of 2021 and will make up 23.6 percent of GDP. This means that regardless of the increase in budget income, more money will remain in business and citizens. More than 50 percent of the general fund's income is planned for VAT, which is plus 72.5 billion dollars. We're following up on steps to minimize VAT evasion. Since May last year, more than 40 billion dollars have been made up of resources from their implementation. In particular, I want to point out that the comings that we're predicting next year are realistic. The assumptions about the expanded tax base, which was the topic for discussion at the adoption of last year's budget, do not correspond to reality. This is confirmed by the January-August budget of 2021. The order was made by 108.9 percent, with an increase of 19.2 percent compared to the corresponding period last year. It's about the extra part. Half of all budget expenditures include health care, social protection, and education, and the defence and security sectors continue to be 21 percent. Capital expenditure will increase by almost 17 billion dollars compared to the planned figure. In addition, in order to implement investment projects, it is planned to engage credit funds from international financial organizations and foreign governments. At present, the budget includes 25.5 billion dollars of such funds, provided that contracts are implemented at the right time and that there may be more than 420 billion dollars in the sample. In 2022, an unprecedented increase in the cost of the health - care guarantee program is estimated at 34 billion dollars to 158 billion dollars. To combat COVID, it is planned to target a resource of 22 billion dollars, 5 billion dollars more than this year. In addition, the public health system and the purchase of vaccines for the population from COVID have 6 billion dollars. Under the initiative of the President of Ukraine, in 2022 medical salaries will be increased: the doctor's salary will be more than 20,000 dollars, the average medical staff will receive 13.5,000 dollars. For the first time, expenditure on the education budget is projected at more than 7 per cent of GDP in accordance with the Education Act. The government budget will add up to 16.7 billion dollars. On the salaries of 430,000 teachers, an additional 8.4 billion dollars is planned. Under the New Ukrainian School program, 1.4 billion dollars will be allocated. This will allow you to purchase modern equipment and furniture for 450,000 students. With the aim of continuing school feeding reform and providing fire safety to educational institutions, there are an additional 3 billion dollars. This applies to over 3,000 schools. 190,000 students receive higher scholarships. For those who study at PTU, the scholarship will increase to 1,000 250 dollars, the minimum scholarship for higher education students will be – 2,000 dollars, a scholarship for the difference – 2,000 550 dollars. With a view to creating an inclusive educational environment and a barrier-free space for people with special needs for 2022, the estimated cost of 9 billion dollars is more than 2 billion dollars this year, including a pedagogical escort for over 33,000 children with special needs. One billion dollars will be directed to over 600 inclusive resource centres. 2.6 billion dollars are planned in the draft budget to provide social support to 264,000 people with disabilities. In 2022, 200.6 billion dollars will be spent on pension insurance. These expenses provide for the indexation of pensions for more than 9 million pensioners, the payment of pensions to 411,000 military personnel. The following year, payments for 75-80-year-old pensioners will continue. A further 2.4 million people will receive an allowance. The cost of supporting veterans and participants in hostilities in eastern Ukraine and their families will amount to 14 billion dollars, an increase of 6 billion dollars this year. In particular, these funds will address the problem of providing ATO veteran housing with VPO status. One hundred percent of the queue, and that's 4,000 families, they're going to get apartments. There will also be socio-pedagogical care and sanitation for children of war and their families. One million veterans will receive annual one - time assistance and legislative benefits. In the 2022 budget, the total national security and defence resource is 319.4 billion dollars, or 5.95 percent of gross domestic product, which corresponds to the legislative level established under the Ukrainian National Security Act, which is at least 5 percent of GDP. These include expenditures under the budget programmes of the Ministry of Defence and other subjects in the security and defence sector — 263 billion dollars, state guarantees — up to 20 billion dollars. The cost of international support in implementing investment projects and international agreements from France, Britain and the United States is 21 billion dollars. State support for the housing of military personnel, police and other categories of benefits that protect Ukraine’s independence is 15.5 billion dollars. A resource for the Ministry of Defence for 2022 is projected at $164.3 billion, representing 51.4 percent of the total defence budget. This indicator has been the highest in four years. The total budget for the Ministry of Defence increased by 13.3 billion dollars in 2022. The main directions for budget use will be the provision of money and the salaries of military and military personnel -- 71.7 billion dollars, plus 11 billion by 2021, which allows for the full and timely provision of all the necessary payments. The development of weapons and military technology is 32.7 billion dollars, in particular for the development of missile weapons, it is intended to allocate 3.4 billion dollars to the development of weapons and military equipment for the needs of the Navy 2.3 billion dollars. I would also like to point out that since 2014, the Ministry of Defence’s financial resources have increased by more than six times, and its increase in 2022 will be the largest in four years. In 2022, a budget of $124.1 billion was planned for the development of road infrastructure. This is the coming of the road fund, the borrowing of state guarantees and the funds of international financial organizations and foreign governments. Under the provision of a sample of credit and contract compliance, the resources of international financial organizations may be increased by an additional 43 billion dollars. The Energy Efficiency Fund will target 2.6 billion dollars in 2022. The overall financial resources of the fund, which also includes the support of the European Union, will now be 5.3 billion dollars. These funds will be used to provide grants, partial cost recovery and energy efficiency measures in multiple apartment buildings, the so-called Energosim program, energy conservation projects in the regions. In the heating season of 2021-2022, there will be a total of 4.6 million people with housing and utility subsidies. We're going to raise the expenditure by 12 billion dollars this year to finance the payments, and in general we're going to target 34 billion dollars for the heating season. State support for the coal sector will be 4.5 billion dollars. In particular, the funds will be aimed at eliminating non-predictive mines and partially covering the miners ’ salaries. The budget next year provides 11.2 billion dollars to protect the environment. These funds will ensure the conservation of the natural reserve, including the creation of the National Natural Parks "Royal Beskides" and "Verhovinsky". Some 3 billion dollars will be allocated to support the ecologically safe state of the Blackwater AES alienation zone. Law enforcement and conservation measures will also be carried out. The budget provides 700 million dollars. In order to develop an agro-industrial complex, support agriculture and implement land reform in the following year, 8 billion dollars are available. In addition, 1 thousand 200 farmers will receive irrigation subsidies, 2.7 billion will be allocated to ensure the operation of water systems and meliority complexes. In order to develop entrepreneurship and reduce barriers to the inaccessibility of financial resources, the draft budget takes into account the costs for the continuation of the "Available Credits 5-7-9" programme and for the provision of government guarantees on a portfolio basis. As part of the initiative by the President of Ukraine to facilitate citizens' access to mortgage lending, the "Available Mortgage 7 per cent" programme will be extended, home to more than 5,000 families. With a view to improving infrastructure for economic growth and improving the lives of the population next year, a financial resource is proposed for the development of regions of $53.5 billion. In particular, in order to implement the investment programmes, the draft budget provides the State Regional Development Fund in terms of the budget code, which is equal to 1 per cent of the income of the General Fund of the State Budget, amounting to 11.2 billion dollars. In addition, in 2022 funds will be made available for the development of administrative services centres, the planned costs for the renovation of the urban passenger transport fleet, the development of sports infrastructure, and the development of urban documentation. In order to transform coal regions, the cost of 118 million dollars is projected for the first time. As part of the digitization of economic sectors, the provision of access to the Internet in rural areas, and the introduction of information technology in the provision of administrative services, there are plans for a budget of 3 billion dollars. In addition, for the first time in 20 years, funds will be made available for the preparation of the nationwide census. Science expenditure is estimated at nearly 14 billion dollars. In particular, these funds will provide for the activities of the National Research Fund, scientific research by scientific institutions, the costs of Arctic research in the South Ocean on a domestic scientific research vessel. To finance culture and art, it's going to get 9.2 billion dollars. In particular, the funds will be aimed at creating effective mechanisms for state support for cultural institutions, national cinematography, including through the provision of theatres and artistic grants. In 2022, there are 7.3 billion dollars for physical culture and sports, which will focus on the training and material and technical provision of Ukrainian athletes. They participate in international competitions, further implementation of the "Active Parks – Locations of Healthy Ukraine" project. Ladies and gentlemen, your attention has been given to the main directions for directing the budget in the following year. But you and I have the opportunity to significantly expand the investment orientation of the budget, to add momentum to the strategic sectors of the economy. We can provide quality infrastructure to improve the lives of our citizens. The cost of Bill 5600, now in Parliament, can be an additional resource for the construction and reconstruction of more than 200 sports objects, theaters, and cultural buildings, health and education facilities. Therefore, the request to support Bill 5600. It's about debt policy. With a view to reducing the debt burden and bringing the budget deficit to the level set by the Budget Code, it is planned to decrease by two percentage points in 2022, and it will amount to 3.5 percent of gross domestic product. This means that in the following year, the state plans to reduce its borrowing by 60 billion dollars to finance the state budget. That is, government policies will continue to aim at reducing government debt in order not to be burdened by debt on future generations. Such a responsible position distinguishes us from not only other developing countries, which mark economic investors, but also the world’s largest economies. In view of the much greater cost of engaging in financing, we cannot afford to live in debt. Thus, the Ministry of Finance has a balanced debt policy. Government debt expenditure in 2022 will be reduced by 48 billion dollars and projected to amount to 574 billion dollars, of which 393 billion dollars will be allocated to debt service of 181 billion dollars. For the first time in four years, we're going to have the primary budget surplus. This means that our income will fully cover our expenses minus debt service. The financing of the State Budget General Fund in 2022 is planned for government borrowing, 77 percent of which is domestic borrowing. The proceeds of privatization will amount to 8 billion dollars. In the past year and this year, we managed to significantly optimize our portfolio of debt instruments, cut short-term bonds, and cut the portion of the medium-term. and increased the proportion of medium-term instruments in total debt. A balanced budget presented to you yesterday, a balanced debt policy and budget deficit rate will reduce the level of government-guaranteed debt to 57.8 percent of gross domestic product, which corresponds to the Maastricht criteria and the threshold of debt to GDP of 50-60 percent, which are also defined by the Ukrainian Budget Code. At the end of my speech, I would like to say that the 2022 budget is as balanced as possible, it takes into account the interests of every Ukrainian citizen and country as a whole. Any criticism of the budget, we think, should be accompanied by proposals for alternative solutions to these issues and related sources of expenditure. We are ready for a constructive dialogue in Parliament's walls to make the country's main financial document better. Thank you for your attention. Please back up and get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u85	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I ask the National Deputies to sign up for a question to the Minister of Finance, which will take up to 15 minutes. I wanted to consult you: we can or because we have 10 minutes, 10 minutes, and a break, and then another 5 minutes, or 15 minutes, and then we'll take a break, and then we'll move on. Fifteen, right? Please sign in then. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the Political Party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u86	Mr. Secretary, I know you're a good professional, so please give me a professional answer and two numbers better. See, your budget is set up without the adoption of 5,600 and without the adoption of Law 5599 or the Oligarch Act. Tell me, please, do you see the final text of both the first and the second laws, how much will we increase the income portion of the budget if they adopt 5599 and 5600? Individual or two digits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u87	I'm ready to evaluate the value of Bill 5600. What I'm saying is that in Parliament's debate, the bill has changed a little bit, our previous estimates, they've changed a little bit. So for our calculation, the amount of extra revenue can be between 25 billion and 35 billion dollars, on average, in 30 billion, depending on which edition is finally supported by Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u88	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the Political Party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u89	Jaroslav Jurchisin, “Justice. ” Please pass the word to Olga Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u90	Olga Stefanisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u91	Olga Stefanishin, “Justice. ” Mr. Sergio, today under the Supreme Council, and right now, in these seconds, there is a briefing of doctors from all over Ukraine, who are receiving very low wages today, from 3900 dollars. Well, of course it's embarrassing. Why is this happening? Because there's not enough money on the secondary-third chain. You know very well that there's a law in Ukraine that says that the health guarantees program should be 5 percent of the gross product. Today it's just 2.9, so it's almost half that much. We have a medical deficit today, 100 billion dollars, even more. Today, in the Supreme Council, there have been some changes to the Budget Code, and I think, with your involvement, I'd like to remove this figure by as much as 5 percent of GDP. I mean, I have a question. Do you really think that this pathetic 3 percent for doctors is enough to have a normal wage at a time like this?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u92	Dear National MP, the answer is very clear and clear. In the 2022 budget, spending on the health sector is on an unprecedented scale. The additional cost will be 34 billion dollars. The doctor’s salary will not be less than 20,000 dollars. The average medical staff’s salary will be not less than 13,000 dollars. This is my answer to your question. About 5 percent. The question is not 5 percent, the question of how to provide them. And the 5 percent question concerns the entire health sector, including the Health Guarantees Program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u93	The word is given to the national deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, the group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u94	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Dear Sergey Mihajlovich, we have been approached recently by a great many heads of the community and heads of the budgetary institutions for gas tariffs for budgetary institutions over the past week. Because the price went up, if we're talking about, for example, the Poltava region, 10 times, and that's exactly the problem for thermal utility companies. There's no money for that in the budget. According to different experts, subsidies to level this tariff need about 15 to 16 billion. So there's a specific question. Have you had a budget request to the Minister of Finance from the Ministry of Energy for this matter? And what is your view of this situation, anyway? Because, as we see it in places, communities just can't get it out, they don't have the resources to redistribute the funds to cover this difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u95	Thank you for asking. The previous issue that Parliament has supported, thank you, Bill 5062, which concerns increasing aid and subsidies for the population. The amount of money you're going to increase is equal to 12 billion dollars. It foresees closing questions about December and even January’s advance. So by the premium categories, by the subsidies, we're closing this issue completely. Regarding the burning of schools, kindergartens, budgetary institutions: we are ready to consider proposals from local self-government authorities for joint responsibility for supporting such institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u96	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Ustenek Alexi Olegovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u97	Mr. Secretary, congratulations. In fact, it's a development budget, not a diet, because many of the indicators that are here are actually increased. And there's increased payout for doctors and increased pay for education, and higher pay for education. There's no reduced expenditure on infrastructure projects, and that's certainly a huge plus. I have two main questions. The first question is for subsidies. Is there enough money in the government's grant budget for people? Because we see that the energy supply is increasing. And the second question. How much will we be able to reduce the service of our public debt next year? And the positive thing is that our deficit is actually in the next year, it's shrinking, and that's definitely good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u98	Thank you for asking. I'm going to highlight that figure that I called even in the previous question. We're increasing the amount of aid and subsidies in the 21st year budget by 12 billion dollars. This will allow us to completely and openly close the issue of this heating season along with the 2022 budget. So the cost is more than enough. In terms of debt, the economy is going to have about 60 billion dollars. Indeed, balanced debt policy allows us to minimize the cost of servicing and repaying our debt so that we can spend more money on development, supporting citizens, and other important areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u99	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanishini Olga Anatoliyevna, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u100	Please give Sofia the word to Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u101	Sophia Romanovna Fedina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u102	Good afternoon! Please tell me, for over a year and a half, there's a promise to pay the medics 20,000 dollars, and so far they're the same one where they pay $4,000 for teachers. The fact is, in the new budget, the number of medical bills raised is very different from what was set up in 2021. So the question is, where are you going to take the money? Because it looks like a simple manipulation. The second question. Why didn't the government go to cover, debt to military and medical personnel, subsidies and pensions, the funds that came from the IMF? And in general, why don't we see the allocation of IMF funds for the new budget? And the third question. You're sharply reducing the financing of culture. Of those tiny 7.8 billion in the 21st year, 6.8 in the 22nd year. You reduce subsidies by 10 times to local budgets for restoration and repair, and you reduce the security. A state without culture is doomed. Why the hell is culture again?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u103	Dear National MP, one-third of the budget expenditure we allocated in the 22nd year, which is 34 billion dollars, is going to go towards raising the salaries of doctors. And those numbers that I've been talking about, they're going to be fully budgeted, and now they're being provided. You can see for yourself by opening up a third to the budget, the chief executive, the Ministry of Health. On the second question. Costs derived from the distribution of special borrowing rights are not income by nature. This is a source of debt, so such funds can be directed only to debt relief. I'm telling you this as the minister of finance. And you can accept it or not, but essentially it's not income. The third question is about culture. Yes, indeed, we have some programs that have not found their reflection. So at your suggestion you can prepare between the first and the second readings, these costs can. scaled up. Even more so, I ask you to support Bill 5600, where, at the expense of these funds, they will be aimed at restoring cultural heritage and other important cultural objects. So vote 5600, and there'll be an extra budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u104	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's National Deputy Boris Viktorovich, MP "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u105	Please pass the word to Paul Bakuntz.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u106	Paul Bakunets, please, Paul Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u107	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, first of all, of course, about spending on education subsidies to our local communities. First of all, of course, the State has to provide wages for teachers, not local self - government authorities, because they do not have the funds to do so. And there's already a problem with that in that year. Are you going to close it by the end of the year? And the second. Please also take this into account for the following year and increase the expenditure on education subsidies to local budgets. Because there are 108 billion in the budget, and the Ministry of Profitability needs an additional 6 billion, owing to the high birth rate and the increasing number of students in schools throughout the country. So I'd like you to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u108	Thank you. Let's take a look. The 2022 budget provides 17 additional billions of dollars for education. As far as the questions you're raising are concerned. There's not enough money in some regions, we see this problem. There's a remainder of the education grant this year. It will be aimed at solving your problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u109	Thank you. The word is given to Taras Ivanovich Batenka, "The Party for the Future," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u110	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I think we, together with the deputy corps, all factions and groups, and the budget committee, are able to work out this quality project of the state budget of Ukraine. We see positives and, unfortunately, a lot of negatives. We're concerned about how real the budget is going to be, how much the GDP is not going to be, how much there is going to be from privatization, how much there is going to be from the unaccepted 5600 bill, and whether there's going to be a huge gap in the budget as a result. And, of course, saving a small living minimum, a minimum pension, only 200 dollars more in a situation, even when we raised 500 this year, well that's a little bit frivolous, I think. How do you view this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u111	Our figures that we put in the budget are as calculated, balanced as possible. And the possibilities that we've put in place are clear. It's about income questions. Our income is based on a macroeconomic forecast made by the government in May. And the indicators that are set today are real until they're done. I want to say that the amount of increased revenue is 160 billion dollars. This year, the level of budget implementation allows us to expect that we will be able to implement the budget again next year. Hence, we have no questions. With regard to the growth of social standards. Since December 1, we have a minimum wage of 6.5,000 dollars. Growth is extremely important this year. Next year, we're also planning to increase the minimum wage, since October 1st, it's going to be 6,700.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u112	Thank you. The word is given to the National MP Motka Igor Fedorovich, the MP's Party for the Future. The hammer. Please, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u113	He's gone. Let's move on. Fedina Sofia Romanovna. "European Solidarity." And that, I take it, is the ultimate question. Then we're going to announce a 30-minute break. Please, Sofia Romanovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u114	Please give it to Nina Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u115	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u116	Mr. Finance Minister, it's quite obvious that our country is now stagnant in the economy, in business, in people's lives, so I would like you to name at least one figure of the planned state budget for the 22nd year of business support, of course, except for "investment." 2.7 billion, I understand, is your promise to the President's Office or to the President. Please name, specifically, I want everyone to see, this is all the programs that are in the budget for 2022 on at least some kind of thematic or promised support. Please read the program and what amount.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u117	We have a special slide on this. I'll ask him to turn it on. On this slide, you can see clearly where and how we're going to support the enterprise. I'm on it. For the "Available Credits 5-7-9" program, the amount is projected at 3 billion dollars, the budget is already there. At an affordable mortgage of 7 percent, costs are also foreseen. It's also the money for the portfolio guarantee program. And in the right-hand column, you see, tax incentives that are either already accepted, or supported by the Supreme Council, or will be accepted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as we agreed for five minutes, we took a little bit more time, but now we have a 30-minute break to logically complete this stage. After the break, we'll continue with the committee manager's report. Thank you. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, the half hour recess has ended. We continue to consider our question. I remind you that we are considering a draft law, a draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine (registration number 6000). And for a report on the compatibility of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine with the requirements of the Budget Code and the Budget Declaration adopted by the Supreme Council this year, I invite the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to speak on the budget of Yuri Juryovich Aristov. Please, Yuri Yuriovich. Your deadline is up to seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u120	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, respected members of the government! The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted the State Budget Bill for the year 2022 to the Supreme Council in time, and today's submission of this document is in line with the established requirements. According to article 154 of the Rules, the Committee on Budgetary Questions is to inform the bill of compliance with the requirements of the Budget Code. In carrying out this rule, the committee in the short term of the bill that has been previously analyzed lists the relevant information in the bill's letter. Now, given the limited time, I want to draw your attention to the following. First of all, it should be noted that according to article 33 of the Budget Code this year, the government has for the first time approved and submitted the Budget Declaration for the next three years, the basis for the drafting of the State Budget for the year 2022. The Supreme Council considered and accepted the Budget Declaration and approved the recommendations on budgetary policy. The draft articles provide information on the consideration of this declaration and the recommendation of the Supreme Council, which requires careful study in the drafting of the bill before the first reading. In general, the draft State Budget for 2022 has been prepared mainly on the basis of tax and budgetary legislation in force, which complies with the requirements for compliance with the principles of soundness of the budget system, stability and tax legislation. At the same time as the draft budget, a related Bill 6062 on amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code was introduced by the government. The presentation also highlights the possibility of increasing the cost of the state budget in the case of the adoption of an entire government bill of 5600 on changes to the Tax Code. Therefore, the balance of government and local budgets and the harmonization of legal standards must be considered in a mutually agreed manner. Unlike the previous two years, the 2022 bill plans to improve debt ratios in part of the reduction of government budget deficits and the total amount of debt relative to GDP. However, the size of the State guarantee deficit is defined slightly above that defined by Articles 14 and 18 of the Budget Code and is proposed by the government to stop. It should be noted that the draft budget does not allocate government capital investments, such costs are accumulated under the relevant programme of the Ministry of Economy, and article 25 of the bill proposes that they be distributed according to the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. This is not in line with the rules of the Budget Code and should be corrected during the drafting of the bill. The bill also contains a number of other regulations and indicators that require further elaboration and harmonization with the rules of the Budget Code and other laws. At present, it is premature to give an overall assessment of the bill because it is necessary to carry out a detailed analysis of all the positions and indicators. The Committee on Budgets has already begun its thorough work on the document. In doing so, the main tasks are to achieve a balanced and realistic budgetary performance, to study the measures taken to implement structural reforms in key areas, to ensure the efficient and rational use of budgetary resources. It should be noted that the Supreme Council Rules do not provide for a vote on the basis of the presentation of the State Budget project, which is actually starting to prepare the bill for the first reading. I note that the National Deputies and Committees have the opportunity not later than October 1st to submit their proposals to the Committee on Budget Affairs for the Bill. In formulating these suggestions, it is essential to comply with the requirements of part one of article 156 of the Rules, which should be balanced. So if we're going to propose an increase in spending or a decrease in revenue to the state budget, we need to identify realistic sources to cover it. To conclude, I invite people's deputies, factions, committees and government representatives to work constructively on the draft budget. Together, we have to ensure timely adoption of a country's high-quality financial instrument for the following year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u121	Thank you, Yuri Yuriovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speeches by the MPs and groups. Let me remind you, that's three minutes for the show, and 21 minutes. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ustenek Alexi Olegovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u122	Please pass the word to Daniel Getmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u123	Danilo Alexanderovich of the Getmans, "Serve of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, we have received with you a draft of the State Budget for 2022. Let's be objective, this budget project is much better than last year's budget project, and the government has done much better. First of all, I want to make sure that the budget declaration is consistent, which means budget predictability, budget transparency and budget policy planning, like, by the way, and all public policy as such. The reduction to 3.5 percent of the budget deficit and the reduction of government debt to 56 percent, I remind you that by the end of 2018, government debt was more than 60 percent. On the income side, I want to mark 3.1 percent of GDP in the value added tax, which means the childization and cooperation of businesses and states in the field of childization. Let me remind you that in 2018 the same percentage was only 2.05 percent. The cost of maintaining the Office of the President and the Supreme Council has been reduced. Increased industrial support costs. If we're talking to you about specific numbers, it's 5.7 billion dollars for the modernization and repair of military technology. It's increased by 2.5 billion energy efficiency funds. A 50 percent increase in the Enterprise Fund. And as for social expenses, 1.6 times, once, colleagues, there's an increase in medical wages. The doctor's minimum salary is 20,000, the minimum salary paid by the nurse is 13.5,000, as promised by the President. The increased scholarships are up to 2,000 minimum scholarships. Of course, the budget has not been cleared, and we have something to discuss before the first reading when we apply the amendments. In my opinion, it's unfair to reduce excise revenue on tobacco, we have the largest tobacco market in history, and we have to deal with it. Insufficient increase in alcohol excise duty. Also, the subsistence minimum is only 60 percent of the actual cost of living. Clearly, it is not easy to correct, but it must be corrected. There is no increase in payments to veterans by May 9, and there is also no increase in the cost of childbearing. Small amounts of export support, as well as increased funding for some ministries and, in particular, the National Memory Institute. At the same time, you and I need to work on the draft budget, there's something to work on, but the draft budget is much better, and we certainly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u125	Thank you, Danilo Alexandrovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Jurchino Jaroslav Romanović. Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, everyone today is so worried about the medics, from the President to the MPs in the hall. They were under the Supreme Council today. The women of medicine came from all over Ukraine to reach you and us. They asked me to show you. Yes, there were only women. They asked me to show you this robe. It's a medical robe, but with holes. Why is he with holes? Because it symbolizes the financing of the medical system. There was Mrs. Irina who had just received a salary of 3,000, 900 dollars. When the medical reform had just begun, we had managed to raise primary - paying doctors to 20,000 dollars. The reform of a second and a third require more than 100 billion dollars. Today, the Ministry of Finance is proud to have added some 30 billion dollars, but sorry, the Ukrainian law clearly states that 5 percent of GDP is to be allocated by the State to the health insurance programme. Do you know how much is there now? 2.9. Colleagues, those doctors who came to Kiev today, were very eager to tell you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to fight for a worthy medical budget, truly worthy, not this tribute offered today by the Government of Ukraine. And the medics are asking each of you to get involved and make adjustments. I will personally make amendments that say that at least 5 percent of GDP should be allocated to medicine for the health insurance programme. From what we have today, we still have to add almost 110 billion dollars. You can look for them. I don't believe there's any money in Ukraine today, they're on the road, they're at other ministries. When there is a pandemic in the country and the medical profession is just in its original position with this war, we have no right today to disrespect these workers. So I'm asking a lot between the first and the second readings, when we can apply for the 2022 draft budget, please let's all get together, with all the factions, and find the money to actually fund medicine next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u127	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Porcelain Peter Alexiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u128	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! The budget is said to be the economic constitution of the country. That's not true, the Constitution is above. But the budget is the philosophy of the country's development by the government. What was the country's philosophy of development over the last five years, from 14th to 19th? We've moved to the European Union, we've moved to NATO, and we've moved the country to such clear criteria as Copenhagen, the criteria the country has to meet in order to become a member of the European Union and a member of NATO. Not ask Byden, Merkel, or Macron, why Ukraine is still not in NATO. Ask yourself. The growth of the economy or the rise, as it's called, since the crisis of the 20th year in the countries of the European Union is one of the following. In Poland, the quarterly contribution is 11 per cent; in Estonia, the quarterly contribution is 14 per cent; and in the country that claims to move to Europe, Turkey is 21 per cent; and economic growth per quarter is 21 per cent. What rise in Ukraine in the face of a crisis last year? Five percent. Where are we going? I firmly believe that we need foreign direct investment to stimulate economic development. This is the rule of law and trust. By the way, that's what the Copenhagen criteria are: the rule of law, democracy, human rights, media freedom and the absence of opposition. On all of this, Ukraine for Zelensky is demonstrating regression. And unfortunately, one of the big problems is lying. If you look at this budget, remember when the Gethmans lobbyed the lottery when Arahama was lobbying the hill, they said with a raised hand that the budget would be 7 billion dollars. Dear Mr. Secretary, how much have you now invested in the revenues of the "Igorka" and in the proceeds of the "lotteryka"? 700 million. That's a lie, that's what it is. Because the money goes in the pocket of the people's servants in the form of 20/40/50 envelopes that go around the hall. And I emphasize that this year we have to protect the people, pay the 13th pension, protect the decentralization that you robbed, repay the debt to the army, give you the position on the subsidies that you robbed. And that's all to be done now, now. Thank you. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u129	Heroic glory! Right to request a reply from the Gethmans. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, thank you for mentioning my last name. I want to respond to that lie you just heard from the Supreme Council. In fact, what we've gained in these two years after the gap that led the country to power, it's all on board: pensions have increased by 25 percent, wages have increased by 30 percent, we've exceeded the minimum wage that is in Russia, Belarus, Moldova. But I have a question for the reporter, such a brilliant speaker, one. You and I are budgeted in 2021 and 2022 that VAT is 3.1 percent of GDP. You had 2 percent in 2018. Where's the percentage of VAT? Return the VAT from your pocket to the state budget, return the VAT to the state!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u131	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u132	You know, it seems to me that millions of our citizens don't care about the large and high philosophy of the materials of the budget that are flowing from this rostrum. Because the vast majority of our citizens feel very budgeted, they count every penny, and in fact the dichotomy of the budget for them is the utility, the medicine, and how to survive. So this is the whole philosophy of the Ukrainian budget. I understand that every government offers a budget with high parity and optimism. It would be strange if there were so much pessimism in the figures. We think of it as the political "For the Future" that this project presents realistic sources of revenue, no more and no less. And we're willing to help, help, find these realistic arrivals. We welcome the desire of the government to reduce government debt substantially, even though we understand that the International Monetary Fund has last provided irreversible assistance to facilitate the payment of Ukraine's sovereign debt. We welcome an increase in medical pay, a desire to increase 1.6 times. But it is important for us to see the mechanism for paying doctors for a certain amount, not a certain amount, but the number of patients who have been counted. The minimum of living, Mr. Minister, is 6,000 500. And it's going to go up to 6,000 700. This is a small achievement that we expect in the minimum pension plan, which will be the minimum wage that will be the minimum wage of 200 dollars next year. It's just funny. Subsidies. The amount of subsidies is equal to the number of poor citizens, and the number of poor citizens in Ukraine is steadily increasing. And we see that we've now added 12 billion dollars to the grant payments for the current year, and in the next year's budget, we've set the subsidy costs less than we've set up for this year. Obviously, we're going to have a grant hole again next year. We're increasing the costs of law enforcement. It's become a tradition, it's no wonder. I'm glad we're cutting costs on the Supreme Council of Ukraine or not for the first time in years, but at the same time we're increasing the costs on the PNDP. I'm reminding you once again that we can't trade laws with sanctions. So I don't understand the logic of a substantial increase in expenditure on such organs. We want to see concrete sources of the coming, not the BDP bubble. We want to see real benefits from privatization. We want to see real scholarships for students, not an artificial increase in scholarships by reducing the student quota that they can get, despite learning success. And we're asking the government, why is the Ministry of Culture spending a quarter of its expenditure on culture in general? Is the development of culture not a priority for public policy, even in a war - torn country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u133	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyevich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u134	Thank you. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, has traditionally been given the name of the budget. In my opinion, the 22nd year's budget is actually a spit in the face of people with minimum fixed income, it's a financial plentuse, and I think it's a new debt budget, and I'll put it in numbers. My predecessor colleagues have already spoken about what income will be. Indeed, the level of growth in the minimum wage is extremely low. By the end of this year it's going to be 6,500, they want to raise to the end the next 6,700, plus 3 percent. 3 percent increase is an improperly low figure, considering that official inflation is 6.2 percent this year, and we have a galloping inflation for the indicators that go, for example, on the goods of first need and food. As for the official level of subsistence minimum, minimum pension. Similarly, the pension, which is at the end of the year, will remain unchanged at the end of the year -- 1 thousand 934 bracelets and a living minimum -- 2,000 393 bracelets, and it will remain unchanged. But what is disturbing? They used to think of themselves as predecessors. In the dollar equivalent it's 67 dollars minimum pension, in the 13th year it was $119, almost twice as much as it used to be. The subsistence minimum is $83, which was $147 in 2013, almost 2 times less. So I'm saying why I'm bringing in the dollar equivalent, the lower the level of purchasing capacity and the payability of the population. As far as subsidies are concerned. 38 billion dollars, but I want to remind you that in previous years this figure was both 55 billion dollars and 71 billion dollars. So if we compare this to the 18th or the 19th year, this figure is much smaller, and the cost of housing services, and I'm constantly talking about it every month, it's increasing significantly despite the nominal fiscal stabilization of energy prices, as if they weren't changing, but the cost of services is increasing. Similarly, I cannot help but notice that the next loan continues -- 571 billion dollars in borrowing next year. Imagine the numbers. This is essentially up to 45 percent of the government budget's income we're borrowing. Of these, 420 are internal loans. This means that Marchenka's pyramid from the DDP and all its predecessors will continue to exist. In conclusion, I also want to say that the fact that the economy is non-living is also evidenced by the fact that the pension deficit is increasing. And this year it will be, more precisely, the next 200 billion dollars. The budget deficit itself is almost 200 billion dollars of government budget. I believe that with such a financial and economic document, we should not vote him for the first reading and not for the rest of the world, but rather resign the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u135	The word is given to the People's Deputy Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, the MP's "Trust". After that, Krulko Ivan Ivanovich asked for it from the "Fatherland" faction. Please, Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u136	Dear Lord Chairman, dear Ukrainian people, Your Honor Minister! Paul Bakunec, Zovkovščina, Yavorovščina, Lvivsk region, MP group "Trust". Ladies and gentlemen, today we are looking at the State Budget for the following year. And we, the Parliament, have to take this bill very carefully and treat it very scrupulously. Because this bill will depend directly on both the lives of our inhabitants and the functioning of all spheres of society throughout the following year. And of course, we appreciate your work, Mr. Minister, to the government for timely submission of the State Budget project, for taking into account the increase in defence, social, infrastructure. However, today we still have many questions about this draft budget. Decentralization, first of all, about communities. The absence of a subsidy in this draft budget to compensate gas losses to local government authorities. You realize that gas prices have gone up by two and a half, three times. Local self - government authorities will not have the money to go through this heating season. Therefore, the second reading needs to be processed and subsidized to local self - government authorities to cover gas costs, otherwise they will not be able to give our residents a proper heat. The second thing that matters about people is subsidies. In terms of increasing the cost of all energy carriers, the government is proposing in this project that we reduce the cost of subsidies. It's totally unrealistic, we're seeing after this 21st year that for the next year the subsidy costs have to be increased. The third important thing is to definitely increase the amount of education subsidies to local budgets. Because now it's 108 billion, but it doesn't take into account the actual cost requirements, as the Ministry points out. Therefore, we demand an increase in the amount of education subsidies to local budgets by another 6 billion, as the number of students increases because there was a good demographic situation in the country before the war. So I would like to take all these things into account in further work on the budget next year and put forward to Parliament a more sophisticated draft budget in 2022 that would meet the real needs of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u137	The word is given to the national deputy Krulk Ivan Ivanovich, the faction of the Fatherland. And then six more minutes for the national MPs, and we're going to finish this question. Please, Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u138	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to address you first, because we are now considering a key law that will determine how Ukrainian citizens will live the next 2022. And for us, for the Fatherland faction, the key indicators in the budget are whether they will become Ukrainians for a little bit better to live, whether their lives will improve, or whether their lives will worsen. So I'd like to stop at a couple of repertoires so we can figure out what the Ukrainian citizen is expecting next year. The first question is the issue of subsistence minimum. The issue of subsistence minimum is the issue of pensions for Ukrainian pensioners, for socially vulnerable population groups, and social standards. The State budget for 2022 provides a minimum of living, increases in December to $2,000,393 and increases in July to $2,500. This is calculated at the actual cost of living, not even 50 percent, since the cost of living is now 4 thousand 981 bracelets. So the minimum pension for a Ukrainian pensioner would now be at least 4,000 981 bracelets, and we have a situation where it's more than twice as much. We can't agree with this as a "fatherland." The second question to consider is the question of increasing the cost of energy carriers. We're already seeing what's going on in the residential sector -- energy is going up, the cost of gas is going up, and, in fact, today, those minimum increases in social standards that are being budgeted will be eaten up to the full by an increase in the cost of housing services. And that means that Ukrainian citizens are going to be even poorer today than they are now. And, of course, for Fatherland, this is a totally unacceptable situation. Last year, $31.4 billion was invested in grants. As Fatherland, we have warned that this will not be enough. In September, all these costs were spent by 100 percent. And now we've managed to start adding subsidies to the 21st year budget, and this was just on July Timoshenko's request included in the draft bill. So we think that subsidies should be budgeted sufficiently to cover all the expenses that Ukrainian families need today to pay for residential services. Well, there's one more thing. We certainly think that when a single tariff network is broken down and there is not enough about 120 billion for the medical community and for the education community to pay their salaries in this budget, it's also essentially where do we put these very important workers? Because this year we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u139	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the National Deputies in six minutes. The word is given to the national deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u140	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, no matter what, the budget is a budget, but it's raw. I didn't personally see the experts from "Our Land" see no figures re-set to support the coal industry. Why is coal twice as expensive for America today? Nor did we see compensation for people living in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. The Cabin made a populist decision and set up a task: At the local councils, drop payment for school meals for children. Children of war since they were 14. Imagine the number of children. For one Billew OTG, 9 million dollars, Rubižan OTG, 15 million or 20 million dollars. Where can you get that kind of money? The Cabin makes decisions, throws what can't be done after decentralization. Next. It's about terrible tariffs. Today, $70 billion in debt to the HKG. Power, water, gas, people in the Lviv region, in the Zakarpatsk region, in the Mikolai region is shut down. In the Odessa region, in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, people are disfellowshipped for debts. People would pay for this money, and there's nothing to pay for it. That in winter people would be able to fit into their beds, then the pathologists would write that the body was frozen. What can people do, fellow believers? Each of you is responsible for the districts where you were elected today. The second decision on the budget needs to be made with all the remedies and social guarantees, and the doctors, the miners, the pensioners who are now beggars, almost 10 million Ukrainians are in trouble, starving. In such a rich country, there are dumb officials today who cannot feed the Ukrainian people. So each of us has to intervene in the development and refinement of the budget and give an order to the Cabinet of Ministers because we're assigning them here. Today, 80 percent of people do not trust the Ukrainian Parliament. What frame does this fit in? It doesn't fit in the gate. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u141	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maxim Vitaliovic, the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u142	Please pass the word Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u143	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. Please, I can see it coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u144	Dear Ukrainians, this "burial" team came to power in populism and lies, promising an end to the age of poverty, the end of the age of cumulation, free gas. What do we really see? We're now offered BB, a budget for lying, where the authorities continue to lie to the population. I have a specific question for Mr. Marchenko. Who will answer, by law, for having officially admitted that you are a funeral team that has declared to all Ukrainians under 40 years of age that you have to pay the only social contribution, but you will not receive a pension. Because, in fact, this authority is unable to provide the most necessary -- the pension. The other one. We were promised that we would stop some theft in the army. So tell me, please, how did it happen that on the previous team, on the day of the army, you paid off all their corresponding salaries and salaries, and today you owe the army 1.5 billion dollars. And the Prime Minister of Ukraine lied to the Ukrainian people's deputies a week ago, and the main one was an army that had no debts. The opposition, "European Solidarity" says that this budget did not actually have enough money for subsidies, and the next budget did not provide enough funding for subsidies for dragon tariffs. You have to bet at least 55 billion on subsidies. You didn't see that money coming today. Next question. Inflation consumes Ukrainian savings today. You raise the minimum wage by 200 dollars, you retire by 150 dollars. It's money that doesn't even respond to inflationary risks, not to the fact that you don't raise wages. Next. You're building a police state. You're lying today when you say that the record amount of money from the next year's budget is on defense. That's not true, the security sector is in a terrible imbalance between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Once again, you raise your salaries by a hundred percent to the prosecutors, by one hundred percent of the D.B.I., who's been plagued by the opposition, but they can't find surveillance cameras on the most illuminated route to tell us who was driving the car, where six passengers were hit, because there was a representative of the People's Servant behind the wheel. And that's the budget you're proposing today. It's the budget of the lie. And we demand that the first payment be made to doctors you've owed for two months now, to educators, to decentralization for this year, and then to the 2022 budget. And you must serve the people, not the Bank, but the people, as you promised. And the people are the teachers you lied to, the people are the doctors you don't pay your salary to, the people are the army you owe the most important payments to today. We'll be firm.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u145	Dear National Deputies, the presentation of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2022 (registration No. 6000) has been completed. In accordance with article 154 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the draft Law on Ukraine’s State Budget for 2022 is considered to be adopted by the Supreme Council for further work. So I invite everyone to implement your right to legislative initiative and to submit their amendments to this draft law. The only thing we remember is that according to the requirements of current legislation, when you propose amendments, you have to specify from which resources you propose to do so. Therefore, your fellow believers, your consideration of the matter is complete. Thank you all. Thank you, Minister of Finance. And before we go to the next question, I give the word "Olena Constantineni."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u146	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, it has been announced to the Presidency that in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I am reporting on the creation of the Ninth Interfractional Union "Energy Effective Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Tishchenko Mikolayovich, was elected head of this association.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u147	Thank you, Helen Constantine. We're moving on. In the afternoon we have bill 3527, this is a bill amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Humanitarian Aid. It's a second reading. I invite you as a reporter for the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights of Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluuk. Dear colleagues, will someone insist on repairs? Please, then, a few words and what they took into account, if no one else, we go to the vote. Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u148	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! In fact, the bill was voted in the first reading on December 1, 2020. In the Committee on Social Policy, the protection of veterans' rights, we had a professional discussion in preparation for a second reading with representatives of central, local and local authorities, with representatives of humanitarian missions in Ukraine, charitable organizations. Most of the amendments were taken into account, which relate to the fact that local authorities can still accept humanitarian aid, which goes into the region. We've kept the central government in balance, but we've given the local authorities the advantage of self-government. Because of this, I propose that we support and approve this bill in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u149	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, will anyone insist on their amendments? I see no one wants to insist. So, noble colleagues, you've heard the position of the committee. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 5 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid (registration number 3527). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please support and vote. [[13:15:06]] For 283 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. The next bill is bill 2743, 2743 with the badge "prim."".. This is the first reading of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the effectiveness of the use of social insurance funds. Dear colleagues, before we go into the consideration of this project, I propose that we make a decision and consider it in a simplified manner. I remind you that it takes 150 votes in the room to make this decision. Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:16:00]] For 252 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights to speak to Trelyakow Galina Mikolayevna. I understand that you will be both from the author and from the committee. So give me four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u150	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I've been thinking a lot about public finances lately, and I've actually been thinking about the cyanide that built Israel, Gold Mayer. What she was looking for was when Israel was only becoming a country, and it was actually a war, and she needed to look for money for tanks, for weapons, but at the same time needed to build a state. She then said that only that country would become a large country that wanted to build a country from which she wanted to go only on vacation or to which her sons and daughters were to return. In fact, her attitude toward public finances has always taken precedence. She said that corrupters and those who steal money from the government budget should be likened to those who betray Ukraine. We think very little about it. The two bills that now stand in order of the day, in the next, are actually about what needs to be done about public finances. We say very often: State finances, forgetting that in 15 years the previous president signed the Transparency of Public Finance Act after a long struggle. And public finances are also allocated to the general public social insurance costs. Each European country is budgeting all public finances in the budgetary process. We do not even include public social insurance costs in the budget. I'm not talking about the damage and profits of public enterprises and other types of public finances. In fact, this bill, 2743, it includes in the State budget, it does not count, it is very often miscalculated, it includes in the State budget, which means that all of us in the budgetary process for each year must see wage funds, the amount of the sole social contributions, and the distribution of public compulsory social insurance between social insurance funds: The pension fund, the FSS, and the Unemployment Fund. I think there's a lot of corruption, and it needs to be canceled. There's no normal accounting, it's done by quasi-method. It's not an accounting method, it's not a cash account, it's intermediate. They run three balances, three corrosives, as they call them. There's no financial reporting, there's no audit, because they're non-profit organizations. This bill only takes a small step to ensure that these finances are transparent, they are included in the state budget. The bill considered this bill on February 21st of that year and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt this bill as a basis and correct, if there is, the mistakes that you can make to this bill for a second reading. Please support this bill because it is a step towards transparency of public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u151	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to the author of the alternative bill, the national deputy of the Ukraine of Natalia Yuriovna Kraljevska. Who will be the coauthor? There's no Jury, there's gonna be a co-author. Who's the singer? Okay, no authors. That's why we're moving on to the discussion procedure. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss these bills? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Mealik Viktor Nichiporovich, the MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u152	Please give it to Shorty Annie.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u153	Anna Constantine's Speedboat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I think, given your second year of caedence, you need to take the Constitution and at least read it, get acquainted with this great book. Because all the bills you put in the session room, they're not just antisocial and anti-constitutional. And it's just a crime, your crime in front of the people of Ukraine. I don't know, maybe it's the oligarchs that make you adopt these laws, because, of course, you won't get the conversion. But the honourable colleagues that you do, if you just destroy the very essence of the insurance in us and you're just violating the parity of the three sides to the social dialogue, you're removing the principle that a social dialogue is built in all the developed countries of the world. You're canceling the possibility of influencing the social policy of the government, the Federation of Employers and the Ukrainian trade unions. Ukrainian labour law is the best in the world. And if you know, even Europe has based a lot of its legislation on our legislation. Now you're just destroying him with all kinds of bills. All those who vote in favour of the bill are voting against the people of Ukraine. You sold the land, you motherfuckers last barely breathing business. And you know, by such laws, you just turn people into slavery. Let us, perhaps, when all of you are buried in the Ukrainian land, you know, you are referred to as a good silent word, but on the other hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u155	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Belenjuk Jean Wensanovic, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u156	Please pass the word Mikishi Dmitri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u157	Dmitri Sergiyovich Mikisha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u158	Colleagues, the bill is completely different. No one here is going to die or spend any other budget. It's very simple. There is a self-governing organization like the Social Insurance Fund. What? This organization itself counts, self-uses, and most importantly, self-checks. Where is it? And I'll tell you another thing, it's not just the cost of the unions, it's the cost of the only social contribution, it's what each of us, every citizen of Ukraine, pays. Where does this cost go? Who can see that? Who's checking it out? This is exactly what the bill says, as a minimum, is that the House of Accounts, which has to check where the funds are spent, how effectively they are lost, and where. And you have to understand that everything that's going to be taxed should be used effectively. The Fund loses not only budgeting each year but also the efficiency of using it. Let's stop this disgraceful practice of just spending billions of dollars nowhere. As a minimum, the Court of Auditors should verify this and this is the first bill in the context of the reform of the Social Insurance Fund. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support this. These costs must be transparent and also be used in a transparent, cost-effective way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u159	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u160	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u161	Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, I took note of and examined the very strict draft law. I want to tell you that, for example, in the explanatory note, the accompanying documents in general do not say that this bill will have a socio-economic effect. I thought, at least in numbers, that we would get, maybe there would be another EU stake or there would be another calculation, other taxes, or there would be an increase in the pension. It wasn't all in these documents, he's not, unfortunately. What is more, if we focus on some of the rules that, for example, there will be authorizations for the Court of Auditors to carry out a financial audit and so on, certainly, no one is opposed to having the Court of Auditors monitor as effectively as possible and then analyze how taxpayers' costs are used. But the very norm that applies to the efficiency of using social insurance, well, we haven't seen that Ukrainian citizens get higher standards than they have today. I'd like to remind you that in the 2022 State Budget project that we've been given, there's actually no change in the size of the minimum pension, for example, at the end of December. And for the first six months, we're going to live by these parameters, there's 1,936 bracelets, if I'm right, in memory. 1934, excuse me, bracelets. But worst of all. If we were to adopt legislative initiatives that at least compensate for the minimum pension and minimum wage, we would have more than 90 percent of Ukrainian citizens get a decent pension, there, for example, 6 thousand 500 or 6 thousand 700 dollars. That would be a minimum pension rate. And we would have moved on from it. These are serious costs and these breakthrough documents would be for this Supreme Council. Thus today, we do not really see why we should vote for the appropriate legislative initiatives. Our faction and our social block. The humanitarian bloc introduced eight alternative bills. We will insist on their acceptance. And we don't support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u163	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, the faction of "European Solidarity". That's how I understand it, Nina Petrovna Jujanina, they're passing on the word, right? Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I went out with the Constitution of Ukraine for free. And I want you to take another look at the article of the first major law of the country. It seemed to me that when I saw yesterday's package of these bills in order, it would be blocked not only by opposition, but also by the "ministers of the people" who had worked out the standards of these draft laws. You also take on a great deal of responsibility. And you certainly didn't get 73 percent of the voters who voted for you. If they knew that from today’s first reading, the normal working relationship that they had throughout their lifetime would disappear from the creation and general existence of the Ukrainian Labour Code. Of course, it's got a lot of, it's got a lot of rudiments to undo, but it doesn't create conditions for even more favourable destruction by the state, by the "slaves of the people" and by some factions involved. Note the preceding law that has been passed. He's supposed to be causing a lot of resistance in the hall, but he's not. Now, about this bill. Tell me, please, that Marcenk's words about not getting a pension in his 40 ’ s are a reality in accordance with this law. Because it's not just a payment to the EU on some account, it's a special account of the state budget, it's a general fund of the state budget. And if the budget doesn't have the cost of the budget, then the pension will be directed as much as it can afford without taking into account the deficit that we're covering, without taking into account the only social contributions that all of our future work is focused on. And we're talking about developing this system to get wages out of the shadows and motivate people to send the EU because it's your future. And now the EU in the general budget means that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, also Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko, Shahov, I see Sergey Volodymyrovich and then we go to the vote. No one else wants to speak. Vadim Eugeneovich, please, 1 minute of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u166	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, you can't see that this is a raid on the insurance fund. It's not a novelty. In the world, the International Labour Organization. The convention clearly states that the management of insurance funds should be carried out separately from the administration of public finances. What is happening in Ukraine? And if you remember the past, please see when these insurance funds were in the central budget? The constants were non-payments, non-earmarked use, the deputies put it in one place, and the second, in the third. And that's rehabilitation payments, that's disability payments, colleagues. And so far these funds are being run by the state, the employers and the trades. And this is international practice. Where do you think you're going? We do not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, another speech by the national deputy Shahov, then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u168	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". As Vadim Yvchenko rightly said, there is a government raid by either Kabmin or the officials. Audit is certainly needed in all areas of life in Ukraine. Who's going to be responsible for 1.5 percent of the people who pay their taxes on the army, and today our fighters who sit in trenches don't get paid in the army? When will the audiences in the Luhansk district of Kabmin be able to see the seventh school, where did the area send 12 million bracelets, and today the roof is running? Broke fences, not stolen 10 percent of the way they were caught, but 70.80 percent. Next, what do we do? UNICEF's money is being robbed. The city of Eusuvius, let experts go and see what they did to the school -- 68 million dollars spent, not spent, just stole. Where you can't look, there's looting everywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt bill No. 2743 amending some Ukrainian legislation on the effectiveness of the use of social insurance funds. Once again, Bill 2743 is the basis. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[13:33:26]] For 243 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. The law is adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill we're going to consider today is Bill 3115 and Law 3115-1. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in Case of Unemployment". Before I go to this bill, I would like to propose a vote to consider this issue in a simplified manner. I remind you that it takes 150 votes to make a decision. Please support and vote. [[13:34:19]] For 252 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights to speak to Galina Mikolayevna Trelyakow. Also, I understand, both from the author and from the committee, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u170	The second bill, and the lady who was speaking here, confused the speeches, and the bill on the inclusion of social insurance funds in the budget counted it as Law 3115. Now you have to speak with what you've done before. The point is that social insurance funds, which, as my colleague said, are self-governing organizations, are non-profitable. In fact, in two years of committee work, they have never brought to the committee the amount of social insurance expenses they predict for the following year, the amount of the only social contribution that would be sufficient for the State to carry out its commitment at the right time. They came out of Fatherland and said there was a debt. So the government, which includes the unions, employers and the state, has never once brought to the Committee on Financial Accounts, and which is to be paid, and what is to be the only social contribution to make it enough to pay insurance payments during hospital letters or to lose a person's job, to keep working, I mean disability. The size of the contributions is not fixed, the government does not set. Payments are not fixed. In general, the cost of handling matters is kept on a separate balance, which is financed on time, hospital letters finance with three months of debt and raise flags, as if by authority that has only a third. The state doesn't have the majority it has in the ILO. The International Labour Organization works according to principles: 51 percent belong to government agencies and only 49 percent to social partners. Where is the income from the use of property by the Social Insurance Fund, which is a shareholder of Ukrproftura and Ukrprofession? It's actually a secret for, I don't know, a number of seals, it's not even seven. Debt is three months in which no action is taken by the government to compensate the damage that comes at the expense that I have already mentioned. So we want to bring in the management structures of the fund, now it's a unemployment fund only, up to 8-3-3, where the state has an overwhelming number of votes. We can discuss whether this 7-3-3 is going to be on the second reading. But the point is that the state that is now subsidizing all social insurance funds from the state budget should have control over them. Moreover, those who now run these funds do not exercise their authority under the law. The Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights considered the bill at its meeting and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in its first reading. Thank you, distinguished national deputies, in advance. Not only is it transparent, but it's also financially sound, and it's clear that the system defined by the Constitution, 46 articles, not 1st. Article 46 of the Constitution lays down the principles of compulsory public social insurance, and there should be insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u171	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. I would like to invite the author of an alternative bill from the Ukrainian national deputy Gnatenka Valeri Sergiyovich. Please, Valery Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I have been thoroughly familiar with draft Act No. 3115, which proposes to radically change the basic organisational procedures and principles of the Public Social Insurance Fund in case of unemployment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposed initiatives actually lead to deformation and destruction, in fact, the very institution of social insurance management itself, because they directly relate to, firstly, to the changes and composition of the management of the Fund with radical changes, the distortion of representatives from the State, and secondly, the change in the order in which the Head of the Fund is elected, and the order in which meetings are held and decisions taken by governments, which in practice means the establishment of reinforcements and, in fact, monopolistic state control over the Fund's activities. This gross approach violates both the national legislative foundations of the tripartite social dialogue and Ukraine’s international commitments made in ratifying relevant ILO conventions. In my view, it is totally unacceptable that the draft registration number 3115, proposed by the authors, cynically ignores the position of two other sides of the social dialogue – the All-Ukrainian Union of Trade and Employers, who clearly disagree with the destruction of the principles of parity and the administration of the state insurance system. I want to emphasize that this is already the second attempt at cynical destruction of internationally accepted standards in the form of governance of this system. Similar approaches to destroying parity and social dialogue, transforming government into three representatives from insured persons and employers and eight representatives from the state. I remind you that in accordance with article 3 of the Law on Social Dialogue in Ukraine, the management of the fund is an organ of social dialogue and should be guided by the principle of independence and equal rights of the parties. I also want to propose and highlight what is proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u173	Thank you, Valery Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss these bills? Before that, there were arguments, but there are all of them. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. Who wants to discuss this bill? The word is given to National Deputy Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, MP of the Party "For the Future".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u174	Please pass the word to Anton Eduardoovich Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u175	Anton Eduardoovich Polakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, once again, the reporter spoke of one thing, and in fact, if you read the bill, it's another. And now we're with you, if we're in plain language, we see how the authorities are destroying what's bothering them are trade unions. Because there are so many state-owned enterprises that can work, and when authorities want to shut them down, those who fight with workers are usually trade unions. And now they just want to clean them up because they tell us that they can't do anything. But we all know that the experience of the same foreign countries shows that the creation at the legislative level of the representative bodies of all social partners is only possible on parity grounds. Not when from fifteen to eight from the State of Representatives, but three from trade unions and three from employers, but from five from each side to make it really a social dialogue. And only then will the interests of the Ukrainians be protected, the interests of those who work, who pay the taxes that you're in the Council, you work and you get your salary. If we remove the unions now instead of taking over the influence of one of the oligarchs on these structures, it'll just be a fight against the consequences. So let's not do the propaganda, but really do the Ukrainians. We will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u177	The word is given to the national deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u178	I'd like to give Nina Petrovni a word with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u179	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Thus, the preceding Law 2743 includes the funds of the Ukrainian Pension Fund and the funds of the State - bound social insurance system. And the second question is to give the House of Accounts of Ukraine the authority to verify the Pension Fund and the Fund for National Social Insurance. It is completely unclear why the authors of these projects do not distinguish contributions that are inherently different from taxes and that they miss everything in the state budget. And if you have any strategy, you will. Immediately announce that you have enjoyed breaking the structure of payments and will collect from all of you and manage for which funds and how much to spend. But 3115 is a continuation of this strategy, which has already been sounded by this authority. In my opinion, 3115 is the path to a "secret union", not to the European Union, because this openness to decision-making, a social dialogue, was completely misunderstood. Have you found it difficult to work with five representatives from all branches to share in the consideration of issues? Do you want to make decisions and change the structure of all social insurance funds in general? I think it's completely wrong philosophy. So I think, Ukrainians, pay attention and please give your answer to all of these incursions, to all the social benefits that the state has to make. You've always paid contributions, you've known about the existence of funds, and it's the mechanism for spending money from these funds. Now the state, then the "ministers of the people" will determine how much they give you for every payment. We'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u181	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Soboljevo Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of the political party "All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u182	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this bill is not about the European conditions of cooperation of the labour union. This bill destroys tripartism, the principle of which is shared by all the world’s societies, especially on European principles. In short, the foundation was composed of five states, five employers, and five trade unions. It is proposed that eight from the state and three from the unions and employers. All will be approved by a representative of the State. And now he's in charge of two years: two years of unions, two years of employers, two years of government representation. Now it's going to be completely from the state. This, once again, will be a very serious response from international law-enforcement, labour-protectors, reaction unions if this bill is passed. This is going to be a black day for the cooperation of trade unions and employers. Regrettably, the committee’s discussion did not provide an opportunity to support the position of trade unions and employers. Sadly, this is a sad reality. Such a bill cannot be approved. Even the Chief Legal Expert Office recommended that it be returned to work. They fear themselves for the future. And the monogamy must be living today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u183	Thank you. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u184	Klimenko. I would like to refer to this bill, of course, and in general today to the issue of reform of working relations and social relations in time. As time goes on, working relationships change, new sectors of the economy are emerging, which are not regulated by old fast - moving legislation, and this solves the hands of many employers who can hire more people and not hire them in the shadows. I want to tell you the statistics, if you compare the number of employees hired, and, more faithfully, the number of people unemployed in the first quarter of the 21st year to the 20th year, you'll see that the number of unemployed has increased by 257,000, to 1.8 million people. These people are, in part, not unemployed, they're people who are partly in the shadowy actual employment that they work as slaves. So let small and medium-sized businesses hire normal people, free normal people, solve parts of economic sectors that can grow at a much higher rate than they are now. Because all of these people work, all of them work, and the state, unfortunately, won't get a penny of tax out of it, and that should be the other way around. But I'm pointing out that all of these funds and everything that we're talking about right now are being wasted in the flesh and in the emptiness. No unemployment support program is effective, 24 percent of young people are busy, 24 percent are busy, 75 percent are unable to find their first job and cannot be busy. These are terrible numbers, colleagues. Let's make sure that the programs and the money of these funds are used for our young people, for the development of our country. Let us look to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who would like to make a statement on this matter? Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Shahov. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies please return to the Hall. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u186	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, do you need social security for people who are unemployed? Of course you do. Please tell me, can you give people a job? Why are our Ukrainians, who are now known as laborers, hadharbytes, counting $14 billion in Ukraine? Where is this money coming from? Maybe we should start this money to rebuild factories, mines, factories, give people jobs? What's going on, ladies and gentlemen? Where do billions of dollars go that people in Ukraine, breaking into blood across the border, count here? Why is it that the sinking shafts are not being rebuilt today? Technological disaster, environmental disaster. How much can we talk about this? Why do ordinary workers today have to go begging?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u187	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. There are no more speakers. That's why I'm inviting the people's deputies into the hall. While I am voting, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance for Unemployment (project 3115). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready to vote? Then I ask you to support and vote. [[13:51:28]] For 229 Decision taken. The law was adopted as a basis. Show me the factions, please. Thank you. Next, we're going to consider the next bill in order, registration number 5266 and 5266-1. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection of workers' rights. Before I go to the point, I propose that we consider this issue in a simplified way. I remind you that 150 votes are required to make a decision. Please support and vote. [[13:52:20]] For 242 Decision taken. I invite Deputy Minister of Economy Głushchenko Svetlan Volodymirovn to present Bill 5266. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u188	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The draft law is designed to implement the agreements provided for in Articles 291 and 420 of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU and concerns employment security, discrimination, the recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the empowerment of social partners and the promotion of social dialogue, as well as the implementation of specific provisions of the European Union directives, conventions and recommendations of the International Labour Organization and the European Social Charter. In general, the draft law proposes mandatory reports by trade unions on planned mass release, clarification of the order of information and consultation in the case of enterprises of several professional organizations, clarification of the criteria for the mass release of workers from the employer’s initiative depending on their number, ensuring the right of all employees to collective bargaining, including those working with employers of natural persons, the possibility of extending the collective agreement to all employers of the relevant sector. The project also gives the parties the right to determine the terms of the terms of the collective agreement in the event of restructuring, the change of the owner of the legal person and the right to freedom of negotiations. At the same time, workers are also entitled to information about the terms of the collective agreement that extends to them, not only at the beginning of their work, but if such an agreement is concluded later and in the event of any changes to the agreement. In addition, a list of restrictions that are not considered to be discrimination in the field of work depends on the specific type of work required: age, education, sex, health, or social and legal protection of certain categories of workers. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u189	Thank you, Svetlana Volodymyr. The word is given to the author of the alternative bill to the national MP, Volodymyr Viktorovich. Galina Mikolayevna, one second, you're not Frost Vladimir Viktorovich. There's an alternative. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail Yes. Please, Vladimir Viktorovich, I didn't see you, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Moroz, 59 constituency, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I have carefully studied the government project. 5266) and in general, I would like to support its individual positions relating to improving the social protection of hired workers. At the same time, the Kabmin project contains a number of norms that will potentially lead to deterioration of social and labour relations through government-proposed partial disregard for the participation of the social sectors and the abolition of their institutional role. I want to emphasize that the Social Dialogue Institute is the foundation behind the modern development of the entire system of socio-working relations. And this foundation is founded centuries ago by the very establishment of the International Labour Organization (1919), which considers social dialogue the cornerstone of its work, which is absolutely essential for guaranteeing the basic social and labour rights of people, achieving quality employment, support, economic growth and the formation of a more inclusive society. Thus, first, we have prepared an alternative project (registration). 5266), which, unlike the main project, is proposed not to impose restrictions on the sex of workers who will not be considered to be discrimination in the field of labour. The Kabmin approach suggested that the imposition of such restrictions is contrary to part 22 of the Labour Code, which does not allow for the establishment of sex requirements. Applying such an approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u191	Thank you, Volodymyr Viktorovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights to meet Mr. Trelyakow Galina Mikolayovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u192	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! On April 16, 21, the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights considered Bill 5266 and an alternative to it. I would like to point out here that the parties to the social dialogue that took part in the debate on this bill and who carried out this very social dialogue at the stage of the government's work on this bill, so they pointed out at the committee meeting that held appropriate consultations on this bill, as well as on Bill 5388, which was adopted on the first reading today. In general, he is accepted. As for the comments they have made regarding the bill, they can be settled in the stage of its preparation for second reading. So we celebrate what you've been talking about, including social dialogue, this is a tripartite council that already has a head today, and has, in addition to everything else, to make collective agreements and general agreements that have not always been implemented, not by all governments. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection of workers' rights to adopt a first reading and recommend rejecting another. Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u193	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, the traditional question, is there a need to discuss this bill, these bills, these two, right? There's a need. That's why I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. The only request is that whoever writes "for" should say "for", who writes "against" should say "against". This is the requirement of the Rules. Please. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u194	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u195	Irina Heratschenko, please. Irina Volodymyrna, Irina Volodymyrna. I'm sorry, it doesn't say twice, my friends. Irina Volodymyr. Come on, please, we're going to have Irina Volodymyrna today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today is a social or pseudosocial day. We see a lot of initiatives aimed at labour legislation. Regrettably, it is largely directed at limitations of rights, not at strengthening them. We see an expansion of the power of the state, an expansion of the state's ability to receive additional revenue, but in a very questionable way. Because we see, unfortunately, that the authorities chose instead of the announced delligarchization to choose the tactics of attacking the middle class, attacking the small and medium-sized business. And including in this bill, we will have to look very carefully at the second reading of the rules that apply to the conclusion of contracts among enterprises founded by natural persons, so that we do not, in this case, create opportunities to restrict the development of enterprises, not to protect rights. And on the other hand, if we're saying that we're drawing up some categories of relationship from the notion of discrimination, these things need to be written much more accurately than what this bill is proposing. So we'll figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u197	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, the MP's "Trust". Peter Andryovich, right? Please pass it on to Petra Andryovich. Paul Andryovich, I'm sorry, Bakuntz.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u198	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Of course, this document that we are currently considering is primarily to help workers. It enables workers to increase their rights and provides transparency in employers’ activities. The bill provides for specific changes to labour legislation and provides for the possibility of a contract of employment for natural persons who employ employment. In addition, the employer’s responsibility for mass layoffs or the untimely notice of their possible release has been increased. There is also a great deal of responsibility for unwarranted advertising about employment, which is very important in today’s world when there are too many unscrupulous ads on the Internet, people seeking employment. This document actually contains these signs of a collective agreement as a fundamental treaty to protect the rights of our workers. Of course, it needs to be further worked out. So the Trust MPs propose to vote in the first reading with some of his standards for second reading, because our employees, and especially the teachers that we have mentioned today, as in Lviv, Ivano-Frankish, Lugansk, Winnitz, are communities where they are under pressure, even though they are doing their job well, they are inoculating, teaching our children, our future, but they don't end up getting paid by the employer. The state does not fully provide them with a guaranteed wage. We will talk about this and remind everyone from this high rostrum until our teachers and all the workers are given decent working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u199	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Petrovich Labazyuk, the MP's Party for the Future. Sergey Rudik, I understand, you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u200	Please give it to Rudik Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u201	Mr. Sergei Ruddick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u202	Dear Ukrainians, all day today in this room are pretending to be people of work, wiping the feet of the trade unions. Now people can be set free without agreeing with them. Soccer funds were essentially torn apart. Believe me, now there's going to be a second reading, and in about a week we're waiting for another brilliant government initiative, which they're playing the initiative of this Rasovsky prisoner, to take all the property of the unions. But among all of this, there is one bill that can be supported by teething. This is the one we're talking about right now. They also wipe their feet a little bit about the unions, and now people can be released without warning from the unions. But at least there are some basic obligations for employers. Now the employer will be obliged, if we support him, to inform the employee of the terms of the collective agreement and, consider giving him the right to copy the agreement. He will hang him on the wall and be happy every day that he was released but informed. Now he has the right to protest and say, "Dear Mr. Employer, you are our dear oligarch, thank you for informing me about this." And it's a huge credit to this monotonousness. We will, of course, go to the second reading and this bill, and everyone else will try to correct it. But looking at how monotonous "Serial of the People," "Trust" and "Golos" is killing the rights of workers, it's getting harder and harder for us to explain it to people in the hall. So wait for people on the streets now, they'll tell you what they think.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, I invite you to speak to the National Deputy of Ukraine of Labunski Angelika Viktorovna, the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. I see Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, but I want to say that this is the last recorded speaker. Does anyone else want to speak? And if not, then next time we're voting. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u204	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honourable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, People's Deputies! In fact, we've heard a presentation by a government representative of another bill that supposedly organizes employment agreements with an employer, even if he's a natural person, with an employee. First of all, it's a positive idea at first sight, but it contains a number of comments that the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has pointed out. Will it be possible to work on the second reading? Let's see what the changes are, what the position of the committee is. First of all, the law is written in such a way that there are definitions that are not fully legally justified. For example, more favorable conditions are created for the worker. So this is an appreciable phenomenon, in our opinion, that we need to work on the second reading. We also feel that it is very prudent to write out the final edition so that it is not conducive when we are a natural person who has hired two or more employees, thus driving his work into the shadows. As a result, I reiterate, we need to work very carefully on the second reading. If you look at an alternative bill, it's more perfect, according to the experts of the Fatherland. I think that if these rules are taken into account in the second reading, the law will become more balanced. So far, the Motherland team can't vote in favour, we're holding back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u205	Thank you. Dear colleagues, does anyone else wish to speak out from political factions or groups? No one wants to. So I'm going to ask the national deputies to take their seats. And I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt Bill No. 5266 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the protection of workers' rights. Once again, Bill 5266, the committee's proposal to accept this bill as a basis. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:09:19]] For 296 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Thank you, Your Honor. Next, we go to the next question, Bill No. 5161 and Bill No. 5161-1. You don't want to talk about it, do you, Arthur Volodymyrovich? You write these changes to the Rules and we'll follow your procedure while we follow the Rules. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of certain non-standard forms of employment. Dear colleagues, before I go into the matter of content, I am asking questions about the consideration of these two bills by a reduced procedure. I remind you that we need 150 votes to make a decision, so please support and vote. [[14:10:40]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the floor of the Deputy Minister of Economics of Svetlan Volodymyrovní Głushchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u206	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! In fact, it is a draft of the Law on Flexibility in the Election of Labour Relations, as well as on increasing the mobility of workers when they exercise their right to work. The bill proposes the introduction of a specific type of contract of employment, a contract of employment with non-fixed working hours, and identifies its main legal elements. In addition, a legislative basis for regulating the work of Freelancers is being created. At the legislative level, employers are given the opportunity to engage workers to perform jobs that are not permanent but are repeated. In addition, the EU’s recruitment procedure has also been improved for those who use the work of workers on an irregular basis. In general, the adoption of this bill will contribute, first, to the settlement of some non-standard forms of employment, especially for those who perform work on a non-permanent but repeated basis. It also increases the level of social protection and provides a full package of social and labour guarantees for those who perform part-time but repeated work, particularly with regard to Freelancers, and provides operators with additional opportunities to choose the most optimal system for organising labour relations and managing labour resources. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u207	Thank you, Svetlana Volodymyr. I give the floor to the author of the alternative bill to the national deputy of Ukraine Valery Sergiyovich Gnatenka. Please, Valery Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, I have carefully studied this Bill 5161, which has many claims and what we want to propose in our alternative bill. First, to resolve the requirements for the content of labour legislation, the contract with non-fixed working hours, to include the most extensive information. I'm not going to read it, I think maybe then I'll get to know her. Secondly, to propose, to establish rules on the conditions of pay, which indicates that a contract of employment with non-fixed working hours lays down the conditions of pay which may provide for the payment of wages. Thirdly, the alternative project is to grant the right to an employee who works under a fixed-term employment contract for at least six months, to require the owner or authorized authority to make a full-time or part-time employment contract. And fourthly, it's proposed to increase the limit from one to two contracts concerning the possibility of entering into contracts with non-fixed working hours for legal persons or natural persons who are entrepreneurs who employ less than ten employees. I believe that the proposed bill will contribute to a more flexible approach to employment, which is particularly important in times of crisis and in ensuring a post-pandemic recovery of the national labour market. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u209	Thank you, Valery Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights, Galina Mikolayovna Trelyakow. Please, Galina Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights on April 12, 2021, discussed a bill of government on the introduction of a new type of employment contract in Ukraine, a contract of employment with fixed working hours. The positive is that it, by adopting this bill, provides a solution to the issue of non-standard forms of employment for people who work on a non-permanent basis. The committee thus considered the bill. The joint representative body of representative U.S. trade unions, of which so many are mentioned today, has made proposals that can be settled from first to second reading, if the national MPs and the working group of all the representatives who will apply. The typical form of the labor contract, as mentioned today, will be worked out by the Ministry of Economic Development, and this basic contract should contain the number of basic hours and cannot be more than 40 hours a day, 40 hours, but the number of days in which people work is no more than six. That is not 40, but it may be a five - day or six - day week depending on how the hired worker and the employer agreed. Hence, there are no violations here in this bill, as in previous ones, which could be mentioned, conventions or other international agreements. As a result of the consideration of this and the alternative bill, the committee recommends that the bill be adopted by the prime government on the basis of number 5161. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u211	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss these two bills? Of course there is, I see. I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Krachod Annie Constantineni, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, we do have a lack of a contract of employment with unfixed working hours today, which is why I think it's a pretty nice initiative, given that a lot of employers abuse civil and legal contracts to prevent people from forming jobs. So this form, the introduction of such a form of employment contract, can really change this situation and at least protect the workers. There are a number of inaccuracies in this bill that need to be removed before the second reading. For example, the project requires the employer to pay at least 32 hours a month for the employee’s work, even if the work was done within a short period of time. However, if such an agreement is to be made, the payment must be actually made according to the working time and according to the work done. At the same time, the treaty is quite popular in the world and is used in many developed countries. That's why we support this legislative initiative, and the MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u213	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, faction of the Fatherland. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u214	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. At last, it's positive, because in fact, this legislative initiative brings positive things about making a contract with a part-time job/day person, i.e. time. This is actually a positive, and the "Paternity" faction will support it in the first reading. But his, this bill, should be improved to the second reading, because, by the way, the alternative wears some positive things, they should be transferred to the main government for which the "Paternity" team will vote. With regard to certain things and inaccuracies, it is, in particular, 32 hours for which the employer will be obliged to pay, even if the employee has not worked. So we need to look for mechanisms to encourage the employer himself to make such agreements. The warning also raises a position that, by the way, is contained in both bills on the possibility of setting up non-fixed working hours in employment contracts, additional grounds for its termination. This, of course, can lead to a violation of workers’ rights. As a result, the second reading will need to be improved. The Motherland faction on the first reading will vote with green buttons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u215	Thank you, Mikhailovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Zinkevich Jani Vadimovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u216	Please pass the word to Rostislav Pavlovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u217	Rostislav Pavlenko, please. You've already been named correctly this time. Please, Rostislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u218	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the subject of the bill is important because there are indeed professions that need individual study and attention. Indeed, the second reading will be something to do because there are some shortcomings in this bill, such as how the obligation to pay a single social contribution arises and so forth. But this is a case where it can really be processed into second reading. But, dear colleagues, there are categories of workers who are precisely working under extraordinary working conditions under abnormal working hours and who are doing much more work than is prescribed by any job or employment contracts. These are our military and our doctors. And unfortunately, in both categories, debt is allowed — or 1.5 billion in front of military, almost 300 million in front of doctors. And that's why both parliament and government have to give priority. Today we've put project 6052 in order of our consideration. There's a certain increase in these categories, but somehow 19 billion in different directions are once again going back to stealing. We demand that the daily bill 6006 be similarly considered and put into order, which deals with the allocation of $10 billion to repay debt and to increase the maintenance of military personnel, as well as the increase in wages, the end of the commitment to our doctors and to our pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u219	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Jurčin Jaroslav Romanović, faction of the political party "Golos". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u220	Jurchisin, the Justice Union. Please pass the word to Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u221	Please pass the word to Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u222	Klimenko, "Justice." I want to point out, colleagues, that those countries that have liberalized their labour legislation over the past two and three decades have had the biggest growth in the economy, the biggest growth in GDP, so I urge colleagues to look at it and more liberalize labour legislation for small, medium-sized businesses, for certain sectors so that people can officially work so that they can officially hire. As far as this bill is concerned, it is certainly progressive to introduce a fixed-term contract. In fact, there's a lot in the IT sector right now, a lot of services are working on these contracts, they're actually there, they're just formed by different hybrid versions of CFCs and other contracts. So let's actually legitimize where there are many sectors of the economy. Of course it is. We got a lot of, let's say, letters from employers, from associations saying that this contract and this law should still be worked out, because it does not fully allow employers and workers to make these contracts with fixed working hours. So in practice this law in the first reading is unfortunately not going to work. But we're going to apply for second reading, and hopefully we'll support it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear colleagues, would anyone else like to make a statement on these bills? I don't see anyone who wants to. So I'm going to ask the people's deputies to take their seats and we're going to vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of certain non-standard forms of employment (project registration number 5161). Once again, I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt this bill. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:25:14]] For 327 Decision taken. The committee. I'm sorry, the bill was adopted as a basis. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. The next bill we have is 4669 and an alternative to it is 4669. These are drafts of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the implementation of aid for the economic reintegration of migrant workers. Dear colleagues, before I go to this project's consideration of the content, I would like to put to the vote the proposal to consider these bills in a simplified manner. I remind you that 150 votes are required for adoption. Please support and vote. [[14:26:13]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to the floor of Deputy Minister of Economy Glushchenko Svetlan Volodymyrovn. Please, Svetlana Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u224	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine! The annual increase in labour migration flows has provided a basis for finding ways to preserve the employment potential in Ukraine and to facilitate the return of our Ukrainians to their homes. The draft law introduces a programme to promote investment by Ukrainian citizens abroad in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Ukraine, particularly through the provision of economic reintegration assistance. The bill proposes to amend Ukraine's employment laws, as well as "On the mandatory public social insurance for unemployment" by introducing an appropriate programme. It is predicted that assistance for the economic reintegration of migrant workers will be provided by means of two sources of insurance. This is from the budget of the National Social Insurance Fund in case of unemployment on a non-refundable basis – for those citizens who have more than 10 years of insurance and for the state budget of Ukraine on a return basis – for those citizens of Ukraine who have less than 10 years of insurance. One condition for receiving such assistance is the investment of funds received by a migrant worker from paid activities abroad, in the initiation or development of his own entrepreneurial activities in Ukraine. The size of the investment must be proportional, but no less, the State’s assistance. The procedure for providing such assistance will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It is predicted that the amount of such assistance in the 22nd year will be up to 150,000 dollars per labour migrant. In general, this bill to stimulate the return of migrant workers to Ukraine, to encourage them to invest in funds made abroad, in Ukraine, and to promote the creation of new jobs in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention, and I also ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u225	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy of Gnatenka Valeri Sergiyovich, author of the alternative bill. Please, Valery Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, I have carefully studied Government Bill 4669. In general, I would like to support his social commitment to solving these issues. But there are some suggestions that need to be taken into account. And according to the Ministry of Social Policy, more than 3 million people are working abroad today, while seasonal labour migration from Ukraine exceeds 9 million people. But more realistic expert estimates show that up to 10 million Ukrainian citizens are working abroad today, accounting for more than 30 percent of the country’s working population. And today, Ukrainian wage earners are actively developing the economy of Eastern Europe, Russia, and other countries. What do we personally propose in our alternative bill? Unlike the main project, it is proposed: First. Legislatively, the only source of funding for the economic reintegration of migrant workers in the form of payment of assistance to them to open up their own business to the public budget provided in the Fund’s budget for Ukraine’s general government social insurance in case of unemployment. The other one. It is proposed to establish a standard for the payment of assigned assistance in the economic reintegration of migrant workers irrespective of the size of their employment. The insurance internship. Third. The alternative project is that this law will apply from January 1, 22, but it takes effect from the day of its publication. This approach will allow for the start of applications for assistance in the economic reintegration of migrant workers in the current year and for the provision of adequate funds in the 22nd year State Budget project. Thank you and please support this alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u227	Thank you, Valery Sergiyovich. The word is given for a report to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the Protection of Veterans’ Rights to Galina Mikolayevna Trelyakowi. Galina Mikolayevna, your rostrum, please, you're a co-reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u228	Honorable National MPs, honourable chairman, Bill 4669 government and government are proposing to provide for workers who have returned to Ukraine with material assistance. But what I'm saying is that not everyone will get that kind of help, and if you count the age of people supported by this bill, in this case you'll see that there's no incentive for the return of young migrant workers. The committee at its meeting reviewed the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis. At the same time, we can consider, and it makes sense for this bill to allow the government to introduce a bill very quickly that would encourage the return of migrant workers not only in the age category but also in the youth category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u229	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Please register: two in, two in. The word is given to Ukrainian national deputy Klimenko Julia Leonidini, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u230	Klimenko, "Justice." I want to tell the drafters of the Cabinet of Ministers bill, as well as colleagues from the Committee of Social Policy, that first of all we need to develop legislation so that we don't have young and economically active people. That's priority number one. Of course, we'll be happy and happy if our migrants, and I don't agree with a colleague, that their 3 million, their more than 5 million, if they come back to Ukraine, bring their money here, they'll continue to develop Ukraine with us, we'll be happy. But first of all, we have to make sure that we don't have an economically active population that is now leaving Ukraine about 1 million people a year. That's why I'm talking to the government. We'll be happy if you also submit this bill, we'll take part in encouraging people to stay here. As far as this bill is concerned. Of course, we support it because it's the right bill. Our Ukrainians should go home, we'll be happy to see them here. And I hope we can make effective funds that will make effective programmes to support these people, because these programs are not actually working right now. No social program works as effectively as it should. So let's do it at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers, and between the first and second readings, let's do it so that these programs can actually be implemented in practice, and let's get our people back to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u231	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Balozy Viktor Ivanovich, MP Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u232	Please give Polakov the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u233	Polakov Anton Eduardoovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, you had this opportunity to hear another story from the fairy tale government of Hans Christian Schmigal. 500,000 jobs they've already created, billions of investments they've brought into the country, and now they're promising to reintegrate our labour migrants. Who are you going to reintegrate if millions of people are leaving? And what are you going to do if we have 15 to 17 million Ukrainians in our international partners in a few decades? For these people, when will you think? For tariffs, for pensions, for normal wages, under normal business conditions? If you want to help them run a business, as you write in this bill, remember your promise in the elections. At the legislative level, we guarantee that there is no change in the applicable tax conditions for individuals in small businesses. This is what you promised the FOPs, and you violated the first week of the plenary after you chose the Ukrainians, so let's not do the farce again. And by the way, in this bill, again, there are repeated abuses, because it provides for the definition of the extent of aid for economic reintegration not directly in the law, but rather the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to do so. You know, after "great theft-building," I think everyone understands that something is being passed on, some distribution of money in Kabmen -- well, it's just suicide. So I urge you not to support the Kabmina farce. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u235	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vátrovitch Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u236	Please pass it on to Oleg the Synth.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u237	Please, Oleg Blue.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u238	Dear fellow national MPs, this is an extremely important bill that touches several million Ukrainians who are now outside our homeland, and these people have only counted $8.9 billion in Ukraine last year. But please tell me, is this money worth raising and raising children without parents, or is this money worth losing to Ukraine’s human potential? Of course not. But does this law really give rise to the return of migrant workers to Ukraine? Sadly, no. Because, please tell me, today's authorities created conditions when almost 500,000 unemployed in Ukraine reached a catastrophic 3.4 billion dollars in the last year, when foreign investments in Ukraine decreased by $868, when even in the military today the debt is 1.5 billion. Please tell me, are there such problems in other countries? Yes. But what does Bulgaria do? Bulgaria reduced the income tax of individuals to 10 percent. What is Poland doing? Poland adds additional investments to the creation of each individual job. What does the Ukrainian authorities do? And the Ukrainian authorities are forcing wage earners to bring money here, to put it on the bill, to tax it, and to wait for it to be done. And the Ukrainian authorities are proposing a bill of 5600, which will be a tax stamp on the neck of entrepreneurs, even those who have returned to Ukraine. It's a fairy tale, it's another pyar of power, but it needs to be supported on the basis of a bill that really will give rise to the return of migrant workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u239	The word is given to the National Deputy of Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u240	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Presidium, Honorable National Deputies, Honorable Ukrainians. It's actually a very interesting initiative from the government, but we expect the government to propose those legislative initiatives that will apply to the first place guarantees for every young Ukrainian who has completed a university or a higher secondary education institution. This is very important to create all the conditions for Ukrainian citizens not to go around the world in search of a better life. Indeed, even with the results of the previous Christmas year, it is the workers who have become the largest foreign investor in Ukraine that the Ukrainian authorities should remember. Next. This legislative act, which is proposed, will be supported by the "Paternity" team. But also, as always, we're going to be preparing amendments to improve it for second reading, we don't have to make a difference whether it's a citizen who came from abroad and registered as unemployed or a citizen who lost his job in Ukraine and is looking for it. Because that's why a citizen who's registered in the center of employment, after losing his job in the state of Ukraine, can get help for up to 40,000 dollars. Because whoever's back from abroad, the state is offering up to 150, but cleverly: So, once again, I emphasize, the task of authority is to do everything not just to turn around, but not to allow you to leave, but to create jobs here. Pensioners who come from abroad ask how we in the country of Ukraine can have decent old age. This is also a matter for the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u241	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who would like to discuss these bills? Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, one minute with motive. And then we're going to go to the vote. I'll ask the national deputies to take their seats. I now give the floor to Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u242	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, in keeping with this bill, I want to say that in fact last year, labour migrants counted 12 billion dollars from abroad. While the arrival of foreign direct investment was not that the zeros were negative, we had an outflow of almost a billion dollars of foreign direct investment in the 12 billion background. This is a serious cost, and this is confirmed because the Ukrainian budget does not have the economic capacity to fully reintegrate. The second moment that puzzles me is that the order of return of aid and other moments that will be confirmed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. To my profound conviction, this must be taken between the first and the second readings to make it impossible for these people to take all certain corruption risks. One more moment. Thus, there are permanent migrant workers, who are about 3 million Ukrainian citizens and who are temporary workers, up to 10 million Ukrainian citizens. They have to take this standard away in one year of compulsory employment because they cannot support and benefit from it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u243	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, who else? Sergei Shahov, one minute. Then we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u244	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". My dear colleagues, I'm certainly repeating, we need to look at our own production today, build our own factories, factories, allow today to develop an energy sector, not to close nuclear energy, which is the cheapest today, not to buy electricity in Russia and Belarus, but to produce in Ukraine, to get your coal, for which you are paying billions of dollars in advance, or dollars abroad in America and Africa. Today, our miner needs to be supported and paid and paid, and we need to build mines. And today he's robbing himself of reconstruction, not modernization of billions of dollars again. People don't have that kind of money in their heads because Grandma gets a million and a half dollars, and we're talking billions of dollars here. People today do not feel what the State is doing for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill, so I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of assistance for the economic reintegration of migrant workers (code number 4669). Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? Then please support and vote. [[14:44:07]] For-147 The decision is not taken. Then I am voting on the proposal to return the subject of the right of legislative initiative to draft a bill (registration number 4669) amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the implementation of assistance for the economic reintegration of migrant workers. Please support and vote. [[14:44:47]] For 330. Decision taken. The bill has been returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask you not to disagree, because the next question is, and it's going to be the extreme question that we are. [[B in m in s a l in]] How alternative, if we voted first, is to correct the subject. Dear colleagues, I'm moving on to the second question, to the inclusion of the project. [[B in m in s a l in]] The first decision is to correct the subject of the legislative initiative. Dear colleagues, yes, returned. Dear colleagues, the decision has been taken on the project. Dear colleagues, I'm going to move on to the next Bill 5831, this is a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislation that regulates the transplantation of anatomical materials to a human being. But this issue requires a vote on inclusion in the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I admit I was wrong. If you don't mind, I'll bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, help a person heal, he'll come and take his place. Dear colleagues, I, with your permission, take an alternative, alternative bill. And I put it in order, first on the basis, then on all the other issues. So I'm voting on draft Law 4669-1, a proposal to adopt as a basis. The committee did not make such an offer, so please identify yourself and vote. [[14:47:30.]] For 109 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. Return the subject, in accordance with article 114, to a specific order that determines what questions are raised. Therefore, the second point is the proposal to re-establish the subject of the legislative initiative. This is Bill 4669 with badge 1 prime. Please identify and vote. [[14:48:17]] For 124 The decision is not taken. The next suggestion, which may be in line with article 114, is to send a committee to prepare for the rereading of the first reading. Please identify and vote on Bill 4669-1. [[14:48:48]] For-93 The decision is not taken. This bill is considered rejected, thank you. Then we have a bill that we have adopted, 4669, to direct the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Let's move on. Motives are not allowed during this period. That's why we're moving to 5831, the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts Governing the Transplantation of Anatomic Material to Man. Once again, this question needs a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the session, it needs 226 votes. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to include Bill 5831 in the agenda. Please support and vote. [[14:49:52]] For 311 Decision taken. I shall then put to the vote the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. The vote also includes 226 votes. So please support and vote. [[14:50:19]] For 319 Decision taken. I also take the view that since we have already included it, consideration of this issue is limited. We need to get 150 votes. Please support and vote. [[14:50:45.]] For 257 Decision taken. Is there a need to discuss this bill? Please give a statement to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitri Oksana Alexandrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u246	Dear colleagues, a year and a half ago, in December 19th, you and I passed a law that gave rise to the construction of a transplant system in Ukraine. We've done more postmortem transplants than we have all of Ukraine's independence, we're already doing non-family bone marrow transplants that we've never done in Ukraine. We transplant hearts, and our patients don't go abroad for treatment, and we do all the transplants for free for our patients. Now, after a year and a half in the pilot project, we see that we still need to change, because our goal is Ukraine's transplant independence. The changes we're proposing are more technical. We're allowing us to make the procedure for consenting to a death donation comfortable, giving us a gratuitous consent or a disagreement on donations through electronic resources. The other one. Amendments to the law provide an opportunity to improve the algorithms for the selection of donor couples, a recipient of a correspondingly best match based on immunological indicators, taking into account the orderliness. A tissue transplant. We have a legislative basis for harmonising with the euro directives and implementing the provisions of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. Another important moment. We're allowing representatives of religious organizations to be added to the promotion of transplants. The bill also allows us to continue the transplant pilot project in the 23rd year. Every change is made to make the system that we started building a year and a half ago work perfectly. We're moving to stop the Ukrainians from going abroad. We're developing both an organ transplant and a bone marrow transplant. And the main thing is, we know how to do it. Please support Law 5831 as a basis. You and I have launched a transplant and now we have to be able to improve this system. So, colleagues, I ask you to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u247	The word is given for a report to the Head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Michael Borisovich Raducci. Please, Mikhailo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u248	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People’s Deputies of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council on National Health, Medical Care and Medical Insurance, reviewed draft Law 5831 at its meeting. Today, thanks to the legislative basis, the transplantation in Ukraine is rapidly developing. Recently, Ukraine’s first non-family bone marrow transplant to an adult patient in all its years of independence has been made, and this is a significant achievement of native medicine that needs to be developed and multiplied. The changes proposed by the bill are aimed at ensuring further development of transplantation in Ukraine, ensuring adequate financial security and moving from April 1, 23rd to funding under the medical safeguards programme. A number of comments and proposals have been made by the chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the bill, which the committee believes can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. In the light of the foregoing, the Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine that regulate the transplantation of anatomical materials to a person (registration number 5831) on the basis of the first reading to be adopted on the basis of the need to make changes to take account of the observed observations in other structural parts of the Ukrainian legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading but related to the subject of its legal regulation, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. Thank you and I'm very grateful for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u249	Thank you, Mikhail Borisovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedina Sofia Romanovni, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u250	Please give my word to my colleague Jani Zinkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u251	Jan Vadimovna Zinkevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u252	Thank you. Colleagues, this is a really important bill that allows us to normalize the legislative base on transplant issues. This is a huge achievement, which in the last five and a half years has actually carried out such a number of transplants, including from non-family donors. But I also want to thank our colleagues from the previous call that started this difficult journey, and they were the first to pass the first norms of the law. I also thank Mrs. Oksani Dmitry personally for having really been able to do it qualitatively, to continue it, to complete it, to bring it to a reasonable end, and it all works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u253	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, the MP's group "Trust". As long as the word is passed on to Sergey Volodymyrovich, I continue on to the chairman's right for 15 minutes, but until the question is completed, in fact. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u254	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Please pass the word to Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u255	Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u256	Honorable colleagues are certainly in need of a bill. It regulates everything about organ transplants and systems, it forms a register that really has to be effective, not like before, just on paper, donors. But, you know, we have to be very, very careful here. Because we understand that someone, you know, has to die to make someone in this system, to make someone live and live. So in order to avoid abuse, there is a very serious need for control. And I didn't understand the standard of reference. It's said that from the list of bans on the removal of organs, they removed the consent of the relatives. Of course, there's also notarial agreement here, but we understand that we're presupposing disagreements to the presumption of consent. I mean, if you didn't write in the electronic system that you didn't agree to, your organs from the system can be used. Of course, it's necessary, but if there are no relatives, I understand it so well, then the hospital has to decide if they haven't found it. I mean, of course, in a country, in civilized countries where the law enforcement system works and there's some kind of virtue, orderliness and control over law enforcement, it would be good for us to still prescribe such things in Ukraine. And here, of course, the second reading needs to be processed. Because the state's responsibility is being removed here and behind the state registers, we can assume that this could be uploaded to information about bases for people who do not have access to it, and there are some observations. But it's very good that, at last, the implementation of state health service guarantees, unfortunately, since the 23rd, will also be distributed for organ transplants and other anatomical materials. That's a huge benefit.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u257	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u258	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyevich Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u259	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich. Once again, I continued the meeting for 15 minutes, but before I considered the matter. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u260	Thank you, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich. In no way did he intend to make a point. I wanted to pay attention first of all, first of all, and most importantly, our faction has consistently opposed this issue. We will not support similar draft laws. Period. The other one. I want to go back to the draft Labour Migration Act, which I didn't really ask for a minute under the Rules, but I didn't get a reason. I want to say that by this vote you spat in the face of 65 million Ukrainians that Zelensky had summoned to Ukraine. We are all one home, and today all 65 million citizens of Ukraine, and not just Ukraine, but the Ukrainians who are all over the world, have received an answer today by this vote that they are not waiting for. That's the first one. The other one. The ruling majority are not exactly waiting for the Ukrainian citizens who are in uncontrollable areas of the individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk regions, Zelensky told them directly: Go to Russia, go wherever you want, to Ukraine you don't have to. I want to ask you, is this the kind of government approach we have? On the contrary, we have to create economic incentives for Ukrainian citizens to return to Ukraine, to travel from that unworthy work sometimes so that their family can survive and their family can be united here and live here. And the 147 votes that the opposition factions gave, not the majority party, show that President Zelensky is deceiving 65 million Ukrainians. Just as with the detainees, when Medvedchuk arranged for four women to be released from the territory of the individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, the President himself forbade this operation, and he is responsible for their presence in this area today. Once again, we have to support such bills, not do everything we can to get the Ukrainians to travel from Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u261	The word is given to the national deputy Pauluk Maxim Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill and to proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-09-21-m0.u263	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think you hear the offer. Is there a need, anyone else? I don't see anyone who wants to. That's why. You didn't hear me say twice that I continued, five minutes ago, a meeting to consider this issue. Therefore, I would like to vote on the proposal of the committee to adopt, on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications in preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts governing the transplantation of anatomic materials to man (project registration number 5831). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:02:15]] For 309 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I want to thank you all for your work. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Thank you. I'll see you later.
