ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear colleagues, we are starting, hopefully, this year's final session week, so please ask the national deputies to prepare for electronic registration. While you're preparing, I'm reminding you that when you start your registration, you need to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and keep these two buttons simultaneously until the end of your login. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[10:00:53]] There are 156 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague of the Ukrainian national deputy Ahtem Zeitullaiovich Chigoza. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Ahtem Zeitullayovich, strong health and work for the benefit of the Ukrainian people! Welcome! Ladies and gentlemen, today, December 14th, the Day of Respect for the Participants of the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. We bow low to disaster management and express our deep appreciation for your heroic, self - sacrificing, and high professionalism during the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident. And eternal memory and respect for those who have given their lives to overcome the consequences of this catastrophe. Let us pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of the dead liquidators and victims of the Chernobyl tragedy. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear national MPs, another piece of information. From December 14 to 19, 2021, in the towers of the third floor of the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian Institute of Books presents a book exhibition until the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's independence. The exhibition is being held as part of the national campaign National Reading Week. The purpose of the event is to unite the entire book community around reading and publishing. More than 30 leading publications of Ukraine will be presented in Parliament. The opening of the exhibition will take place today at 12 o’clock. So I invite the people's deputies of Ukraine and representatives of the media accredited to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to participate in this cultural and artistic educational effort. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to present statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups for proposals, announcements, and messages. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups. Sign up, dear fellows. The National Deputy of Ukraine Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, is invited to attend. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that for a long time the Supreme Council of Ukraine has had different groups of micro, small entrepreneurs standing both in the winter and in the summer and in the spring. And now here's rain, snow, they're under the Supreme Council and they're demanding one of the only "ministers of the people": "Don't destroy small entrepreneurs, don't destroy the middle class of Ukraine; don't drive self-employed people who have so hard to get a piece of bread, don't throw them into the shadows, and don't take their lives and their minimum wage." What's weird? Strangely enough, all these small entrepreneurs voted in favor of the party of power. The vote was because the ruling party program was directly written down, and you can verify that you guarantee that the tax system and tax conditions for small entrepreneurs (FOPs) will be unchanged. But only you entered parliament as a power, the first thing you did -- you deprived them of their right to life, you deprived them of those minimum systems of support of the state that had been formed for years, and these people fed their families and a few other people around them. Now, January 1st, thanks to the ruling party, thanks to the power, the decisions that have been made that come into force since January 1st, and thus you are inflicting a devastating, practically lethal blow on the middle class of Ukraine. And you know that when they came to this national house, which is called Parliament, what I'm saying is that this Parliament has, unfortunately, turned into a public house. So people don't even let go of the thresholds, they don't let go of the people they've chosen, they ask: "Accept, listen, give us a chance to make our position known." But there is no time in the heads of committees or in the heads of parliament or in the government for these people. I think they've already come to their conclusions about active power. But what we now demand is to immediately accept in Parliament the leaders of factions, the heads of committees, the leadership of the parliament of small business representatives, the FOPs, to hear their proposals immediately; to consider Bill 5866-1 and to immediately adopt before January 1st in a new, in-order session, and to stop destroying the people working for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u3	Dear speakers, I would like to remind you, according to the Rules and in general, of human ethics, I am not sure that comparisons with such institutions are appropriate for national deputies and should generally be heard in Parliament. Please keep your hands where I can see them. [[B in m in s a l in]] What procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine to Dmitry Davidovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u5	I ask you to pass the word to Olga Vasilevsky-Smagluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u6	Vasilevska Smagluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u7	Thank you. Vasilevska Smagluk, 96th constituency. Dear colleagues, today exactly five months after the President of Ukraine signed a law that was called anticollective in the people. But it's not really anti-collectory; it's about protecting the borrower, protecting him from barking and calling him at night, protecting him from the threat of telling the manager at work, protecting him from porno in the OSB chat room. For the first time in 30 years of independence, we created conditions for law between the borrower and the borrower. We gave the people a protector in the person of the regulator, the National Bank of Ukraine, and set limits on the debt. And the first measures of influence are already in place. During these five months, 16 fines have been applied for unethical behavior by collectors to the borrower, as well as two temporary waivers. The one-and-a-half million we have put into the budget is evidence that not all collectors are willing to work in the market in a civilized way. Of the 6,000 complaints, 4,000 200 apply to all three persons, three persons who were not in debt and who were not in charge. It's about them that collectors and unethical behaviors, they handle their personal data, they call them, their leaders, they have nothing to do with taking up the debt. So we have to continue to prohibit the processing of third-party personal data by creditors and collectors. Since the rule of anticollector law is firm, it says that third persons who were not in charge should not be disturbed. In addition, we need to prohibit the use of a car phone more than half an hour a day at a legislative level because the allowed half an hour turns into 180 calls a day and leads people to hysteria. Business has assured that the auto-dial will be used within the framework of current legislation and will be an effective measure of influence, but that is not the case, people are led to a fable, and that needs to be stopped. Please consider this statement, distinguished representatives of the collector's business, the last Chinese warning: either you are acting by law, or we will ban you at all, and you will not act at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u8	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Gerasim Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians, Peter Dustenk and I have only just returned from Donetsk, from Audiowka, where we have passed on to the 25th Heroic Brigade the fifth system of modern video surveillance and intelligence. And we are proud of the fighting spirit of the Ukrainian army, as well as of the Ukrainian Nascwardia, which carries heavy service on the blockades of Donetsk. You know, our army is ready to take a stand against the enemy, they have a high fighting spirit, but they also expect an adequate position from Ukrainian politicians and they want to ask. Why is there a hearing in the European Parliament today on security issues in Ukraine, and there are no similar hearings in the Ukrainian Parliament on security issues in Ukraine? Why the European Parliament has recognized "vagners" as a terrorist organization, and the Ukrainian Parliament does not put the bill "European Solidarity" to the vote to recognize "vagners" as a terrorist organization. Maybe because three years ago, Ukrainians fell in love, believed in new faces, and, unfortunately, chose new ones. (three dots), so to speak, a face. One of these faces recently, as a major achievement, was released from office after absolute rigor on the roadblocks with police officers passing the ATO/OOS. But there are other issues that remain in society. First. Yes, who appointed this Goghilashvili to be deputy minister of the interior? As the former interior minister says, which is also responsible for this assignment, he did so under pressure, according to former minister’s partners, under Zelensky’s pressure and direction. And we've got a lot of questions that we're going to demand to answer, including the MP's requests to Greensky, and we're going to see how this session room is going to vote on that. First. Who Appointed Him? The other one. Who will be responsible for the failure of the special inspection that he had to undergo (and these are the security services) regarding the admission to the state secret of yesterday's citizen, or perhaps today's aggressor country? Third. Is it true that Bank's today is a real mole, where the moles work, and you don't know their names anymore? Why is it that in banking today the country is run by secretaries who aren't even there to work and get paid at Quarter 95? You know, they're very fond of counselors, special media advisors to invite. Invite Masha, please, she's a "walking website," you know, let her tell you if she's been present at all the closed meetings, but somehow we think no one will ask her. And we're talking to Alexia Potter. Alexia, Goncharenko's driving, invite Masha, because Masha is driving the country today, she's running Green, she's running Ukraine, she's getting paid today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u10	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, a member of the "Trust" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u11	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! One of the main issues that concerns Ukrainians today is the energy security of the state. It's not just the heat in our homes that depends on the general functioning of the economy of the state as a whole, and there are a number of problems that remain unresolved so far. For more than a month now, as I've heard from this rostrum, a situation that is now bothering all hospitals where COVID patients are being treated. The personal safety of patients depends not only on the ability of doctors but also on the stable power supply and the provision of these facilities, where COVID sufferers, emergency generators are present. Upon request from our trust MP group, the profile ministries replied that the heads of such institutions should themselves be concerned about the stable. Energy stability and the security of its facilities. But this is a completely wrong approach to solving the problem. Doctors themselves know what to do without recommendations. They need, not recommendations, but additional funding for hospitals throughout the country. I would also like to highlight a number of social problems that have been addressed to members of our group by representatives of local self - government bodies, the heads of the united territorial communities, and social workers, such as the compensation of road transport for the benefits of citizens. So far, there is no government funding at all and no regulation of these benefits at the central level. Now, there's a draft decision that's being developed that's being proposed to pass all of this on to the OTG level, but it's primarily a state aid, and it's very resourceful, and I'm sure most OTG just can't do it, they can't do it. Crowds will never be able to work out a single, unified approach, that's what the state has to do. And the last. Today, we honor the participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES. But when the state officially honors the exploits of the liquidators and cancels the benefits previously granted to the Chernobyls, it incurs fair indignation in the same liberators. Moreover, since 2017, we have not had a single national programme to solve the entire problem of Chernobyl. That's why I'm turning from the Trust MP to the Cabinet of Ministers, demanding that we address the problems that have just been addressed, because our voters are constantly addressing these problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u12	Thank you, Oleg Ivanovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rudik Kiri Alexandrovni, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, last week I, along with other members of the Voice faction, returned from Rome, where the Congress of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats of Europe was held. We came there to defend the Resolution on stopping or delaying the North Stream 2 certification. This resolution was adopted through active work. And that's very good news. But we also communicated with our colleagues from various European countries. We talked to them about what is happening in Europe and what 2021 looks like for an average European. I'll count: first he made (or she) himself a second dose of vaccine, then he got help from the state, then he went back to work, or he resumed his business. He's heard about the gas price rise, but he's sure the state can handle it, so he doesn't really care. These are all the key events that are now taking place in the life of a European. What does 2021 look like for a Ukrainian? First of all, the January nocdownon, people spent the savings they had. Then came the vaccine, for God's sake, they were vaccinated. Then, the autumn nocdown, the kids didn't go to school, the prices for gas for the enterprise went up, and the main thing that happened was that people's purchasing power and business actually went down. Just think, in a year’s work, the authorities have not taken any steps to meet entrepreneurs. What motivation should people have to stay in Ukraine to stay and pay taxes here if they do not see any step by power? The Voice faction has offered numerous initiatives to support small and medium-sized businesses. First of all, this is the abolition of the EU during quarantine. Second, it's a cancellation of administrative checks. And I personally made budget changes by 2022 -- an additional 10 billion dollars to support small and medium-sized businesses. Unfortunately, there are other priorities in power. But I have only one priority in the Voice faction to make sure that Ukrainians can make money in their homeland, and the state, if it didn't help, didn't at least put a stick in the wheels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u14	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich, the MP's Party for the Future. Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u15	Thank you, Your Honor, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to raise an extremely important question that all Ukrainian industries are raising today is a question of crazy growth for the gas price industry, which is already running at almost 40 dollars per thousand. The price of electricity, which is now more than five dollars per kilowatt of electricity, is raised by a thousand dollars per thousand cubic feet. And this is a question that the government today would have in principle start to think about how to decide. Because how the Ukrainian industry works depends on what taxes we collect next year, which we have already foreseen in the budget that has been voted on. Today, for industry, these tariffs lead to the fact that, in fact, the company’s circulation costs are being consumed and that there is no possibility for enterprises to make investment programs to upgrade equipment, modernize and create more competitive production. I'm talking to the government about the need to adopt some kind of comprehensive program to support the Ukrainian industry. We have daily bills that today will allow us to protect the Ukrainian industry. It's also about localization, where state support and preferences go to state-owned Ukrainian businesses and private Ukrainian companies to importers who are deamping today and sometimes simply do everything they can to destroy the Ukrainian industry. These are also programs where special tender procedures are applied, if Ukrainian large industrial manufacturers, such as Turboat, Electric Tavern, Star, Mashproject, and so forth, are involved. These should be the programs that we should anticipate for the next year in the budget, which I've talked about over and over again, and hopefully they will be foreseen for the changes for the following year. For example, to allocate 5 to 7 billion dollars for a hundred projects of 50 to 70 million for the creation of new industrial objects, new jobs, which would give great impetus to and execution of the state execution, and create real economic premeditations for the restoration of Ukraine's regions. And so today we don't have any support programs, so Ukrainian industry, in fact, one-on-one remained with its problems, and we don't see any proposals from the government. So today, I'm going to the Prime Minister, and we're going to the whole government, and we're going to urgently develop this program of support for Ukrainian production, and we're going to make an immediate program to overcome these crazy tariffs for Ukrainian industry, and we're going to create conditions for it not to spend its circulation costs and essentially lose its perspective for the next 2-3 years. And the main thing is what the budget is going to be for next year. If we don’t join the industry today, there won’t be just taxes, not even wage money for teachers, hospitals.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u16	The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The whole world is tense today because of the situation on the Russian-Ukrainian border. There is already concern for our patriarchs, the Pope of Rome. Why the tension? Because there is no peace in Ukraine. Why is there no peace in Ukraine? Because the Minsk Accords are not being implemented. Why are the Minsk Treaties not being implemented? Because it's thought to be treason. Twice was betrayed in September 2014, when Poroshenko signed these protocols. On February 12, 2015, Poshenko signed a package of actions on behalf of Kuchma and Poshenko signed a protocol with Putin, Merkel and Holland. By the way, the only thing left is Putin, who's a signatory to the government. And I'm asking, why did they sign the treachery? And then who signed this, let me read: "The parties express interest in reaching agreements within the Normandy format of the Tripartite Contact Group on all legal aspects, especially the order of local self-government of the "special status" of the individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, as stated, in the implementation package of the Minsk Agreements since 2015, with the aim of ensuring its functioning on a permanent basis." They consider it necessary to incorporate Steinmayer's formula into Ukrainian legislation, according to a version agreed by H4 and the Tripartite Contact Group. Who signed this betrayal? Ba, Mr. Greensky, December 19th in Paris. Look, both Paris and Berlin and Washington are reading what two Ukrainian presidents signed, and they don't understand why it's not happening. Biden stood on this rostrum in 2015 and begged for the Minsk Accords, and spoke of a special status for Donbas. We have to show the end of the way for peace to be settled, how this peace will be realized, then, believe me, it will be better to go at the very beginning. There's no beginning, because no one knows what the end is. And then, believe me, we're not going to count the tanks on the borders, and we're going to count the coal echelons that will return from Donbas to our Ukrainian power stations, and we're going to watch people go back to Donetsk, and Donetsk is going to Kiev with joy and smiles, because they're going to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, time for speeches is up. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. I'm sorry, from the procedure, I'm sorry. Who's it gonna be? Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u19	Thank you, Mr. Head. The Supreme Council regulations prohibit the leadership of the Supreme Council from commenting on speeches by national deputies. In order to increase confidence in Parliament, it is necessary not to moralize the rostrum by breaking the Rules, but to adopt laws that ensure the normal functioning of citizens in the Ukrainian State and, at the very least, ensure that small businesses have normal tax conditions, normal conditions for the administration of their work. Rather than enact laws that stimulate society and give social evaluations that come from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. So once again, the Rules prohibit commenting on the speeches of the national MPs. And in accordance with article 29, part one, of the Rules of Procedure, I make a note to the presiding officer and ask him not to violate the Rules in the following. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, the list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making is given to you today. Let us go to their consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, last Friday, we have not been able to make all the decisions on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.11.2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts on the sustainability of budgetary revenues (number 5600) (since 02.06.2021). And all we had left was a vote, because we had a discussion on these projects. All we have to do now is make decisions by voting for those draft decrees that remain. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 03.11.2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on the amendment of the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts on the sustainability of budgetary revenues (registration No. 5600-P14) (authority of the People's Deputy of Synyutka). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:29:30.]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next, Decree 5600-P11 of 30.11.2021 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the draft Act on the amendment of the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain legislative acts on the sustainability of budgetary revenues. This draft decree is made by the Ukrainian national deputies Savrasova and Južanina. Dear colleagues, please identify yourself. Savrasov and Jujanina. Please identify and vote. 5600-P15, yeah. [[10:30:19]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next, Decree 5600-P16 of the People's Deputies of Alekseyev and Jujanina on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.11.2021 on the adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the draft Act on the Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine to ensure a balanced budget income." Once again, Decision 5600-P16. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[10:31:07]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Next, Decree 5600-P17 of the People's Deputies of Lopushanski and Južanina on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.11.2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on the Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the sustainability of budgetary revenues (5600-P17). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:31:53]] For-83 The decision is not taken. The next decision is Decree 5600-P18 of Vátarović and Južanina on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.11.2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to the Code of Taxation of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the sustainability of budgetary revenues. Once again, this is Regulation 5600-P18. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[10:32:42]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Next Order 5600-P19. This is a decree of 30.11.2021 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain legislative acts on ensuring a balanced budget income." Order 5600-P19. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:33:23]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Next order of the people's deputy, Jemiliev, number 5600-P20. This is a decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.11.2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the sustainability of budgetary revenues." Order number 5600-P20. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:34:10]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. The next order is made by the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Chigoza, the number of Decree 5600-P21. This is about repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30.11.2021 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the sustainability of budgetary revenues. Order 5600-P21. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:34:55]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Next order number 5600-P22. This is the decision of the People’s Deputies of Knieżický and Južanina. Decision of 30.11.2021 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on the amendment of the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain legislative acts on the sustainability of budgetary revenues. Order number 5600-P22. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please identify yourself and vote. [[10:35:49]] For-88 The decision is not taken. And the final decision in this block is the draft Decree No. 5600-P23, the decree of the People's Deputies of Vlasenka, the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine to ensure a balanced budget income." Once again, this is Regulation 5600-P23. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:36:45]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've voted all the decisions, they've been made. The law is unlocked, it can be signed. Let's move on. The next question is Bill 5630. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Citizenship Act on simplifying the acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship by foreigners and non-citizens who have participated in the protection of Ukraine's territorial integrity and integrity (second reading). I invite the head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations of Dmitri Valeriovich Lubinz to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, will anyone insist on their amendments? No one will insist. Dear colleagues, no one will insist on amendments. This is a very important piece of legislation, so I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Nationality Act on simplifying the acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship by foreigners and non-citizens who have participated in the protection of Ukraine's territorial integrity and integrity (project registration number 5630). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:38:46]] For 285 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Thank you, colleagues, it's a very important law. Let's move on, next question. From that point of view, we had an understanding between all the factions, we put it into the order of the day, but we have to vote. This is registration number 6375, this is the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets From Corruption and Other Crimes on the Elimination of Inaccuracies. Dear colleagues, first we must vote on the inclusion in the agenda of this issue. We need to get 226 votes. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[10:39:48]] For 292 Decision taken. The next vote we have to make in accordance with the procedure is to define Bill 6375 as an urgent bill and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills until the day of the plenary session on 14 December 2021. We also need 226 votes. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:40:28]] For 241 Decision taken. Next. We need to vote on the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. It also takes 226 votes. Dear colleagues, please support this decision. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. Dear colleagues, I propose to vote ad hoc on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session on the bill (registration number 6375). Please vote. [[10:41:17]] For 298 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we had a prior agreement that we would immediately vote on this issue as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, it's the ARMA. Who didn't get it, it's the Army. But for the sake of clarity of the procedure, let us vote on this issue in summary. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[10:42:02]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to invite the deputy chairman of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee of Janchenko Galin Igorovna to the rostrum to read the conclusion of the committee and then vote on the matter. Please, Galina Igorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, good morning! You and I have made, I would say, a titanic effort to change at least something in an anti-corruption body like the ARMA, the Agency for the Search and Management of Assets. In July we voted by constitutional majority with you on the Reform Law of this body, and there finally began some changes. I am very grateful for your civil position, for your political position in July after the ARMA reform. But now we have another little challenge: we need to make the changes that we made in July and adopt two additional standards critical. Actually, these are the following. The first rule is that we establish ownership. We're actually allowing, we're bringing into line the ARMA Profile Act with the changes that are now being considered in the Criminal Procedure Code Act. And specifically, we're going to allow asset owners to charge not only the asset's arrest and not just the way it's managed, but the fact that it's transferred to the ARMA. The second short rule is that now, taking into account some of the changes in staff, it's pretty important to be flexible. Friends, this is necessary for the ARMA, which has finally begun to function normally, to be able to continue at the same pace. At last, in the fall, ARMA started selling assets at market price, which was for the first time in six years, the first time since the creation of this organ, thanks to our efforts with you. From the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u22	Galina Igorovna, you're welcome. Look, we agreed not to discuss it, so I invited you, if you would listen carefully, to announce the position of the committee. Give me two more minutes, please. But please listen to what I'm asking for next time. The position of the committee, because we need to vote on the committee's proposals. Please, Galina Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u23	I would like to point out from the committee that the committee unanimously supported the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council consider it as a basis and as a whole with technical and legal processing, and specifically, by deleting section I, paragraph 2, and by supplementing the text of the bill with chapter II, "The Final Position" in such an edition. First. This law takes effect from the day of its publication. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on a monthly basis from the date of entry into force of this law to bring its legal acts into line with this law. Ensure the adoption of the legislation necessary for the implementation of this law. My colleagues, thank you. Support, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u24	Thank you, Galina Igorovna. Please take your place. Dear colleagues, we agreed with the faction leaders that this bill is being passed immediately in the first and in general, everyone is saying, without discussion. So, dear colleagues, I'm going to make the proposal first to accept as a basis, then as a whole. I propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes on the Elimination of Inaccuracies (project registration number 6375). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:46:26]] For 315 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, just one more decision, don't split up. I propose to adopt, as a whole, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes (project 6375) which takes into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal amendments. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:47:13]] For 318 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! Let's move on. The next bill is a second reading, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property on clarifying certain provisions and promoting investment in the privatization process ( bills 5397) (second reading). I invite the head of the Economic Development Committee subcommittee, Alexy Vasilovich Movcan, to attend the rostrum. Dear colleagues, would anyone insist on repairs? It will, won't it? Please, for a second now, there's, I don't think, four amendments are counted or six. Yeah, there's seven amendments and four aren't included. I see the 5th Amendment, Princess, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u25	Thank you. We made an amendment that was rejected because we were opposed to removing from the list of objects that were not subject to privatization, manufacturing, repairing technical and other means of rehabilitation for people with disabilities. Please support this amendment, because, in Lviv, I have in the district one of the largest factories that manufactures devices for people with disabilities, such as the Lviv prosthetic plant, which is constantly bankrupt for privatization, which can do quality technology. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u26	Committee position, please, Alexy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u27	Yes, in fact, this amendment does not meet the purpose of the bill, because the explanatory note clearly states that there is a justification for excluding such a category of enterprises from the rules on the prohibition of privatization. The first is because 85 percent of the market in such a product category belongs to the private sector. And the second is that they just generate damage all the time. So there are separate areas that we have to protect by law. But obviously this one is no longer necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u28	You insist on putting this amendment to the vote, right? Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the 5th amendment of the People's Deputy of the Prince. The committee turned her down. So please identify and vote. [[10:49:53]] For 105 The decision is not taken. All right, we've considered all the amendments. I thank my colleagues. Therefore, I ask the national deputies to take their seats. I propose that the committee adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property to clarify certain provisions and facilitate investment in privatization (project registration number 5397). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:50:48]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Yes, dear fellows, well, then let's do it. Show me the factions, please. Again the second, respected colleagues. Dear colleagues, I propose that this bill be sent back to read again. This is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property to clarify certain provisions and facilitate investment in privatization (project registration number 5397) Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Hold on, hold on. Another second. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:52:00]] For 255 Decision taken. The bill went on to read again. Thank you, colleagues. Next bill. Next bill, 4220. Wait a second. This is a draft law amending certain legislative acts to address specific issues of bankruptcy procedures for the period of action aimed at preventing the occurrence and spread of COPID-19 (the 4220 bill) is a second reading. There are two amendments that are out of the question. Will anyone insist on repairs? Dear colleagues, no one insists. Then, dear fellows, I put the bill to the vote. Proposal for a committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft Act amending certain legislative acts dealing with individual issues of bankruptcy for a period of action aimed at preventing the occurrence and spread of COPID-19 (project registration number 4220). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:53:32]] For 289 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, fellows! Yes, the next bill (first reading), Bill 5865 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of Capital Markets and Organized Commodity Markets, and some other Ukrainian legislation on regulation and supervision of capital markets and organized commodity markets. Bill 5865. Dear colleagues, I propose that we address this issue in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:54:34]] For 230 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danil Alejandro Gettmanchev. That's what I understand, both from the authors, and from the committee, right, Danilo Alexanderovich? Four minutes. Please, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u29	Financial pyramid. A financial pyramid is a word, a term we know from the past. We know when millions and millions of our fellow citizens lied in the 1990s who trusted their money and never saw it again. And it seems to us that today this expression has gone into the past. Yet, no. Today, more than a hundred financial pyramids are operating in Ukraine. Avalontech, Qubittech, 24open, B2B Jewelry. B2B Jewelry has deceived 600,000 of our fellow citizens to a total of $250 million. Today, it is estimated that between 500,000 and 1.5 million of our citizens have suffered from financial pyramids. And that's today, that's not in the '90s. The law you have proposed is complex. The proposed law introduces mechanisms aimed at countering financial pyramids in the first place, introduces the definition of financial pyramids, and empowers the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets to conduct research into the creation of financial pyramids. In addition, the bill contains other very important positions that are aimed at creating a civilized stock market, a civilized stock market like those that exist in the developed states of the world: a civilized stock market in which we can invest our money; a civilized stock market that is essential for the second level of the pension system. This bill enhances the institutional capacity of the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets. It can certainly be discussed for second reading, it certainly contains discretionary norms, discretionary powers of the National Commission, but this is a requirement of today, it is the implementation of those standards that exist in civilized countries of the world. I want to thank the co-workers of the National Securities Commission, the committee secretariat and the committee's national deputies who have joined in working on this complex bill, we have worked on it for a year, as well as the representatives of the World Bank who have given expert opinions on this bill. This will certainly be a new important, big step in the way of establishing a stock market in our country, on the way to introducing a second level pension system in our state. Please support the green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u30	Thank you, Daniel Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Gevko Volodymyr Leonidovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Olga Vassilevsky-Smagluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u32	Please, Mrs. Olga, welcome to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u33	Vasilevska Smagluk, 96th constituency. Dear friends, I'm starting my every reception of citizens in the district with complaints of fraudulent investors. Deceptive people who had suffered from reading the advertisement and believing empty promises that had been deceived by the last of their money being warmed by their hands. This bill allows us to determine legally what a financial pyramid is. It allows the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets to post an inexhaustible list of criteria on its website, which is a financial pyramid. It also provides the functions of the National Commission to stop the abuse of people, to stop the unauthorized false, lying advertising that misleads our people, our voters, our citizens. And I urge you to support this two-pronged bill that our committee has been working on during this year, which will allow our people to protect themselves from giving their last money to criminals, who will then not go to our people who will then go into the pockets of those who really need to be planted. Let's stop the financial pyramids in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u34	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanishini Olga Anatoliyevna, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u35	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Jurczyn, the association of “Justice. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u36	Please, Jaroslav Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u37	Jaroslav Jurchisin, “Justice. ” I'd like to draw a conclusion as the first deputy head of the Anti-Corruption Committee. The Anti-Corruption Committee, recognizing that we actually need to normalize financial markets, but it's unacceptable to cover up the interests of fraudulent investors and create corrupt mechanisms. What do I mean? The first is the very clear discretion of the commission in determining the level of the fine, i.e. there is no difference between the minimum and the maximum, no clear indicators as to how they are applied. And the commission can punish some by the maximum, while others can actually apply minimum sanctions. It's unacceptable, it's discretion. Next. There is no distinction between commission mandates and authorized persons. So again, we can have a situation where in the same case there will be two mutually disputable decisions, and this case will be resolved in our still unreformed courts and the still insolvent Kyiv District Administrative Court, because this commission is the central body of executive power. And traditionally, in principle, you can read out the observations of both the Chief Executive, and the Anti-Corruption Committee, and the NAMC, and clearly see that there are a lot of powers. But the tradition is that we again authorize the President by giving him additional powers that are not in the Constitution. In fact, it is established by the President in contravention of article 106 of the Constitution to violate disciplinary orders regarding the head of the commission. Why create a law that will be abolished by the Constitutional Court? Friends, write the laws properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u38	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Nina Petrovni, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". It's a Southern. Oh, you're here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, it is not acceptable at all to talk about fundamental things, to speak with slogans, and to cover up all our incursions with some kind of beautiful words. Because in fact, under the optimistic purpose of this draft law on improving investor protection, consumer financial services, addressing the issues of prevention of the creation of financial pyramids, capital market manipulation, the result is another state monster – an overseer in the National Securities and Stock Markets Commission as a national regulator of capital markets and organized commodity markets. Let me give you just a few examples. I ask you to read the conclusion of Minfina, Mineconomy, Minyustu, GNEU. You will see how much they talk about unwarranted granting authority to a commission to make decisions about the ownership of civil rights objects to financial instruments and securities, and in general the functions of a commission that are again frameworkable. In short, you want to vote for a cat in a bag again. It's already a tradition in this room: to accept what's unknown is not completely exposed, and then to try to work out. And here's a great example. Not long ago, we had adopted changes to legislation that involved insurance for farmers from all the unforeseeable crop events. So that's the state support that should be useful. And the national regulator of the National Bank of Ukraine now imposes such additional requirements on farmers that this norm cannot work. So you're going to have to stop writing the framework laws. You need to talk essentially, specifically. The authorizations must be written, the criteria, more, very clearly indicated. We will not vote in favour of this draft law in the first reading. Hopefully, by the second reading, it will be more quality and, as usual, it will be converted into all 90 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u40	The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Jury Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u41	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I ask you to pass the word to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u42	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u43	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. You know, it's a law from a series of "what, something to do, what to do." Please tell me, we've all been applauding together recently, ovating, creating the Bureau of Economic Investigation. Hooray, comrades! What are we doing now? We're handing over the functions of law enforcement agencies to the hell knows who and why. So please stop doing adventures. Soon we'll have more test subjects than we have employees. It's not normal. If you think people are thanking you for this law, so business and financial structures will curse you, that you're creating another controller instead of supporting them. Come on, you're people's servants, not racketeers' servants, so please be sure to be responsible. I want to thank the Head as Minister for Emergency Situations and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl tragedy for honoring our liquidators today for a moment of silence. We remember and honor the dead. But let us also remember the living. Why is it still almost three times less in real money than it was in the 13-14s when the Chernobyl budget and our liquidators were raised by 30 percent next year? So please, less control, less racketeering. Let us honor those who work. We honor those who gave their lives and health for us. And then, believe me, you will feel like servants of the people themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, would anyone like to speak? Yes, please. (Glasses have me there) Who's there? Bondarev, please. And after that, Shahov, right, am I right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Bondarev, please. Constantine Bondarev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u45	Thank you. Bondarev, National Deputy, Fatherland. Dear friends, I would like to address the national MPs as well as the people of Ukraine. Under the beautiful slogan of the fight against financial pyramids, a new corrupt feeder is being created for the designated ones and will be identified in Bakuya, because this law provides for the task of directing this commission at the hands of the President. What is it? The uninhabited functions of the power structures are passed on to this commission. This commission will register market participants that contradicts existing legislation. This commission will determine who of the shareholders voted correctly, who did not vote and stop voting accordingly. In fact, shareholder functions are passed on. This law cannot be voted on is corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, I still understand that, Shahov, right? Please, Shahov, and after that, dear colleagues, let us proceed to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u47	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Respectful colleagues are certainly to be protected today by people who have been deceived by frauds throughout the country. Of course, today we must intervene for the people. But I'd like to ask the authorities. Two and a half years you run the state. Why do you ignore Singapore, which has entered the world’s top five financial states, without taking examples from those nations that are now developing in financial institutions? Please tell me, why is Ukraine so rich today, fourth in wealth, unable to use the market for securities? Why are these institutions not working today? Can anyone answer that? Only. We're setting up fuses. Why Is It Not Developing? Why don't you give tools to the people of Ukraine today? Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this extremely important bill. People's deputies please take their seats. And I'm proposing to the committee to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Regulation of Capital Markets and Organized Commodity Markets and some other Ukrainian legislation on regulation and supervision of capital markets and organized commodity markets (project registration number 5865). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:11:27]] For 247 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, we still have a day-to-day draft of the Order for Change in the Order of the Sixth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (5893-15). You have a draft decision. Is there a need to discuss? Please, by the reduced procedure: two in, two in, two in, against, please sign in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Shinkarenko Ivan Anatoliyovich, political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u49	Please support this bill and proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u50	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u51	Thank you. Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u52	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, when you were in your high office, you promised to uphold the rules of the Rules in a public manner and to form a daily order according to the number of members of the factions. And what I'm saying is that you've been in your high office for a month now, you're violating this standard every week because there's no bill. Dear colleague of the "ministers of the people," we now appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council, and the opposition may be honored here. There was never such a thing in the hall that deputies speak, and everyone walks, communicates. So I'm asking you to add 15 seconds of my time, and I would like to point out that you are in grave violation of the Rules: you have never put forward a bill of the largest opposition faction of "European Solidarity", in favour of which millions of Ukrainians voted and who have delegated us here to present their interests, no draft of ours. Among these bills, 6006, which increases the cost of subsidies that help doctors in Ukraine. You're not putting our rulings in order, so imagine, the regulatory committee is just blocking them, creating an immediate interim commission of inquiry for Wagner. The creation of a temporary investigation commission to investigate the theft of COVID is just blood theft. Similarly, you do not order the daily bill on the recognition of Wagnerians by a terrorist organization. And the last week of this year, just like the first and all other weeks of this year's session, is only on the basis of lobbyist drafts of "ministers of the people," as well as the factions that are voting on you. And we demand that you abide by the Rules and that laws, including opposition, stand in order of the day. And that never once did any of our proposals come into the order of the day. You know, it's the parliament of all of Ukraine, not just the ruling party, we.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u54	Since there was an appeal to me, in no way am I simply exercising my right to a replica. Irina Volodymyrna, if you're interested, I have the right to a replica, and you've turned around and gone. That's probably the essence of Parliament to ask and listen to the answer, if you're interested. That's why I'm reporting to you. The first is about references to the Rules. You may know, as an experienced member of the long-term service, that the agenda is formed on the basis of the decisions of the Conciliation Council and the Chief of the Supreme Council has no effect on the formation of the agenda. The second is about which bills have entered and which they have not. So I'm showing you a table that's being prepared for me every week. This week from the "European Solidarity" faction, authored by your six drafts. So please let us not manipulate, but work for the benefit of Ukraine. Let's move on, let's go. It was a replica -- it's not a comment. The word is given to Mother Gregory Mikolaiovich by the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Coltunovich Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u56	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life" will not support this draft decree, I stress, of previous speakers. Because we have only one alternative in the 17 draft laws, which is no big deal. Why do we disagree with this approach? Because it does not follow the proportional principle of distribution and the corresponding number of draft laws on the number of national deputies. This time. One second. The priority given, the thematic priority, does not match the challenges of the times that exist today. We don't see where the bills that relate to the settlement of the Donbas conflict are once. Whoever does not speak, international agreements, declarations and so on, Ukraine also has the Supreme Council to implement the Minsk Accords, which are supported and approved by the UN Security Council resolution. Where's the decision on the Donbass election? Where is the question concerning the release of detained persons, the lifting of the economic blockade of Donbas? This is question number one in the country, it's gone, so we're not going to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u58	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine's national deputy, Bondarevo Kostin Anatoliyovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Vadim Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u60	Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko, please. And then there's Speedhog and Shahov, and we're going to vote. Now, Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u61	Yvchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! You know, the Fatherland faction is asking you to include 56 bills in the agenda. What are the bills: a bill on additional benefits to increase the pay of work for medical and pharmaceutical workers, a bill on dealing with specific health-care policies, a bill on the prestige of mining and the increase in the salaries of pension workers, a bill on mandatory state social insurance in case of unemployment, to increase unemployment assistance for anti-terrorists, war veterans. Colleagues, just one Bill of the 56th, signed by the "Fatherland" faction, incorporated into this agenda. And then they walk around the hall, and they include these opposing factions in the next session. So I have a question for the chairman and the committees. Why do the committees not put such important bills into the order of the day session, colleagues? Are these people not worth your attention today: miners, health care, veterans of an anti-terror operation? "Paternality" will not vote in favour of such an order of the day that does not meet the requirements that people are facing us today. Those FOPs that stand before us, they've been demanding for a year their Bill 5866-1, which basically cancels the RRO or terminates for all, not exclusively for certain, but for all categories of natural persons that are entrepreneurs. Let's finally think about people and form an order of the day in view of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u62	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Krachod Annie Constantineni, the "For the Future" MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, now under the Supreme Council, there are thousands of small entrepreneurs who will be forced to go to the employment centers as of January 1, 2022, because they will not be able to function properly, work properly, and pay taxes in the first place. You and I have passed so many tax laws this year, but we haven't thought about helping small and medium-sized businesses, we're just suffocating them. I propose and urge each of you to come to me now and sign the signed letters for the next sitting to consider Bill 6376 and to postpone the RRO for 1 year. And in this period, a normal bill will be developed that will allow for small and medium-sized businesses to exist and develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u64	The word is given to the national deputy Shah's Sergey Volodymyrovich. Then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u65	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I am calling on every parliamentarian today to fulfil his obligations and pay the miners their wages. Secondly, to draft the 2070 law on the free economic zones of Donbas. For two years he has been lying and drinking, not even on the committees. Bill 6064, which prohibits the exclusion of debt today, of people who have not been able to pay for the HKG. People of all east and west also urge every parliamentarian to intervene in the gas supply situation -- to ban the Kabmena today, the NCREKP to twist people's hands and reduce this rate of gas delivery to people today. That's even more than that gas costs. We're also asking you to put the bill to a vote of 6398, which will allow you to switch off.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Order on Change in the Order of the Day Sixth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call (project registration number 5893-15). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:22:59]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. Show the factions, please. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, the following Bill 5376 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on Promoting Digital Economy Development in Ukraine (second reading) I'd like to invite you to the rostrum of the Kowalczuk People's Chamber. Dear colleagues, I've already been handed over some of the amendments that will apply to confirmation, but they'll be done by then, we agreed. Will there be those who will make adjustments? I've already been handed over. Will you put it separately? It's separate, okay. Okay, that's what we'll end up putting on. Dear colleagues who will insist on it. So let's do it one at a time. Okay. Jujanina, amendment number two. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, this bill proposes to introduce some tax analogy to the capital outlay only for individual IT entities, when, as you recall, our team developed projects in its own time and offered to introduce a tax on the capital outlay in exchange for income tax without exception. That's what I'm going to do. So if the state says they can apply the tax on the capital output for the IT sphere, there's obviously resources and the ability to replace the temporary reduction in income from the classical income tax. So I'm asking you to support this amendment, and it will apply to all taxpayers and to extend the tax to them on the resulting capital.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, Amendment No. 2 of the People’s Deputies of Jujanina. She's been rejected by the committee. The author insists that it be taken into account, and the committee does not change its position. That's why I'm putting amendment number two of the national deputy of the South. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:23]] For 111 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Amendment number 5. Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, more than two and a half years ago, on the eve of the first round of presidential elections, on March 27, the premiere of the "Serve of the People 3" series took place. And the point is, not that dirty pre-election technology was used, but the point is that that's where the tax on the capital out there was. And unfortunately, the actions of President Golobordek in a series played by Zelenski's actor do not match the actions of the President. Because he was the one who said in the series that the tax on the resulting capital would be introduced. Please vote in favour of this amendment and comply with the President's promise to impose a tax on the capital. Please be very supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u70	I'm betting on a vote of 5th Amendment to the People's Deputies of the South. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:33]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Zablock doesn't insist. Next, Zalocksky doesn't insist. Steph does not insist. There's no insistence on the cold. Frolov doesn't insist. South Carolina, 21st Amendment. Nina Petrovna, you'll all bet yours, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u71	I'll all make amends. I want us not to be funny, because. And I'm going to finish, and I'm going to say another direct language to the President. Because at school, the teacher told the children from a distant future why they lived so well in Ukraine. And you know why? The teacher said, "Because in President Holobeard's time, a tax on the capital was introduced." So that's what polytechnology was all about. But now let's be serious. I'm talking to all my colleagues again. If it is possible to impose taxes on the capital output, it must be introduced for all, clearly. We've been back with you 10 times. And if you think that for the IT sphere it's very carefully written, you've taken into account all the nuances of abuse that might be, so let's apply to all taxpayers, and in fact then the words of the Bluebeard are justified.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u72	21 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:28:11]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. Next thing I know, 27th, Nina Petrovna, right? 27th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u73	Yes, this block again refers to changing terms, because if we're talking about a tax on the capital output, which, according to the project, is only going to apply to the residents of the City, I'm asking you to substitute the word "taxpayer" around. I don't understand where you got the idea that the residents of the City of Action who meet certain requirements and criteria, in accordance with Article 5 of the Basic Law on Promoting Digital Transformation and so forth, you're taking this opportunity. You see that's where these residents, these big companies get into this register? And when you talk about how they can apply the tax on the capital output and you kind of write it out cautiously, right now there's an opportunity to accept the tax on the capital output for all taxpayers. I want to hear the answer why you don't agree to implement it for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u74	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleague, you must know very well that this is not about large companies, but about our Ukrainians working in the IT sector today. Today, this small area, where only 250,000 people work, generates 4 percent of the country's GDP, and as a result of this balanced bill of 6 billion revenue from this sector is going to be about 16 billion dollars. So when we talk about "let's give it all," let's start with those who are willing to transform, change and fill our country's budget. And Law 1667 meets those criteria that apply not only to the IT spheres, but also to all taxpayers of taxes that you seem to care about. Thank you. The edit was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, the 27th Amendment of the National MP of Jujanina. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:38]] For 115 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Gorenjuk. Don't insist. It's cold. Don't insist. Chess. 38 revisions, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u77	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, this is the definition of "reversible financial assistance". For the sake of clear legislation, I ask you not to create anything new, because it only confuses people and does nothing good. So please stop at that definition and support the revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, the 38th Amendment of National MP Shahov. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[11:31:39]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Come on, Cold. Don't insist. Gorenouk. Don't insist. He's a pain in Don't insist. So, Gorenouk, Stepa, Cold, Stepa, Gorenouk. Rudik insists? 63rd, please, 63rd. Who's it gonna be? It's the railroad, isn't it? Please, Ironman, 63 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u79	Mr. Head, there is a constructive proposal. I've got about eight rights there. Can I take two minutes and not insist on any of them?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u80	Very wise offer, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u81	Our hall was always different in wisdom. Dear colleagues, let's be clear about what this bill is about. This is about special tax conditions in a separate virtual or real world called Action City. We had many discussions, including in this Hall, about the implementation of Acts City. There's been a huge number of references from IT associations, from business associations that were definitely "against," which are "against," but now it's a reality that the Act of Action of the City has been passed. And if we look at the observations and the references that are being made to everyone, I'm sure, the factions, you see that, if Acts City is already in place, they're asking us to introduce separate tax laws. Here I agree with many of my colleagues who represent opposition, which could be done better, faster, more radically. But exactly what we have to do is give our emigrants some benefits. I think in this case this bill can be voted on. And as a result of those phone calls that were made to the Voice faction, I think we should take the position here of business associations that bring us both glory as Ukraine, and the money in the budget at the expense of their taxes. And now I want to say something very important. If you think about why in the IT sector, the export of services, is so powerful in Ukraine, there's a simple answer -- because no one touched them because they worked by one rule, they liked it, they didn't like the simplified form, and they worked on it. And now that all of us politicians want to improve something for the IT sector, there's one thing we need to do -- not make the status quo worse. And that's why I'm calling on all my colleagues in the future not to make any proposals to raise their taxes. And this law we will uphold. Thank you to the committee for taking most of the voting rights into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u82	Thank you. I take it you don't insist on voting? Thank you. Another wise position. Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Let's move on. The following changes are made, let's see who. 68th, Eugene. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u83	In fact, I would like to hear the truth even if the people of Ukraine and especially the national MPs who are about to vote understand the content of the draft law. Because if we're talking about supporting the IT industry, it's not doing it the way you wrote it, because it's doing it. I'd like to address all factions. In adopting the draft Law 4303, the article “See the activities that are being stimulated by the creation of the legal regime of Action City” is not just support for the Aythics, but also the creation of all the software product for the gaming business, which I strongly insisted that we go back to this topic and exclude the creation of IT just for the companies that work in the gaming market, and which create such departments or individual legal persons who will become exactly the payers that they are going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u84	68 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina She's been rejected by the committee. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. Whoa, whoa, whoa. 65th? I announced 68th. Okay, let's vote 65 first. 65th National Deputy of South Carolina. Amendment 65. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:17]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. Please, 68th, Eugene. I'm sorry, I must have skipped an amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u85	So you think normally, the owner of a game business that is structured by its business so that there will be separate legal persons who will have the status of persons who, by their activities, fall under the Act of the City, will be given a large number of preferences that we will continue to talk about, and now we're talking about the tax on capital output, and for others, no? The economy is going into a cool peak. Do you understand that or not? Right now, we have to talk seriously about the fact that the tax on the capital outlay needs to be introduced for all spheres of the economy, not just for the IT sphere, although I don't mind it. But I'm against gambling being used by gamblers, gambling operators using this scheme. Because if you look beyond what will apply to other taxes, you will see. This isn't about the IT sphere, it's not about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the committee's response. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u87	Dear colleague, I don't understand, and more specifically, I understand. It's just that Ukrainians and our colleagues who aren't on the committee, hearing what you're saying, don't understand the point. And the point is that the bill is designed to stimulate the residents of the City, the people who have obtained residence under the established Law, you know, 1667. And that doesn't mean that everyone can totally use these benefits. It's about the gaming business. Let's do it once and appeal to all of your rights. The gaming business won't be able to enter the City City in the form of IT companies. To become a resident, you have to meet a set of requirements, and the gaming business is not exactly in the defined list that you're talking about that they can use. So that's not true. And don't confuse the Ukrainians and our colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, 68 amendments have been rejected by the committee. You've heard the argument of the parties. So please identify and vote. [[11:38:53]] For 114 The decision is not taken. 71st. Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u89	And so to those who don't know how to read. Among the types of activities that are entitled to be carried out are entities that will be subordinated to the Action City regime: planning and designing integrated computer systems that combine hardware, software, and communication technologies for all software; the issue of computer games; and the issue of other software that includes. And so on. We wanted to rule out all aspects of gaming business and software, to rule out the basic law. It didn't work out. So if the committee were to do the right thing, it would have to be done in every rule of exclusion that didn't apply to gaming programs. But both the reporter and others pretended they didn't see it. Although the Aythites gave this a lot of attention, it turns out to be the main wage now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u90	Committee position, will you?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u91	The reporter doesn't see what you're talking about, just because it wasn't, it doesn't have, and it won't be in the body of the bill, and it won't be in the law, and it won't be in the law that you're inventing again in order to manipulate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u92	71 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina It's rejected by the committee. You've heard the argument of the parties. So, your honors, I ask you to identify yourself and vote. [[11:40:44]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. 75th, Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, in detail and essentially you don't have to talk because you don't want to read and see what's written, but I'm going to focus on the next. "After a detailed technical study, we will not take any steps to replace the current tax on the income of enterprises with a distributed income tax or a tax on the resulting capital." This is a quote from a memorandum from the IMF published on November 25, signed by President Zelenski, Prime Minister Schmigal, Marchenko, Head of Nutzbank Shevchenko. So over the last seven years, we've been working with the fund, and there's been no discussion that we're going to give up the tax on the capital. This authority has already categorically stated and signed a document where they have renounced the idea. So I have a question, will the President sign this law now if he is accepted? After all, they told the IMF that they did not.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u94	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u95	It's hard to comment again if there's no question in fact. You and I have had enough time, meetings, discussions on the committee with the sphere and with representatives of the IT industry to find out all the finesse you call the "legislature." I'm just going to tell respectable colleagues in the hall and Ukrainians that this right here is already the ennai of the same thing as where you're trying to say that these conditions have to be distributed to all market participants, and we're talking to you, reminding you, we're talking only about the City Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I'm voting 75 amendments to the National MP of the South, she's been rejected on the committee. You've heard the argument of the parties. Please identify and vote. [[11:43:01]] For 116 The decision is not taken. 76 revisions. Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u97	So you heard it first thing. At first you've heard that this bill of Law 76, as it was said, refers not only to the subjects of Acts City, but to all the taxpayers I care about, not you. But now we're talking about the fact that only Acts City refers to the norm. So, please tell me, how can the President sign this bill if he doesn't meet the firm, convincing obligations that were noted in the IMF letter? So in fact, all of my eight previous amendments were about getting the tax on the capital out, if the government and the President wanted to break the relationship with the IMF, for example, if they were to issue such a document now, it still applied to all taxpayers. So that all taxpayers can win from it, not just individual ones, and including a gambling business that just goes through the red tape. I insist and read it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the 76th Amendment of the National MP of Jujanina. It is rejected by the committee, so please identify and vote. [[11:44:32]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Next 78th. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u99	This amendment and this block actually apply to some of the technical requirements for the transition from the payment of a classic tax to a tax on the capital outlay to all taxpayers. But then I wanted to bring another quote to you. "Sufficiently endless discussions on this subject, time to put a dot on this issue, and I'm ready to do it." It was President Zelensky who said about the tax on the capital. If President Greensky is willing to do this, why isn't he ready to do the "Serial of the People" faction in Parliament? Why don't they stand by these amendments now to carry out the words, the direct language of the President who gave both during the election campaign, and two and a half years at all business meetings? That's his words I'm quoting. What might be another thought or other, perhaps an understanding? Do you say one thing and think another?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u100	Committee position, if necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u101	It's a pleasure, my dear colleague, to have you so anxious to keep our President's promises. And I'm going to give you the answer that it was the President's initiative, and it remains an initiative. We are the faction of the President, most of the time, we support this bill, and it will be voted and signed. Thank you so much for taking such care of our President.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I'm putting 78 amendments to the National MP of South Carolina. She's been rejected by the committee. You've heard the position of the party. Please identify and vote. [[11:46:28]] For 114 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 82. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u103	I think you're seeing this brutal behavior of the reporter and you're going to react adequately to it, so I'm going to continue. Nevertheless, this block relates to the period when all taxpayers apply the tax on the capital. It's very cynical now to see all the explanations and letters that have been signed for the IMF, especially when it happens against the backdrop of the 5,600 decisions that have been adopted and not supported today. You cannot fail to respond to the comments of the business across Ukraine. You can laugh for at least two more years, and then you'll cry and that's definitely, but the main thing is that business will start crying as of January 1st of this year. So in order to prevent a disaster in the country, I ask you to still distribute the tax on the output.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u104	Amendment 82 of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:48:01]] For 113 The decision is not taken. 86 revisions. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u105	So you're saying that you've already said the final "good-bye" to the tax on the resulting capital for everyone. But I remember even the first meetings, the Presidential campaign, when the President's advisors were there in front of the business, you were definitely talking about what's totally acceptable to you and conceptually you're just going to see what you can bring in. I've already registered several draft laws in this office in order to adapt, taking into account the changes in the Tax Code, to the introduction of tax on the capital output for all. So it's very interesting what now prevents you from making that decision, the standard you promised both during the presidential campaign and for two and a half years? Do you have one person in charge of all tax policies? Do you not have your own thoughts?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u106	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u107	You know, my dear colleague, I've never heard a personal expression like "brutal reporter." I want to ask you, what is my brutality? And maybe I'll go to the regulatory committee, because you've already disgusted your expressions, your factions in relation to all your colleagues in this room. Start to filter a little bit what you're saying, and it won't come out of your hands anymore, I guarantee you that, and I promise you that. As for your question, we're going back to a paper that's really called "nothing," because you're talking about all kinds of business. I remind you, this bill on the residents of Diya City. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the 86th amendment of the national MP of Jujanina. The committee rejected it, you heard the argument. So please identify and vote. [[11:50:22]] For 113 The decision is not taken. 87th. Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u109	I read for those who don't understand. Brutality is a type of behavior that creates an atmosphere of hostility and disrespect. Brutality is a source of conflict and causes other situations. Here you are, just a demonstration of this brutality. And now, essentially. If you were interested, we are now talking about the amendments that apply to the resident tax facility of Acts City. What are these operations? And how do we react to the fact that the tax on the capital output is being introduced in a semi-partial way that is now being proposed here. You know, in 2015-2016, we did such a little computational work on the basis of a study of the experience of transformation of the classic model of income taxation on the example of Estonia, where there is a tax on capital output for over 20 years, and it has just the highest investment rate. And that's what it
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u110	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u111	It's about brutality. If I have to stand in this rostrum, suffer, I know that I have many colleagues here to support me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. And I'm willing to do this over the next 10, 20, 30 and 40 minutes, because I know exactly that this bill will bring about changes in the big area of our future, where 250,000 now work, and it's going to work 500 000, and now it's going to be 6 billion dollars, and it's going to be 16, where now there's 4 percent of GDP, and it's going to be 10. So go on, Nina Petrovna, go on!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, before making an 87 amendment, I would like to address everyone in this room and remind them of the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules concerning one, that both the reporter and the respondent should speak solely according to the correction that is, and not give us a tour of either philanthropy or other matters related to the meaning of semantic words. So I just encourage everyone to go back to constructively, if possible, respected colleagues. I'm putting to the vote 87 amendments to the National Deputy of South Carolina. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:53:18]] For-119 The decision is not taken. 88th, Nina Petrovna, please. 88 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u113	Hence, the work done to study the impact of the tax on the economy of the country was the registration of draft Law 3357. And what is the value of the tax on the capital output? It is very valuable to someone who wants to invest in the development of the country. In fact, those who withdraw funds from Ukraine or who no longer see the possibility of being and working in Ukraine do not need a tax on their capital. So what we're talking about right now is that it's very obvious that investment parks don't play and can't play any positive role for the economy. What's important now? Those payers who work in Ukraine have the opportunity to apply the taxes imposed by you in this draft of the tax law on the capital. It's not just detinction, it's a significant step towards detinction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u114	88 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[11:54:51]] For 118 The decision is not taken. 90th Amendment, Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u115	So the tax on capital output can be the driving force that will allow Ukrainian workers to hold on to taxes at this difficult time. The thing is, as much as we're talking about here in the Supreme Hall, it's all very good or very bad, but we really need to communicate with our voters. And it is unfortunate that this week the voters did not give an opinion on the non - acceptance of the draft Law of 5600. And now that we're discussing the most pressing issue for the economy -- the tax on capital output, some are trying to avoid this discussion, and it would be necessary, a professional discussion. Do you have any idea what a tax on the capital outlay is? Do you realize what it is about, and why it is useful for the economy of a loving country? And why he has already benefited even those countries that.?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u116	90 Amendments to the People’s Deputy of Jujanina She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:21]] For 113 The decision is not taken. 91st. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u117	So when you talk about the history of the tax discussion on the capital output in the country, it's very long and it's not easy, it's actually not easy. Because, let's say, we're discussing draft laws. This draft law or the very concept on large sites, there's a difference of opinion, and this should really work out the intelligence of our economists and employees at the Ministry of Finance. We have to protect the job in Ukraine, give businesses in Ukraine the opportunity to work, that's the first. And second of all, we have to understand, and who is against the tax on the resulting capital -- of course, those who are constantly withdrawing funds from Ukraine. I mean, right now. Because the tax on the capital will be collected from the funds that come out of Ukraine. So what we're talking about right now is that there's protection on the part of the government that it's the withdrawal of the funds, not that it's the money that works in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u118	91 Amendments to the People’s Deputy of the South. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:52]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Ninety-two amendments to Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u119	So Estonia's experience on the tax on capital output, which was introduced in 2020, Georgia, 2017, Latvia, since 2018, has been positive. And when we analyze exactly why it's positive, this is where the understanding of what tax payers are still spending outside the country, what is the essence of these payments, and at what stage of development and work in the country is taking that kind of capital out of the country. So I would still ask now, maybe the Ministry of Finance is somewhere to hear and see, to think about giving the "Serial of the People" team and applying the tax on the capital output to all taxpayers. We need to introduce unique things that will be attractive in Ukraine and for those who work in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I place 92 amendments to the national MP of Jujanina. It is rejected by the committee, so please identify and vote. [[11:59:24]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I announce a break until 12:30. I'm reminding you that we're having a book show. People's deputies are invited to join us in reviewing this exhibition.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u121	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Once again, an extremely interesting book exhibit. I invite the National Deputies to join the Ukrainian Book Review and to read them. Let's move on. 93rd, Shahov. Are you insisting? Don't insist, thank you. Are you insisting? Please, Shahov, 93rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u122	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, if a statement of tax authority is to be filed, the representative must be certified of notary confidence. So it's suggested that you add a point to that question. This will help to avoid manipulation and forgeries, since notary should always be sure of the validity of the authorized representative’s document. This is a protection for our entrepreneurs. So I'm going to ask you to support this. And I would also like to place in the next plenary a bill of 5866-1 on the support of our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u123	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u124	Committee position. The amendment was rejected, considering that paragraph 1 "authorized by this person" already includes the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 93rd Amendment of the People’s Deputy Shahov. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:37:39]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 94. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u126	94, 96, 99 and 100 -- and I'll close this block for two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u127	Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, when we talk about the tax on the capital output, it's kind of strange to be a novelty in 2015. Today we can look at the experience of European neighbours, our neighbours who have passed the path of economic development, and talk about Ukraine, taking this experience into account. Because, as I said before, Estonia, Georgia, Latvia, they have introduced a tax and they are building their economy by applying the tax on the capital. And by the way, in the OECD action plan to combat tax evasion and tax evasion, Estonia even contains a single reference to a country whose legislation does not conflict with European rules on the possibility of such a form of corporate tax. What did Poland do? It also introduced a tax on the capital of small businesses in 2021. Fellows, please listen, because Poland is our neighbor who takes, more faithfully, our labour force is the most used demand in Poland, and Poland is the model for many of our citizens who make decisions, especially now that hundreds of people are standing in the square. So yesterday, while in Western Ukraine, the vast majority of them say that they will no longer work and suffer with legislation in Ukraine but will go to Poland. So if we don't learn about other people's mistakes, if we don't learn how to apply the experience of neighbouring countries to keep our country in this difficult time, then we won't be able to raise an economy that just flies into a cool peak. What are you hoping for, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u129	I can. They need a turn, don't they, Nina Petrovna? Then I place 94 amendments to the National Deputy of South Carolina. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:14]] For-89 The decision is not taken. The following amendment is made by Nina Petrovna of Jujanina. It's also not counted by the committee, it's rejected. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:38]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna’s next 99th amendment. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:00]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment in this block is number 100 Nina Petrovna of the South. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:23]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Next amendment, one second, 102nd. Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, listen very carefully. The Act on Promoting Digital Economy Development in Ukraine sets out a number of restrictions that prevent a person from being a resident of the City. Regrettably, some of the criteria pose a significant risk to the use of special conditions in the City of Acts, which I have already mentioned. Note that using the resident tax scheme, legal persons who are the founders of legal entities that are the organizers of gambling; legal persons whose founders are persons registered in offshore zones; legal persons whose founders are persons registered in countries that are included in the FATF in the list of countries that are not cooperating in the area of income-laundering. My amendment prohibits the above-mentioned legal persons from using the corporate tax regime of the residents of Acts City. It's the kind of safety that's definitely missing in the draft law that we're looking at right now. I'd like to support you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u131	102. Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:56]] For-103 The decision is not taken. 109th. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u132	103rd and 109th. Each of us can recover part of the tax paid from the budget. That's what we're talking about, a few days left on the 2021 Declaration. This possibility of a return by the State is already realized in the Tax Code. But here, except for the social costs that are in effect and the rules of the Tax Code are in force, the first project from the local budgets is to return the VAT for the expenses incurred for the acquisition of the shares of residents of Acts City. We discussed the subject. All local authorities are strongly opposed. What does the VAT paid to the local budget have to do with the acquisition of the shares of the residents of Acts City? Do you have any idea what's going to happen now because of this stimulus? The incentive may be in some other way, but it certainly does not compensate for the cost of acquiring shares through a tax discount. Because it's from taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u133	Two adjustments. 103rd, Nina Petrovna, she's partially accounted for, so I understand you insist on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[12:44:33]] For 101 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. And 109 amendments. It's not counted, it's rejected by the committee. Also, please identify and vote. [[12:44:56]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Frolow, 114th. Don't insist. Saucuk, 116th. Don't insist. 120th, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, the distribution of profits by a legal person for the benefit of its owners is clear to everyone, it's dividend payments, and they're taxed in Ukraine today. The income of natural persons in the form of dividends received from resident income tax payers is also taxed at a rate of 5 percent. The income of natural persons in the form of dividends received from nonresidents is taxed by 9 percent of the joint investment institutions. These are the incomes of the local budgets. Instead, for the first time, the project proposes not to tax the income of natural persons in the form of dividends received from residents of Acts City on the condition that they are paid once every two years. This is the creation of a completely hidden tax evasion scheme through dividends. These schemes had existed before, and we had disrupted them in all the ways and standards that were enshrined in the Tax Code. Now this rule will simply be a direct guide to avoiding paying wages, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u135	120 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:46:38]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. 121st Zablotsky. Don't insist. 122nd, Mishagin. Don't insist. 125th, Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u136	Galina Vasilchenko, “Justice. ” Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the essence of this bill. If most IT workers are now working on a third group of entrepreneurs and pay 5 percent of the turnover, this bill actually provides for a debt rate for their PSF and will be 5 percent on a permanent basis. Our union generally supports the concept of the differentiation of PFCs and generally tax cuts in various areas of business. Especially in times of crisis, these taxes need to be reduced in order to increase the tax base itself and thus to compensate the state budget. This right here is about giving the same tax rate to doctors and educators. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u137	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u138	The bill is designed to stimulate the residents of Acts City, and you also know that they have acquired residence and are in line with the established standards of Act 1667. The criteria, not for all branches, are strictly the criteria prescribed in the law. In case the City Act proves effective, the list of qualified activities may be expanded by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u139	125th Amendment of the National MP Vasilchenko She was rejected by the committee. You heard the committee's position. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:47]] For-103 The decision is not taken. 127th, Zalocksky. Don't insist. 128th, Savichuk. Don't insist. 129th, Cold. Don't insist. 132nd, Savichuk. Don't insist. 133rd, Gorenjuk. Don't insist. 134th, Eugene. And I understand that this is the final amendment, and we still have a few more amendments to confirm. People’s deputies are asked to take their seats, for after that we will vote in favour of amendments to the confirmation and the law as a whole. Please, Nina Petrovna, 134 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, in fact this bill could be of quality and one that would either leave the tax credits in Ukraine for the IT sector. In fact, such a tax system has been around for many years, and that's why it's evolved. But in fact, there are some inadequacies in the fact that the IT branch used mainly the private entrepreneur -- the FOP. But at this point right over here, 54, to which I made the amendments, is about further relationships with the FOPs on a simplified system of taxation. There's been a long discussion in the room about these relationships, and I would still like to hear an explanation, and more likely the arguments for the society that will take place in the further activities of the residents of Operation City with the FOPs, who are doing the same kind of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u141	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u142	You're right that we've discussed this issue and not once in the meetings of our committee and working groups. And during the committee's meeting, it's both conceptually and editorially consistent with the bill on the co-operation of the residents of the City of Action with the FOP. For the second reading, the level of tax burden remains unchanged: the VAT – 5 per cent, the EU – 22 from the minimum wage, and the military – 1.5 per cent. So the tax burden is consistent with the load on the FOP. We only create conditions with you when the residents of the City Act have the right to choose and make decisions on their own. Thank you. Therefore, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is the final amendment that will be taken into account, so I'm going to make 134 amendments to the national MP of South Carolina. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:38]] For 109 The decision is not taken. Yes, all right, no one will insist on taking his amendments into account. And so we move on, we move on, we move on to the amendments that will apply to confirmation. Who will it be, Julia Volodymyr or Sergey Volodymyrovich? Sergei Volodymyrovich. Sergei Volodymyrovich, 4th Amendment. Are you asking first? Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to point out that, between the first and second readings, the law has changed by almost two thirds, and in fact it has written a new Tax Code for so-called residents of Acts City, which in principle violates basic principles of equality and discrimination in the taxation of residents, and then article 116 of the Rules. What about the 4 amendments? This amendment violates two fundamental principles of taxation: non-discrimination and neutrality of taxation. These principles of taxation are provided for in article 4, paragraph 4.1, of the Tax Code. We think that the definition of the normal price, is and should be universal to all taxpayers, because there can't be two identical definitions, more faithfully, two different definitions of the same question, but for different taxpayers. This violates the basic principles laid down in the Tax Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u145	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u146	The amendment was taken into account by the committee, so I ask my colleagues to support and vote in favour. Thank you. Support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we're starting to vote for the amendments that apply to confirmation. The first is the amendment of 4 People's Deputies of Getmantsev. She's a committee member. At the same time, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko asks for this amendment to be confirmed. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. 4th Amendment. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:54:04]] For 273 Correction confirmed. Let's see the factions. 13 amendments. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, please. 13th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u148	Thank you, Your Honor! We insist that all the basic definitions in the Tax Code should be the same for all taxpayers. I emphasize once again, they can't do one terminology, but different definitions govern essentially different relationships. As for the definition of "controlled operations." In fact, in the Tax Code, this is defined according to FATF, FATCA, and Financiing legislation. And in fact, the whole point of this definition is to make sure that you don't have any dirty money. Unfortunately, this definition, given to the so-called residents of the City, provides the opportunity, in fact, to avoid such control and, let's say, in some cases, legally wash away funds that are unacceptable. But the key question is: there can't be two different definitions of the same concept, essentially in the same area of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, another amendment to the confirmation is amendment No. 13 of the People's Deputies of Getmantsev. The committee took it into account and confirmed that it should be kept in mind. At the same time, the National MP Vlasenko asks for amendment 13 to be confirmed. Dear colleagues, 13th Amendment. Please vote. [[12:55:58]] For 282 Decision taken. I've got the next 15th amendment. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u151	One second, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Nina Petrovna, I'm sorry if you could give me a list of the amendments. I already have a simple list. I'll give you your 145th, I remember, but we're only on the 13th. I'm sorry, 15th. Sergei Volodymyrovich, 15th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Once again, between the first and second readings, the bill essentially changed by about two thirds and the bill proposed all sorts of very interesting things. In particular, Amendment 15 essentially allows dividends to be paid to business owners even in the event of the loss of the issuer of these securities. So this means that a bankrupt enterprise can actually pay dividends to its owners. And then we'll talk about the fact that these dividends don't just pay off, and they pay off at low tax rates. This creates completely openly corrupt mechanisms and may actually look like an opportunity to create financial pyramids. I want to remind you that in a very similar way, the very famous financial pyramid "MM" functioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that this is the 15th amendment that is counted by the committee. This is the amendment of the Czernjev People's Deputy. It looks at Sergei Vladimirovich Vlasenek for confirmation. Therefore, I ask you to vote in favour of the 15th amendment. [[12:57:57]] For 279 Decision taken. Sergey Volodymyrovich, one second because Nina Petrovna passed on, she's asking for another 12. Nina Petrovna, 12th Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, did you realize that for the first time in your local budgets, you are returning the VAT for the expenses incurred in acquiring the shares of the residents of Acts City? It was the fourth amendment, and you supported it, unfortunately. My amendment, which I put in for confirmation, 12, is the Gethmans' amendment. And here's the paradox is that they've given Mincify the function of a regulator who doesn't even have data to verify the subject's status as resident of Acts City, and there's a rule that they're going to get some data in the tax office. The Ministry of Finance, which was present on the committee, says that this is the first time in history when it is actually created, not that it is corrupt, but that it is a sort of offshore zone in Ukraine with regard to those entities that will be subject to Acts City. I ask you not to consider this amendment, it has to be written in a different edition. The tax authority should have the right to control, otherwise the Mincifre cannot be the regulator for the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, the 12th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Getmancev. She's a committee member. Nina Petrovna Jujanina asks for confirmation. I'll bet you a vote. [[12:59:39]] For 282 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. Next amendment 18. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u156	We believe that by this right the 18 residents of the City Act are formally derived from the general definition of the residents of Ukraine, because this right cancels the reference to paragraph 141.9 of the Tax Code. To our conviction, this will lead to the fact that international tax rules will not apply to the so - called residents of the City, and in this way Ukraine violates its obligations under the Association Agreement with the European Union, bilateral agreements on the avoidance of double taxation, and other international obligations. Please don't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, the 18th Amendment of the People's Deputy Chernev. She's a committee member. At the same time, the National MP Vlasenko puts it on the stand. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:01:07]] For 279 Decision taken. Next amendment 23. Excuse me, the 16th amendment will be made by the national deputy Eutusek. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u158	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. In the 16th Amendment, which states that it has nothing to do with tax legislation, because it merely determines the competence of the executive authority to implement State policy in the field of migration and the competence of the Mincifre. It is suggested that if necessary, changes should be made to the laws of profile rather than distorting the Ukrainian Tax Code with unnecessary positions. In addition, the amendment sets out the specifics for the chamber checks of residents of Acts City, which violates the equality of tax conditions. Please place an amendment on the confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, the amendment of 18 People's Deputies of Chernev. It's counted by the committee. At the same time, the national deputy Eutuszek asks for confirmation. I'm betting on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:02:32]] For 281 Decision taken. Next thing I know, it's the 23rd. Vlasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, there is another example when special definitions are created. We have a basic general definition of the tax base issue. You can't give individual taxpayers that definition, as it were, specifically. This violates the basic principles of the rule of law as such. So there's not supposed to be any specifics here for individual residents of one city or another. We think that this is actually going to barter relationships and potentially distort competition in the market at all. That's why. And we think that this amendment also changes the partial order of taxation of dividends, which is also, to our belief, wrong. We propose not to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, the 23rd Amendment of the People’s Deputy Getmantsev is counted by committee. National MP Vlasenko is asking for confirmation. I'm betting on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:04:00]] For 276 Decision taken. The following amendment 24. It is confirmed by the national deputy Eutuszk. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u162	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Amendment No. 24 of Danila Getmanchev's authorship does not apply in any way to the subject matter of regulation of the project, so it is in grave contravention of the requirements of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Supreme Rules, and it duplicates the rules of the sad law of Ukraine 5600. Please place the application for confirmation and do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, the 24th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Getmancev. She's a committee member. The national deputy Eutuszek asks for confirmation. I'm betting on this amendment for confirmation. Please vote. 24 amendments. [[13:05:05]] For 281 Decision taken. Next, Your Honor, 74th Amendment. National MP Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u164	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, Law 74 grossly violates two fundamental principles of taxation: non-discrimination and neutrality of taxation. This is article 4, paragraph 4.1, of the Tax Code. In addition, it leads to potential distortions of competition and increased corruption. Moreover, the law violates the agreements reached this year in October within the framework of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development concerning the establishment of a minimum corporate tax of 15 per cent, to which Ukraine officially joined. How, then, is our international commitment? Please don't support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, the 74th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Getmancev. It's counted by the committee. At the same time, the national MP, Zimbaluk, asks for confirmation. I'll bet 74 a confirmation amendment. Please vote. [[13:06:49]] For 279 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, then Amendment 85. Cimbal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u166	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable presiding, respected colleagues, number 85 sets out the characteristics of taxation of the profits of the so - called residents of Acts City, placing them in a privileged position for other payers. Thus, two fundamental principles of taxation are violated: non-discrimination and neutrality of taxation. Moreover, this amendment violates the arrangements that I have already mentioned. Dear colleagues, until the second reading of this bill, as Sergey Vlasenko has stated today, it is practically two-thirds of the written in the new edition. This is practically the Tax Code, but it gives priority to taxation on the individual sector’s income, and it should be addressed in the complex with regard to all other subjects. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, the 85th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Getmancev. She was counted by the committee. At the same time, the national MP, Zimbaluk, asks for confirmation. I'll bet 85 for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:08:31]] For 281 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, look, there's still a small number of amendments, but 113th and 115th asked me at the same time, both Sergei Volodymyrovich and Nina Petrovna. I could ask someone to be one, 113, one, 115? You're 115, Nina Petrovna is 113. Nina Petrovna, 113th. Please, Nina Petrovna, 113 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u168	I have 106 more, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u169	Ah, 106th. Okay. Let's do 106 y, then 113 y. 106th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, do you know the general rules of taxation, for example, those social benefits that may be paid by the employer? It's non-state pension and health insurance. If it is made in the amount of 16,000,250 dollars (not more than two and a half IUU dollars), these payments are not taxed by VAT. So, now in this law, draft legislation, for hired persons, it is the subjects of the residents of Acts City that they propose to remove all these restrictions. In the following amendment, there are no more than 30 percent of their wages. Given that these are hundreds of thousands of dollars, you can imagine that the 30th is one third of the wages, that's going to be paid in shadow. I mean, I don't know what you're leading up to. Why are such unequal people before the law? A hired person should pay a tax and not pay a tax. What kind of justice is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, the 106th Amendment of the Czernjev People's Deputy. She's a committee member. At the same time, Nina Petrovna asks for confirmation. I'll bet 106 for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:10:21]] For 274 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. Then, as we agreed, 113th is Nina Petrovna, 115th is Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, when we talked about justice and the still existing tax system for the Aitish is the third group of simplified taxation systems. Right, wrong, but it was used by different sectors of the economy, and it justified itself, and the sector grew up. And now you're talking about what we're going to do for this particular area, which is not going to work exclusively in the field of IT, there are preferences that no state and our state budget can afford. I think you've played so much that you don't even feel the numbers that will make the budget. If there are now excessive inflationary revenues in the state budget, it is time for the tax to be applied to the capital. You can't go back from the PDF, paid for by everyone, to buy the shares of the City Act. If this is a developed field, what are you stimulating? It's a hidden income payment that won't be taxed. Where's Minfin?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, 113 amendments, she's counted by committee. Nina Petrovna requires that she be put to the test. I'll bet you 113. Please vote. [[13:12:04]] For 278 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. 115 revisions. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u174	Thank you, colleagues. The amendment proposed by the 115th National Deputy of Getmantsev. It is suggested that no tax income should be included, that is, no dividends should be taxed on the activities of legal persons. This is a direct realization of the principle that everyone will have an offshore. So this is actually the creation of an offshore zone in the so-called Action City. They won't. Income is taxed at a low rate, dividends are not included in the taxable income of the person who owns the corporate rights of this Act City. What is it, not an offshore? Why do we need the Virgin Islands, Cyprus, or something else if it creates Ukrainian offshores? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u175	115th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Getmantsev. She's a committee member. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko asks for confirmation. I'll bet 115 for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:13:35]] For 272 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, look, we still have four amendments to make by Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. And one amendment is Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich. And then we go to the vote. Is that right? Then I give the floor to the 126th amendment of Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u176	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, my amendment, which is proposed for rejection, is number 126. It is in fact contrary to the fundamental principles of State tax legislation regarding equality in the taxation of the income of all tax residents of the state, I stress -- all of them. But I'm worried about another fact. The explanatory note states that the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the State Tax Office strongly oppose the adoption of such a bill. I have a question. An important law for the income part of the government budget. Why is there no position here of public representatives of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance and Tax Service? They do.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, the 126th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Getmancev. It's counted by the committee. At the same time, the national MP, Zimbaluk, asks for confirmation. I'll bet you 126. Please vote. [[13:15:31]] For 269 Decision taken. Next amendment 137. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u178	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. With regard to 137 revisions, it would be very interesting to see the conclusion of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy. Because we think 137 rights are absolutely corrupt, because by the beginning of 2022 there was a partial calendar month, during which it was impossible to make investments that were sufficient to obtain the status of the so-called resident of Acts City, so tax deductions and privileges. A similar example is the laws adopted for the Euro - 2012 organization that allowed the end to rob the budget. Question: Has this bill and such an amendment been passed by anticorruption experts, respected colleagues? Please don't support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, 137 amendments. She's a committee member. At the same time, the national MP, Zimbaluk, asks for confirmation. I'll bet you 137. Please vote. [[13:17:05]] For 269 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. Dear colleagues, we have three amendments left, and we will go to voting for the law as a whole. The next amendment is 141. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u180	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. The honourable presiding and honourable representatives of anti-corruption bodies, regulation 141, listen carefully (this is for the transcript), states that regardless of the income of the EU’s gig contract, the EU should pay the minimum premium. So it doesn't matter if you get 100 dollars or 1 billion dollars, you pay the minimum premium. This proposal eventually destroys the system of solidarity, but it does not offer any alternatives, such as the personification of the only social contribution to the balance. The authors clearly don't want the pensioners, the Pension Fund, to have an extra income or fullness, I'm not talking about the unemployment fund anymore. Please don't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u181	Fellow dignitaries, 141 amendments to the national MPs Rudik and Ironborn. She's a committee member. At the same time, the national deputy of Zimbaluk demands confirmation. I'll bet 141 for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:18:51]] For 273 Decision taken. And the final amendment for National Deputy Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluka is 144th. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Edit 144 states that the so-called resident of the City Act, I emphasize once again, is the same as the previous one, regardless of the size of the income received, pays the only social contribution, attention, minimum premium and regardless of the amount of income. Name the state where that approach is. And on the basis of the above, and the adjustments that we put here to confirm, unfortunately, they stayed. As Sergey Vlasenko said, given that he was rewritten for second reading, there is only one option in the Supreme Council: to return this bill for second reading again, otherwise it will be cancelled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, 144 amendments. It's counted by the committee. At the same time, the National MP, Zimbaluk, asks that 144 amendments be made to confirm. I'll bet Amendment 144 on confirmation. Please vote. [[13:20:29]] For 283 Decision taken. And the final amendment that will be made today, after that we're going to vote for the law as a whole, is 145 amendments to the people's parliament of Getmanchev. The word is given by Coltunovich Aleksandro Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u184	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I have a question for you regarding the fiscal relationship. See, you are proposing in this three - month amendment to entrust Kabina with the development of a mechanism to compensate tax payers for the realization of the right to a tax reduction and beyond. So I've opened up an explanatory note, and in financial and economic terms, you're talking about the fact that implementation does not require additional financial costs from government and local budgets. Appropriately, considering our mildly negative or unfavourable macrofinancial architecture and the budget deficit that goes with your language. I'm asking you why, because as a responsible person, you've been preparing for the committee. What additional budget costs will need to be made, and will there be further adjustments to the budget code? If that is the case, then perhaps we need to break down the amendment so that we do not make matters worse. Thank you. But I'm asking you to answer the question, the position of the committee. That's an important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u185	Committee position 145, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u186	The editing, as you know, was supported by the committee's decision. The amendment, like all other amendments, is important in this bill, which is balanced, according to the committee of profile, the Ministry of Digital Transformation and representatives of the IT sector. The bill as a whole only provides for budgeting in the scales I have been sounding so far. By 2025, previous calculations indicate that GDP from this sector can reach 10 percent, and if you transfer it to money, it is 16.5 billion dollars. That's why everyone you're talking about wins -- Ukraine's local budgets and budgets as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u187	There's a need to put this 145 in, right? We won't, okay? Dear colleagues, we've completed our discussion of the bill, we're moving on to a decision. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Promotion of Digital Economy in Ukraine (project registration number 5376). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? [[13:23:27]] For 285 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Let's see the factions. Let's see the factions. Who's with the procedure? Sergey Volodymyrovich first, Irina Volodymyrical friend, please. First Vlasenko, then Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u188	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, the next in the agenda is Bill 4409, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy. But I would like to draw your attention, Mr. Chairman, to the fact that, according to the Rules, comparative tables are issued to national deputies in at least 10 days. As far as we know, yesterday, just yesterday, we got a replacement table from 13.12. So just yesterday, less than the time before this bill was considered, we got a comparative table that was substituted. We understand that sometimes Parliament looks with one eye at the questions of 10 days and tables. But, Mr. Head, less than a day is an absolutely unacceptable story. So I'd like to ask you to consider this and today to withdraw this bill from consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u189	Please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u190	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Nina Jujanini for holding the debate high and for going along with the amendments, trying in this session room to demonstrate the need for professional discussion on the amendments, and to draw the attention of the chairman to the need to comply with the Rules. Article 27 of the Rules, it does call for abstention from comments, and article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, part four similarly appeals to the presiding officer to stop, to turn off the microphone when it comes to switching to personalities and insults. And I want absolutely responsible right now to turn to the electorate, that unfortunately the person who from the rostrum represented this bill is such a Hogilashvili, only in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u191	Please turn off the microphone using your slang. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. If you're offended, you know, we're turning off the microphone. Thank you. Dear colleagues, next bill 4409. I'm sorry, dear colleagues, we have two breaks with a replacement for the performance, two breaks with a replacement for the performance. First of all, I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Rudik, please. And then there's another one with a replacement for the performance. I understand Irina Volodymyrna will be, right? Please. First, Ruddick.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u192	Dear Ukrainians, the parliamentary year ends, soon the calendar year. What did he bring to each of you? The tariffs are disproportionate, small pensions, wages, the threat of a full - scale Russian Federation invasion, COVID, and a pile of deaths. And even this year's parliament has not been able to solve the problem of more than a million people, which we call small entrepreneurs. Someone calls them micro-entrepreneurs, someone calls them FOPs, and today, like a whole year, they're standing under the walls of our parliament, waiting for us to solve one simple question: to give them the opportunity in these difficult times for our state not to tax as big business, but as small business, to give them a chance to feed their families, to give them a chance to survive. But Parliament can't hear them. On September 20, 2019, this majority passed the law (237 for, of which 235 are "servants") to introduce cashiers for each small operation. Only recently did Mr. Getmants say: only coffee can be sold without an RRO. In Parliament we registered three bills last year at this time, in December, we were collecting signatures for the next session, but we didn't get together, we didn't have time. They said you don't want it like that. Two more bills were registered this summer: 5866, 5866-1. And on this Conciliation Council before the last plenary week, everyone, without exception, all the MPs and factions, their representatives asked Parliament and the "servants" -- let's give them a chance. No, the only representative of the "servants" has held back and blocked the decision. It's only a few days left and the only chance to survive is to delay the entry of these cashiers once more a year. There's Anya Speedboat. In memory of Anton Polakov, I have a request: sign under the parliamentary agenda so that we can give them a chance for another year to give them a chance at the beginning of next year's decision to give them the opportunity to report not only through the RRO, but through the scrolls and through the book of accounting. All of it. The state won't die from this, but the Ukrainians will thank you for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, there is another statement with a break, with a replacement for the performance. The word is Nina Petrovni Jujanini, I understand. Yeah? Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u194	Dear Ukrainians, today the anti - entrepreneurial ten of Getmantsev was added by another draft of Law 5376. Today, just a few minutes ago, you've given Mincify not only the regulator's functions, but also the Tax Service. Today, without knowing it, you voted for all those close to the Mincify to have great financial opportunities. It's not even an offshore, it's something even more, because it doesn't have to be risked, it's all going to be done legally in the country, in its country, despite the scarce arrival of local VAT budgets. But even though you set or abolish taxes in general for the residents of Diya City, you're also defiling the existing tax legislation, and you're telling all citizens once again that when paying taxes is not all the same, it's not for everyone, it's not for their own, it's not necessary to pay taxes for their loved ones. And here are those standards for you. And those who will say that we did something for the IT branch, please don't hide some good standards in the insolent disregard for the legislation you've just allowed. You even divided the IT branch into two components. Did you know that 50 percent of the A.I.s didn't support this bill? You know, they tried to stand up for their rights and prove that they couldn't just have those criteria, by those criteria, to have these corporate benefits? You didn't hear them, you separated the Ayahites, just like you did all the entrepreneurs that are standing under the walls of the Supreme Council today. Without understanding, you accepted and regretted the buttons. But now, taking into account the difficult situation in the country’s economy, the financial situation of each family, come to your senses! Let's do, you promised them, eight months, it's these people who are standing here today, eight months working at the President's Office on a balanced approach to resolve the problems they have. You lied to them, you lied to them all: the president, the executor. who was the head of the department, who is now the Minister of Economics. You screwed up people, they're forced to be here today. Do you think they're comfortable in the cold standing on the street and saying some slogans? Is it difficult for you to hear them and to make the standards acceptable for a simplified tax system so that two million people remain in Ukraine? Well, right now, there's only a few days left, don't take the laws that are registered, accept your short, balanced. Once you have promised people, keep your promises, you cannot lie all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u195	Replica, the Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u196	Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u197	No, no. The Gethmans, the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u198	The Gethmans, the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u199	Yeah. Thank you, thank you. In fact, in this room today, I think of everyone the most, so I have the right to a replica. First of all, with respect to the tax on capital output, I want to remind a college that saves so much for the tax on capital output, that we're putting it in. Now there's a tax on the capital. And you promised people five years to bring him in, and you didn't introduce him in any way, you lied to people, you led a goat. As for RRO, finally let's stop this ridiculous discussion when we're in the same head, with the same mouth, we're asking to raise wages for teachers, doctors, pensioners and cancel the RRO. Are you schizophrenic or something?Oh, my God! Do you want a civilization in our country or do you want to have the Middle Ages in our country?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u200	Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko, some announcements.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u201	Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Interfractional Union for the Effective Public Service and the Implementation of European Union and Economic Cooperation and Development Organization standards. The headquarters of this union are the national deputies of Frolov Paul Valerijovich, Skrum Alon Ivanovna, Gerasimov Artura Volodymyrovich, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, Papiev Mikolaajovich, Batenka Taras Ivanovich, Bilozoz Larissa Mikolayovna, Lozinski Roman Mihajlovich, Light Julia Alexandrovna, and Kornienka Aleksandra Sergiyovich. Another announcement. [[B in m in s a l in]] Again? They're in line with the leadership of the Supreme Council factions, we can check it out somewhere. In accordance with the same article of the Rules, I also report on the creation of the 9th Interfractional MP for Development of the milk sector of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of this association elected Ukrainian national deputies Bunin Sergey Valeriyovich and Bogdansky Andrija Volodymyrovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u202	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, we move on to the next issue of the agenda: Bill 4409. This is the second reading of the draft Law amending the Code of Bankruptcy (second reading). Dear colleagues, would anyone insist on repairs? No one will insist, I understand. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. No one insists on repairs. It's unique. I therefore propose to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Procedures (project registration number 4409). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:36:14]] For 217 The decision is not taken. N, that, dear fellows, we vote in favour of re-orienting the second. And thank you to the National Deputies for being in their jobs. Dear colleagues, let's support this bill for re-reading. Dear colleagues, I propose that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Procedures be amended to read again. Please be supportive. [[13:37:03]] For 260 Decision taken. The bill went to second again. Dear colleagues, the next bill is extremely important and I am pleased to see it in due time. This is a draft law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the armed forces of other States to Ukraine in 2022 for participation in multinational training (project registration number 6359). We need to make a few votes before we discuss it. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I propose to vote ad hoc on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session, which requires 226 votes. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, once again, I propose to vote ad hoc on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session on Bill 6359. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:38:25]] For 309 Decision taken. Now there is a proposal to consider this issue in a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:38:50]] For 253 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to Deputy Defence Minister Petrenko Anatoly Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed for consideration by the draft Law approving the President's decision to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2022 to participate in multinational education. The adoption of the bill will allow for the preparation and conduct of 10 multi-national trainings in the territory of our state, involving some 21,000 Ukrainian Armed Forces and 11.5,000 NATO member countries and other key foreign partners with appropriate weapons and military technology. Teaching is an important annual element in the training of our troops and forces, allowing us to develop modern abilities for multinational combined operations on land, air, sea, and cyberspace. In addition, such training allows for complex logistics for all participants under the sole NATO standards and the development of key military infrastructures in the country. In 2022, approximately 52 million dollars were planned for the Ministry of Defence to conduct multinational training. It is also envisaged that the necessary material resources will be made available by foreign partners in accordance with the relevant legislation in this area. Throughout the course of multinational education in Ukraine, it will contribute to strengthening national defence, support political and diplomatic efforts to preserve a stable security environment in the region and allow the interaction of the Ukrainian military to be enhanced within the framework of the State's Euro-Atlantic integration. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u204	Thank you, Anatoly Grigorovich. I invite a co-rapporteur from this issue, the head of the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee, Alexander Mikhailovich. Please, Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u205	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence at its meeting on December 1, 2021, reviewed the draft Act approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the military forces of other States to Ukraine in 2022 for participation in multinational education (registration number 6359), submitted by the President of Ukraine and designated as urgent by him. The Supreme Council of Ukraine approves annually, in accordance with paragraph 23 of part one of article 85 and article 93 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President's decision to allow troops of other States' armed forces to enter Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not see any legal obstacles to the adoption of this bill and notes that the information added to the bill contains all the necessary data required by article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of admission and conditions of residence of the armed forces of other States in Ukraine. In the light of the foregoing, the Committee of the Supreme Council recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the armed forces of other States to Ukraine in 2022 for participation in multinational education (registration number 6359), as a result of the first reading, to accept as a basis and as a whole. Thank you, colleagues. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u206	Thank you, Alexander Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Is there a need? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Lušnjak Mikola Volodymirovich, MP "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u207	Please pass the word to Paul Bakuntz.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u208	Paul Andriovich Bakunec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u209	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u210	I'm sorry, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u211	Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to the rostrum to invite you to the Yavorovščina, a very small, picturesque small village of Starichi. This is where the power of our Ukrainian soldier boils. This is a place where our defenders, our military personnel, are trained. Right here, at the International Centre for Peace and Security of the National Academy of Land Army of Ukraine, the name of Gehtman Peter Sagaidach has been taught annually since the year 94, in which not only our soldiers are involved, but better soldiers from the far-off United States of America, from far-off Canada, from nearby Poland, as well as from other NATO member states. It's in the kind of teachings and spirit-like that not only take place in Lviv, but also in the Plains, in Poltavian, in Santa Claus, in Hersonian, in Hersonian, such as Sy Breez, Cossack Mace, Partnership for Peace, Repid Trident. It is in these teachings that our military acquires the experience and coherence of the best armies in the world. So we urge you to support this bill, to allow the armed forces of other states into Ukraine in order to strengthen the strength and confidence of our Ukrainian defender, our Ukrainian soldier. Praise the Armed Forces! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u212	Heroic glory! Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Mejalik Viktor Nichiporovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u213	Please give it to Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u214	Sergey Rudik, please. Sergei Jaroslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, why is it important to support this bill? Because Putin put an ultimatum on our NATO non-inclusion allies this year alone. It's not just increasing the security, it's the participation of our military units in these trainings, it's the learning of the compatibility of our Armed Forces with our allies. The more such instruction is available, the more we will be able to maintain our independence. And there were no questions. What kind of training is this? I'll tell you. It's a multi-national teaching called United Efforts 22 -- it's a Repid Trident 22 -- a Ukrainian-British teaching called Cossack Mays 22 -- it's a multinational teaching called La Lavine 22 -- it's a Ukrainian-Polish teaching called Silver Saber 22 -- it's a Ukrainian-American teaching called Sea Breez 22 -- it's Ukrainian-Romanian teaching "Riverain 22" -- it's a "Clenova Ark 22" and a multinational teaching called Viking 22." You will at least know who we will associate our forces with in order to defeat our common enemy. But in order to be able to feel it on our own, I invite my colleague to sign contracts for the first round reserve with various units of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and to feel what they're feeding, what they're breathing, what's the weapons of our forces. And to bring this near, on January 1st, on New Year’s Eve, on Christmas, on Christmas Eve, come to the troops of our armed forces with a bucket of olives, meet these beautiful festivals. Then the army will know that the Supreme Council is with the army. Glory to Ukraine! And glory to our Armed Forces!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u216	Heroic glory! The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u217	Please pass the word to Michael Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u218	Mikhail Zabrodsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, it's very good that the Deputy Secretary of Defense mentioned the only logistics, it has a direct bearing on international learning, because there are also double standards for the ICMB, unfortunately, and food, and housing for members of the military of partner countries and Ukrainian military personnel. It's about the bill itself. The right and necessary bill, which will undoubtedly be supported by the faction "European Solidarity" on the basis and in general. Ten large-scale military training measures, tens of thousands of military personnel, thousands of military technicians, and most importantly, live communication and the ability to learn from practice the same standards that there have been so many disputes lately. From a political point of view, this is, first of all, a clear signal for everyone. We are not alone, with Ukraine, and now the entire civilized world. In addition, it contributes to the implementation of national programs, both the implementation of international standards and the further development of our own Armed Forces, as if it did not defraud someone in Moscow or even in this room. So we want our military personnel to learn new heights of military skill, and we, as parliamentarians, will finally find it very interesting to work out a new and effective mechanism for creating a legislative framework for such measures. For example, a long - term agreement regarding the admission of foreign departments may be involved. This would first confirm the determination of our intentions, their irreversibility. And secondly, it would free us from the annual extra effort and make it completely independent to make such decisions from the degree of political life in this room and in the country as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u220	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sowsun Inni Romanovni, the faction of the political party "The Voice". Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u221	Please give the floor to Colonel Roman Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, this is indeed a very important bill, a bill for our state and for our Armed Forces. And it has, in my view, two elements: it's a safe and political component. If we're talking about security, we need to understand that this is, in fact, the discovery of great potential for our Armed Forces, this is an opportunity to interact with the divisions of NATO countries, other European and world countries. It's an opportunity to signal to our enemies that we are not alone, and we all, together with our partners, are protecting and able to interact in the protection of our nation. But we should not forget in the background of this bill when we talk about the military component and the social security of our military personnel. Now what we're talking about here is that when our defense minister was here for the last time, a lot of the deputies wouldn't listen to him, but he said this phrase, and he gave us figures like this, that it would take 18 billion dollars to raise the salaries of our military personnel by at least 30 percent next year. I agree with the previous speaker that aside from the military standards that we have to compare, we have to compare the standards of our military service in social security. Therefore, as the Supreme Council, we must listen and accept to the fullest extent that our military personnel will be provided with normal social security. Well, the Voice faction will support this bill, and we support our country's NATO movement in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. And after that. Yes, I can see that, Petty Officer. And then we go to the vote. In a minute. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u224	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. It seems that we have now won a great victory. First of all, I understand what you mean. In case you don't give a god any serious conflict, none of these soldiers will fight along with our soldiers, and we'll be in real danger, don't give a god, we'll stay together. The other one. There is a parliamentary tradition -- this law has been passed for 20 years in a row and is always adopted in February, March, and sometimes even May. Why are you setting up a president who, by his signature, gives it to you right at a time when we have extreme stress on the border? Now I can only imagine what we're going to hear from the other side. Why not wait for the blackout and vote on the law in February, March, or April? This is irresponsible, and we provoke ourselves to a situation that we cannot explain and for which we are in pain and.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u225	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Valentina Alexandrovich Nastavajchenka, faction of the political party "The Fatherland". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Chairman, our supporters! The Fatherland faction strongly and directly supports, firstly, the conduct of international education every year in our country. Secondly, in order for the authorities to finally implement the provisions of the law that apply: first, the comprehensive defence of Ukraine; second, the organization of real national opposition to Russian aggression. So we make it very clear that the NATO units, the Ukrainian units have to have compatibility, trust, training and the ability to act and protect the country. And to do that, we need to have both politics and funding for our Armed Forces, the salaries of our military personnel, the social standards for our defenders. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u227	Heroim Slava! Dear colleagues, we've discussed this, we've moved on to making decisions, we're asking you to take your jobs. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole, but I'll put it in turn. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I propose to vote on the basis of the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the armed forces of other States to Ukraine in 2022 for participation in multinational training (registration number 6359). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:55:45.]] For 310 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt, in general, the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other States to Ukraine in 2022 for participation in multinational training (project registration number 6359). Please vote. [[13:56:25]] For 318 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Thank you, Your Honor. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if you have any comments, come up early, say, please, that we can work this out. Please, let's keep going. The next question is Bill 4412. This is about amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the field of migration. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:57:12]] For 254 Decision taken. I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Bogdan Evgenovich Drapítý. Please, Bogdan Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u228	Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Your Honorable People's Deputies! Your view is on the proposal for a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the field of migration (registration number 4412) (submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine). In recent months, one of the key global problems in the order of Europe's daily co-operation and Ukraine is the migration crisis caused by the Belarusian authorities for actively promoting the Russian Federation. The protection of the state border, migration policy, and Ukraine’s internal security must meet the challenges of time and circumstances. The proposed bill is aimed at improving the management of migration processes, improving legislation on the residence of foreigners and stateless persons in Ukraine, increasing the level of responsibility for both foreigners and the host party for violating legislation on the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons. To this end, the bill proposes amendments to the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship to improve the definition of "acceptance party", i.e. persons who have been invited to or accepted in Ukraine by foreigners and stateless persons, rules regarding the extension of the period of stay of foreigners in Ukraine. In particular, it is proposed to approve a comprehensive list of documents to be submitted by a foreigner and the receiving party to the application, as well as a comprehensive list of reasons for refusing a foreigner to stay in Ukraine for an extended period of time, as well as the introduction of a generally accepted world practice for establishing persons transferred under international readmission agreements for banning further entry into Ukraine. In addition, the changes to the Ukrainian State Border Service Act empower the officials of the Ukrainian State Border Service to establish a transit period for foreigners and stateless persons through Ukraine. In summary, the implementation of the draft Law will have a positive impact on the security of the State and bring Ukrainian legislation closer to international standards. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u229	Thank you. Take your place, please. I invite the head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations of Dmitri Valeriovich Lubinz to report. Please, Dmitri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u230	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation, Reintegration of Temporaryly Inoccupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting on 27 January this year reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Improving Migration Legislation (Registration No. 4412). Dear colleagues, our committee concluded that this legislative initiative should be supported. We understand that these norms, according to the explanatory note of the bill, improve the rules on the residence of foreigners and stateless persons in our country, increase the responsibility of foreigners and their host party for violating the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons, simplify the procedure for the extension of the stay of foreigners in Ukraine for the exchange of certificates for temporary residence in Ukraine. We understand that we have an observation from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. But these remarks, according to distinguished national deputies, can be taken into account in preparing for the second reading. Also, according to the project's developer, the State Migration Service and the Ministry of the Interior, part of these observations by the General Scientific and Scientific Administration will be regulated at the level of the legal regulations. In particular, with regard to the identification of the officials of which body, the State border protection authority or the central executive authority, is responsible for ensuring the implementation of State policy in the field of migration. That's why we vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? There's a need. Then please sign in: two for, two for, please. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Gerus Andry Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u232	Please pass the word to Maxim Tkachenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u233	Maxim Tkachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u234	My colleagues, thank you for your word. I would like to add to the words of support for this bill, which has just been echoed from the rostrum by our committee head, from Mr. Lubintz, that this bill has been in Parliament for more than a year and really needs to be accepted and supported. And I also want to point out that now that we have it, I feel exactly what we're voting for is another bill coming in connection, which is also very important, is 4411. They are two bills that were planned and submitted to the Council together. So I would like to support this bill, and the next bill as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u235	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, we are very sorry that this bill does not represent the Minister of Internal Affairs. Because we have a lot of questions to ask the minister. And you know, if it wasn't for certain events, this bill could represent Mr. Goghilashvili as deputy minister. We agree with the Presidium that Goghilashvili has become almost abusive, but there is no need for opposition when it tells us that half of Parliament uses Gogilashvili to turn off microphones. Now, about this bill, it's obvious that migration policy requires the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the authorities as a whole very serious border care. And we have a lot of questions for the minister and his ministry. By the way, interestingly, the deputy also came here with a security guard, with eyelashes, with sirens, with six G.U.U.S. scouts and the U.S. Embassy's "cubics," as your comrade Goghilashvili drove, did you get to Parliament yourself? But we have a lot of questions to ask the Ministry of Internal Affairs about the border. Today, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has asked for 17 billion dollars in the budget for the following year to be allocated for the protection of borders. This money among the "great theft," first of all, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, and second of all, we don't have any parliamentary control over how these funds can be used. Further, we received very disturbing signals from the border OTGs, to which the Migration Service and the Border Service have already addressed letters requesting the transfer of certain land or technical commitments and financial arrangements for the Ukrainian border. We want to hear a very clear strategy of power to protect Ukrainian borders. Of course, when Goghilashvili is responsible, including those present in this room, including Goghilashvili, who are talking to his colleagues, we will find the possibility of every Hogilashvili, to give his name, including to the equal voters, to let them know who.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u237	The word is given to the national deputy of Tzabal Volodymyr Vladimir Vladimirovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u238	Please pass Sussun to Inni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u239	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u240	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, it's very good that we're looking at migration, because it's actually matured for many reasons. I want to remind you of one of the contexts that is very important to Ukraine right now. This is a question of how the citizens of Belarus feel here in Ukraine who are fleeing the criminal regime of Lukashenko. And unfortunately, the situation that Belarusian citizens are facing here shows the imperfections of current legislation on migration that we have today in Ukraine. Unfortunately, today a citizen of Belarus who has fled from the criminal regime is virtually impossible to employ here in Ukraine. If the MPs do not know this, I would like to remind you that in order to employ a foreign citizen, the employer is obliged to pay more than 60,000 dollars to such an employee. I'm afraid I know a lot of stories where people try to get jobs that don't, in principle, provide for this kind of salary. And unfortunately, we're creating additional special employment conditions for individual population categories. But for example, doctors who have fled Belarus, who are now lacking in Ukrainian hospitals, are totally unable to work here in Ukraine. So let's talk about migration in a complex and systematic way. Proposals to increase responsibility for violations of the migration regime are, of course, entitled to exist. But we should not forget that we have citizens who need support -- citizens of other countries, citizens who are not willing here. And I would very much like Parliament to remember these citizens, first of all, the citizens of Belarus, because this is, in the end, a demonstration of our position as the leader of democratic processes in the region. I would very much like the bill to be properly developed for the second reading to take into account the interests of citizens here, including the development of the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u241	The word is given to the national deputy of Tchaikovsky Ivan Adamovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u242	Please pass the word to Dmitri Lubinci.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u243	Please, Dmitri Lubinets.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, our parliamentary group Party for the Future will vote in favour of this bill. And we think that when we all see what's going on in our borders with our country, when one of the neighbouring countries, namely Belarus, is using migrants to make sure that the situation is not only with Poland, but with our country, we have to vote for it. Indeed, I would like to support the words of my colleague Maxim Mikolaiovich Tkachenka, who made it very clear that we are considering two related bills today: 4412 and 4411. It is 4411 that are amendments to codes that additionally impose responsibility for violations of migration legislation. This should be done, honourable national deputies, by giving additional authority to the State Migration Service to respond to such challenges. We need the Ministry of Internal Affairs to do that, and we can see that they're doing that. And it was absolutely right, and it was a very well-coordinated job, and the minister and his team were going to the border, watching what was going on, and we, as national deputies, immediately voted and allocated the funds. These are all elements of our struggle and response to such migration challenges. Therefore, honourable national MPs, we urge Parliament to vote. There is definitely no controversy here, and our national MPs, our factions, the MPs who think of the state, should vote in favour today. We call for a vote in favour, honourable national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u245	The word is given to the national deputy Eutuska. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. Let's lower the level of communication in the Supreme Council a little bit. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will do this for the first time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please give the floor to the national deputy Eutuska, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please let us calm down, take our seats, and continue our consideration of this bill. Dear colleagues, I've asked everyone to calm down, take their seats. The word is Eutuska. Sergei Mikolaiovich, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u246	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth noting that this bill is called upon to increase the level of responsibility both for foreigners and for the receiving party. But I'd like to talk to you about some of the ingredients in this bill. First, before the second reading we need to correct the rule, to my conviction that persons who are restricted to entry into Ukraine will be able to travel through the territory of our country in transit in a 5-day period. Five days is too much for transit history. And the second. Of course, it is necessary to resolve matters in a complex way. Not only do we have to comply with international legislation and see what's going on in our borders, but we have to allocate money to the fortification of different buildings and give the possibility and the State Border Service to fight the migrants. The Fatherland faction votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u247	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, and then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Your main job in the hall is to pass quality laws, and we'll take care of everything else. Take your seats, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Nestor Ivanovich, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What can I say? At last we lived to see Peter Alekseiovich making "ministers of the people." So who's the judge?Oh, my God! And as far as the law is concerned, I would like to say, Your Honor, that this bill could certainly be supported, but is the issue of migration now the main issue? Let us think about those who are our displaced ones, and let us help them. And I have the impression that you're already flowing from Belarus. So I ask you to postpone this law as one that is now not of paramount importance, but to think about those people who are Ukrainians who live in Ukraine and need the support of our power while it still is, because I see that it will soon be gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u249	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, there is a proposal close to a constructive one. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to take your seats. We're moving on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, three minutes, please don't break up. I'll have National Deputy Kowalczuk, National Deputy Heratschenko come here, over. I just asked the two of you. I don't have to go to everybody. Alexander, just a second. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we've completed our psychotherapy session. So, dear colleagues, please take your seats, we're moving on to making a decision. Irina Volodymyrna, we're moving on to a decision, please. You scream very loud, I can't compete with you. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving migration legislation (project registration number 4412). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ready? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:20:30.]] For-300 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, congratulations. The next bill 4411 is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Improvement of Migration Legislation (project registration number 4411). I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:21:07]] For 255 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to Drapti Bogdan Evgenovich, deputy minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u250	Honorary Presidium, honourable national MPs, is proposed for your consideration by the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in Improving Migration Legislation (imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine) (Registration No. 4411). The bill deals with the newly adopted draft Law under registration number 4412 and aims to improve administrative responsibility for offences in this area by both foreigners and Ukrainian citizens. The bill proposes updating the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which establishes responsibility for violations of migration legislation. Because today's articles from 203 to 206 KUPAP in the 2001-2003 edition contain outdated positions and references to standards that have become obsolete. They are then very difficult to qualify on the legal plane, allowing violators of migration legislation to avoid administrative responsibility. The bill proposes to introduce new articles of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which distinguish liability from social damage to various types of offences. To date, an administrative fine of between 340 and 680 dollars has been imposed to assist foreigners in evading their departure from Ukraine. Thus, the person who invited or accepted a foreigner and failed to ensure his timely departure from Ukraine or who did not notify the State Migration Service that he had lost his reasons for being a foreigner would be easier to pay such a fine than to follow a legal procedure. People working in the State Migration Service are now carrying out a large number of tasks in response to illegal migration. In particular, the detection, detention, and delivery of illegal migrants are often subject to malicious disobedience, refusal to comply with legal requirements. The bill regulates the issue of establishing responsibility for the malicious disobedience of the legal order or the requirement of a staff member of the State Migration Service during the period.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u251	Thank you. I invite the co-rapporteur, deputy head of the Committee for the Protection of Medical Affairs of Vejacheslav Anatoliyovich. Please, Vjacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u252	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Protection considered at its meeting a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Improvement of Migration Legislation (Registration No. 4411) (submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine). The purpose of the bill is to improve the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which establishes responsibility for violations of migration legislation, such as the exclusion of old statutes and references to standards that have become invalid, the strengthening of responsibility for violations of migration legislation. The basic positions of the bill. Administrative responsibility for non-compliance with the legal requirements of the National Migration Service is introduced, this is the addition of the Code by new article 185 to 14 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. Administrative fines for individual offences are increasing, and this is article 202, 203, 204, 205, of the Code of Administrative Offences. The objective side of article 203 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences is expanded and fines are differentiated, depending on the duration of the stay in Ukraine. The competence of the Ukrainian State Border Service is clarified when dealing with administrative offences and so forth. As for the position of the committee. After considering the bill, the Committee on Law Protection approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft Ukrainian Law No. 4411, to adopt draft law No. 4411 in the first reading on the basis of the Committee’s observations. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u253	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? You don't? Is it? Then write it down: two in, two in, two in. But, Arthur Volodymyrovich, thank you so much for this time. Whoever wants it, let's take a look. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u254	Please pass the word to Rostislav Pavlovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u255	Rostislav Pavlenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u256	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill deals with the responsibility of workers for the treatment of migrant workers who are employed, the obligations they accept and the like. But this is the end of the logical chain, as it were. Instead, the problem remains how migrants enter Ukraine, especially since a Russian aggressor uses migration issues as a new humanitarian weapon. The logic of the actions that the Supreme Council is to take against the hybrid threats is the setting up of the border, there is protection, there are corresponding changes to the budget first and foremost. Dear colleagues, the need for a special session of Parliament on security issues and, in particular, border security has been raised many times in this room. If a professional minister says that it takes 19 billion or 17 billion to provide the border, that is what it takes to spend money on, not on various corrupt devices. So in the first reading, we can support this bill. But "European Solidarity" points out that this room needs to be given full attention to security issues and that it needs to review the budgetary priorities on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u257	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine to Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich, faction of "Serve of the People". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u258	Please pass the word to Galina Mikhailuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u259	Please Galina Olegna Mikhailuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u260	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Indeed, the bill is qualitative and designed to improve the well - being of our citizens. As already noted, articles 203 and 206 of the Code of Administrative Offences contain references to standards that are outdated and invalid. In view of this, it is proposed to supplement articles 206 and 203 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences by directly increasing sanctions against illegal migration. I would like to point out that the bill was supported, inter alia, by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the State Border Service of Ukraine, the State Migration Service, the National Academy of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, and the National Academy of State Border Services. In fact, the bill contains some minor shortcomings, but the committee has approved a decision between the first and second readings to revise the relevant rules, particularly for the second reading, to redraft part of article 203 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which deals with responsibility for employment without proper permission. Dear colleagues, please support this bill and move towards its approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u261	Thank you. Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life" faction. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u262	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please give the floor to the noble colleague of the People's Deputy Mother of Gregory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u263	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u264	Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! For "The Opposition Platform-- For life's sake, all the bills are very good. But unfortunately, we can't support this bill and I'll explain why. The bill amends the Ukrainian Administrative Code, which states that, for committing malicious disobedience to the legal order or for requiring a staff member of the State Migration Service. So, without having the status of a law enforcement authority in the DMC, we give someone the authority of the central executive authority the authority of some kind of coercion. Legal requirements may also be violated in this regard? Infringement of legislation on the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons. Do you understand how this law can be violated? Well, violation: Carrying documents, you broke the law. And the new law enforcement agency, in the face of this central executive body, is given some kind of compulsion and will be responsible for disobedience, but it will be new. Also in this bill, it is essentially proposed to overload the title of documents that give the right to reside in Ukraine, and in the bill of profiles, the law on the legal status of foreigners and non-citizens, the law on immigration, no changes are made. We're in favour of a healthy initiative and we need to vote, make the right decisions, but another force block in the State Migration Service -- we're against it. And we ask other colleagues not to support, send this bill to work out and determine, or the police will perform their function, or pass it on to the State Migration Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u265	The word is given to the People's Deputy, Lubinec, Dmitry Valeriyovich, "The Party for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u266	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Party for the Future will vote in favour and call on everyone to vote in favour. I was already speaking from this rostrum, saying that we have two related bills. 4412 – I thank the people's deputies for voting 300 votes. 300 MPs supported the previous bill, and I think that 4411 should also support at least 300 votes. These are complex bills, they really give more authority to the State Migration Service. But, dear fellows, if we have a central executive in migration policy, a designated authority as the State Migration Service, it's automatically, absolutely logical to give them additional powers, if we understand that we're not doing well with migrants. Should we increase our responsibility for violations of migration legislation? Of course, we need to do this. And we do. Also, as I said the day before, and what we see on the border between our state and Belarus. Should we be willing to do so? Yes, they should. Should we allocate additional funds to the state border? Yes, they should, and we do. In fact, there have been times when respected national deputies from various factions have said that this is really what needs to be done. But they did not vote in favour of the previous bill. I'm not going to call the faction name, I'm going to approach, I'm going to communicate, and this faction is holding on to 4412. But if you support in general that we need to respond to such challenges, I ask all factions to vote in favour. Moreover, everything seems perfectly logical, correct, and we defend our national interests, our borders and our citizens of Ukraine or citizens who have come to our country in a perfectly legitimate way. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u267	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Zimbaluku. And then we go to the vote. Please, Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u268	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Presidium, Honorable Colleagues! The previous bill, supported by Fatherland in the first reading, gave us additional powers to the State Migration Service. The bill proposes to amend the current Code on Administrative Offences regarding an additional article on "Evil Disobedience or Failure of a National Migration Service Officer". It's too risky, but at present, in the conditions that Europe has faced, including Ukraine, it may be justified. But, dear fellows, the second reading needs to be done anyway so that we don't violate the so-called conditions of legal nihilism. Fatherland supports the first reading. We're going to apply for the second one. But the question is in the work of the State Migration Service itself. There are really big problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u269	Please, more Shahov. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u270	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Of course, we will support this bill, which was drafted by the Committee of Tuckchenka, Lubintz and other national deputies. I would also like to point out that in the Luhansk region, there are many borders that are still open, and there are spies to be found. But from Milov to Dibrow there is a road where blocks are set up and cannot pass by the Ukrainians on the road, and today they suffer from what they have to go through, travel 50 miles [50 km] to the fields, and suffer from spending, spending time, and so on, riding the cowboys. Note this, and we need to clear this road from Milov to Dibrowa and resolve this issue for Ukrainian citizens. And the borders must certainly be defended. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u271	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. People's deputies please take their seats. I am voting on a proposal by the committee to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences for Improving Migration Legislation (project registration number 4411). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:36:52]] For 297 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill, we have 5465, is a draft law amending the Education Act of Ukraine to improve the scientific and methodological provision of education and the quality of educational literature (second reading) (project registration number 5465). Sergey Vitaliovich Babak. Dear colleagues, is there anyone who will insist? I understand there's someone, isn't there? No one insists, I thank you very much for your understanding and compromise. Therefore, dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal amendments, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Education Act on improving the scientific and technical provision of education and the quality of teaching literature (project registration number 5465). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:38:14]] For 327 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, please, the Gethmans, from the procedure. There is an offer that he said he agreed with everyone. Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u272	My fellow Members, I am very grateful to all the factions in Parliament for agreeing to change the agenda for the day and to vote on Bill 5065. This is a very cool country that needs to be reformed that we accept according to the "slip" and we regulate the operations of financial companies and financial services. It's a second reading, and as far as I know, the revisions won't go up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u273	He's waving at Vlasenko that he's going to make adjustments. Danilo Alexandrovich. Dear colleagues! Danilo Alexandrovich, there's no potential in the hall. Thank you. Dear colleagues, then we go the way we go. Now it's Bill 6347. 6347 is a bill amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act "Recovering the Payability of State Industrial Enterprises" to extend the moratorium on execution, enforcement and bankruptcy of state-owned industrial enterprises (registration number 6347). Dear colleagues, first we must vote ad hoc on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session. I need 226 votes. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:40:13]] For 317 Decision taken. Next vote. I'm asking you to consider this with a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:40:36]] For 280 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Energy and Housing Committee, Andrey Mikhailovich Gerus, to speak. Please, Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u274	The honourable chairman, honourable national MPs, has proposed a bill that changes only one norm to your attention. To date, the moratorium on the bankruptcy of state coal companies, government mines, is in operation on January 1, 2022. The bill proposes to extend the moratorium for another two years, until 2024. This will allow us to guarantee the stable and unbreakable work of government coal companies and to guarantee jobs for our Ukrainian miners. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the committee's decision recommends that this bill be adopted as a basis and as a whole. And I would be very grateful to all the factions who would support such an offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u275	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up: two for, two for, please. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikhail Leontajovich Bondaru, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u276	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. The bill voted on all factions in the eighth vocation, allowing public carbon companies to continue to function and work. In fact, we're just prolonging this bill for two more years. So I'm going to ask them to support all the factions and allow state-owned carbon-carbon companies to function and work. I would also like to thank all the people's deputies who have gathered 157 signatures today for an emergency session that can take place either tomorrow or Thursday to settle the issue of debt to miners, mining teams. Bill 5891-1, which will be submitted to the next session. And it will be proposed by this bill to settle debt issues by the end of this year. Speaking to the Prime Minister. He promised that with overcoming the problem would be solved, the budget would be overrun. To the extent that the government reports that the budget is overrun, so when we vote in favour of Law 5891-1, we settle the mining issue of debt. Thank you. And this bill please support everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u277	The word is given to the Ukrainian national MP Konstankevitch Irina Miroslavovni, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u278	I'm asking you to pass the word to Mrs. Annie Speedhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u279	Please, Ana Constantine's Speedboat.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u280	Dear colleagues, the MP's Party for the Future will definitely support this bill. But let's face it, it doesn't solve the problem of government mines. He does not decide that Ukraine today is dependent on imported coal. At the same time, our miners are maiming and underpaid for months. We have to collect signatures to vote on salary payments. At the same time, we do not solve the problem of the coal sector at all. That's what we need to do. Dear colleagues, let's support this initiative. And in the future, let's solve the issue so that Ukraine doesn't depend on coal imports. So our businesses can buy coal from a Ukrainian manufacturer. And so you and I don't get into an energy crisis any more. The parliamentary group "For the Future" will definitely support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u281	The word is given to the national deputy of Osadchuk Andri Petrovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u282	Please, Annie Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u283	Another Sousun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u284	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank you for the newly adopted bill on improving the quality of textbooks. I myself and the Voice team and the Education and Science Committee have been working on this bill for a year and a half, but they've finally adopted a bill that will actually improve the quality of our children's education. This is important because this is an investment in the future. I'd like all the bills we're adopting in this room to be an investment in the future. But we can't invest in the future if we're closing our eyes on reality. I understand the problems of miners. I understand that people who work should receive a salary. But when we're talking about bankruptcy moratoriums, we're talking about, let's close our eyes on the truth, let's pretend that there's no problem in businesses, let's continue to feed non-profit enterprises from the state budget instead of investing in the future, instead of investing in energy efficiency, instead of eventually investing in green technologies here in Ukraine, instead of investing in a fair transformation of coal regions. For the following year, only 118 million dollars have been set up in the budget to make arrangements for the transformation of coal regions. We set aside a problem that will inevitably catch up with us. It's all like we live in debt to our children. We leave them with problems that we fear to solve today. I would very much like the deputies to be more responsible for our future. Instead of putting out fires, instead of closing our eyes on the truth, let's face it, we need to move in the direction of the European Green Course and start doing something in that direction. That's why the Voice party won't vote in favour of this bill. But hopefully we will eventually find money to ensure a fair transformation of coal and coal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u285	Thank you. Please, Murmich Anatoly Petrovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". After that, Kamelchuk and after that. I see. Please, first, Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u286	Please give the floor to Deputy Volodymyr Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u287	Vladimir Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u288	Moroz Volodymyr, Donetsk, 59 constituency, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Of course, me and our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" will vote in favour of this bill. But if we don't invest in our mines, if we don't charge them and we don't charge the lava, as it is today, we have 37 government mines today that produce an average of 200 tons. And if you charge, for example, the Mountain mine, which is now on the line of delimitation, or mine in my district, they can get in a month as much as one boat from America does today. So we just have to pay attention to our mines, see how the miners live today, how they live in monogeneous, how they provide the budget of our cities, don't have to invent a bicycle today, just take and start funding our mines, coal will be in order cheaper, we will have jobs, miners will get paid on time, and then we can be energy efficient, energy independent, and we can be players in the energy field, we will be looking at the whole world and saying, "Yes, our Ukraine is rich, the miners are extracting our country."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u289	Thank you. Next, please, Kamelchuk, Wolitz and Bakunec, right? Then comelchuk first.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u290	Yury Kamelchuk, mining region, red city This is now about 33 businesses and 34,000 jobs. Of course, we think about the future and how to replace alternative technologies for electricity in the future. But now we have to think about these people and specifically these businesses that this winter period, I'm sure the next one, we really need them. These companies were in a difficult financial position because they were constantly underfunded. So I'm going to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Energy and the Deputy Minister of Energy: let's just think about how to fund the lava that can still be launched and close all the debt that remains by the end of this year. I'm also reminding you of the Hope mine and 36 million debts in the past 2020. Let's support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u291	Please, National Deputy Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich, then Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, and then we move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u292	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Of course, the faction will support this bill, although we need to understand that we are not making a good choice today, and we are making a choice between bad and very bad. Because first of all, we're pushing aside and covering up the huge uncertainty problem that the state is going to do with the mines, the mining towns that are actually suffering from this situation today. But what I'm saying is that this is the result of the absolute futility of the power team and the government regarding the reform of the energy market with regard to the creation of artificial debt in the energy market. Your first law was the Russian-Belarus Energy Import Act, and now you're saving miners. The National Commission will do anything to get the middlemen to wash the money in this market, and now we're saving the miners with you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u293	National Deputy Bakunets, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u294	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Lvivščina, MP group "Trust". Clearly, our group of majors supports this bill. Our colleague, Shahov, and other colleagues from Lviv, have talked about this on several occasions to ensure that our miners have a decent and decent salary. And we definitely need to take care of our military in the east today, as well as those who are fighting this invisible enemy -- the pandemic, our doctors, our medics, in order to raise their promised salary even further. Especially those who are conducting vaccinations for you and the whole country. Especially those who visit you in ambulances, emergency medical care. All of them need to be supported, encouraged in every way, so that they do not leave our country, but work here and fight the pandemic for the sake of your individual and your family’s health.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-12-14-m0.u295	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion, we are moving on to making a decision. People's deputies please take their seats. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal to accept as a whole, but we agreed that first on the basis, then, if there's potential, in general. I therefore propose that the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on Restoration of Payments of State Industrial Enterprises should be adopted on the basis of a vote on the extension of the moratorium on enforcement, enforcement and bankruptcy of state-owned enterprises (project registration number 6347). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[2:54:05]] For 312 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, then, with your permission, I propose to accept, as a whole, the necessary technical and legal amendments, the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on Restoration of Payments of State-owned Industrial Enterprises to extend the moratorium on enforcement, enforcement and bankruptcy of State-owned industrial enterprises (registration number 6347). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:54:52]] For 317 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, we still have the 5065 proposal that the Gethmans spoke about, we can vote without discussion, without discussion. Dear colleagues, then I make the proposal, the next proposal, to accept the second reading and, in general, the necessary technical legal amendments, the draft Law on Financial Services and Financial Companies (project registration number 5065). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:55:43]] For 248 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, one second. Dear colleagues, we still have a block of medical laws, but we won't be able to get into them. There is such a proposal, I don't know, let's talk, I have such information that the Law of 5694 amending the laws of Ukraine on improving the functioning of the Single State Register of War Veterans and introducing an electronic certificate of veteran (second reading) to vote now. Is there no objection? None. Now, one second, that's 5694. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a proposal, one second, a proposal to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical legal amendments, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the functioning of the Single State Register of Veterans of War and to introduce an electronic certificate for veterans (draft No. 5694). Dear colleagues, please vote. [[14:57:23]] For 310 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Thank you all for the design.
