ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, media officials! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. As always, I remind you, registration takes place by clicking on the "for" button, the first one on the left-hand side or the green one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, it's like who's gonna understand. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:05:23]] There are 204 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputy Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovitch. Hello! I want success, health, strength! [[Applause]] In accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, and messages. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Zabrodsky? Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u2	Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! The trust of fellow citizens, who in open and fair elections give the leadership of the state a high degree of authority and authority, is an extremely expensive thing. The status of a government official from a government team is no less costly. But only if the authorities rely on national trust, which does not give the slightest reason to doubt the rightness of their actions. Trust is easily destroyed by betrayal. What Is Betrayal? It can be fictional and artificial, it can be real. The main difference between them is that for real betrayal at a higher level of government, people’s lives and national interests have to be paid for. During war, such treachery is especially costly. Especially if it is a betrayal of the first officials of the state. That's exactly the kind of betrayal seen in the actual collapse of the containment operation. Without a small year, the country is living in expectation of the truth. Has little been written, spoken, and spoken during this time? Personally, as a citizen and an officer of the Armed Forces from the beginning of the year, there's only one question that concerns me: do we, a nation with more than a quarter of a year's history, have to wait to investigate journalists with a world name and not be able to figure out for ourselves what happened? Instead, we wait anxiously for the soon - to - be - announced premiere of the film. I sincerely hope not. So in the matter of Wagnerians, the country needs to know the truth first of all from its representatives in Parliament. Who made the decision to break down the Russian assassins' detention operation? Who gave them to Lukashenko and eventually to Putin? Who allowed them to continue to earn blood in Ukraine or elsewhere? Finally, who destroyed the trust of our partners for a long time? We need to hear the truth officially. We are the families of those who died in the east. We are soldiers who have lost their brothers who have been killed by such or similar "workers." We are all Ukrainians who are still targeted in this war. We demand that the officials respond to the interim commission of inquiry and because the President recently acknowledged the fact that all the answers were being carried out by the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u3	Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, it has been a holiday and a time to return to the urgent issues and to the urgent problems that we have now accumulated very much, and especially in the security and defence sectors. And first of all, we need to start a temporary commission of inquiry, which, according to the promise of the "ministers of the people," is to investigate the collapse of the "vagners" special operation. And not just run it, but make sure that all the opposition factions in this Parliament are involved. And to vote on the changes to this decision, and to stress that the first question is the question of Wagnerians. Recently, in an interview with the President, he personally opposed the predetermined position that the operation was. At the same time, it was said that it was not Ukraine’s special operation and that its implementation would have consequences for us in matters of national security. He also stated that he had spoken to President Belarus Lukashenko. After these reasonings, however, the resonance around the matter did not begin to grow, but it did. This is the tactic of the President's Office officials who planned and implemented. I'm sorry. This line runs counter to the version that planned and implemented this in the interests of Ukraine and with international partners. What do we now look like in the eyes of our allies? Needing clear answers to clear questions, society requires telling the truth. The spies must be sure that they will not be betrayed. Partners need to be sure that we are a reliable ally. So we expect maximum interaction from the authorities. The second major issue that needs to be addressed is the management of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence. In our view, the release of the Minister of Defense will be the best estimate of the results of his activities. It is possible to list the failures in his work and the scandals that the Ministry regularly encounters for a long time, but the inability to provide our army with the necessary weapons and equipment during the war, the lack of strategic vision of the development of the army, the failure in planning is simply unacceptable in terms of war. And whatever you're told about the effectiveness of using more than 90 percent of POPs, don't believe it, it's just numbers. We need to work, not on the indicators, but on the results, and as a result, we have a broken supply on almost all parameters in 2020, and we're getting the same results in 2021. Ukraine cannot fight contracts, the army has to fight with powerful modern weapons, and with this in the Ministry of Defense is a problem. So I urge the authorities to open their eyes and make immediate decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u5	Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich. Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs! Yesterday our country celebrated the Day of the Constitution, and many fine words were said that we have a good and socially oriented Constitution. And that's true because our Constitution has respect throughout the world. But it's a completely different reality. Where is this social orientation when public tariffs rise every month in the country and most Ukrainian citizens are below the poverty line? Where the so - called medical reform continues, which actually eliminates free medicine, as stated in the Constitution. When citizens' rights are violated by decisions of the so-called National Security Council, which has long since become a "secret office" and imposes sanctions on Ukrainian citizens against legislation and closes opposition channels. When half a million of our citizens from the cities of Donetsk and Lugansk were deprived of the right to vote in favour of the local authority by one decision of the Central Electoral Commission, while the guarantor of the Constitution, the acting President, was silent, and in fact he organized this disgraceful phenomenon — the denial of our people's constitutional right to vote. The previous authorities created a political know-how when it became possible not to implement the Constitutional Court's decision. Today's authorities "successfully" (in paws) have taken this into their arms, and I'm referring to the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2018 that payments should be made to the Chernobyl disaster liquidators. Today’s authorities are failing to carry out, and this is the criminal offense of today’s officials who have gone to a direct violation of the Constitution. And this sad list can go on. The position of our political force "The Opposition Platform for Life" is absolutely clear: any authority has to make inconclusive decisions and adhere to the issues of the Constitution, the protection of people. Another breeds chaos and uncertainty. And if the current authority doesn't do this, it has to be re-elected, and the sooner it becomes, the better it will be for the country, the sooner the order, stability and order in the state will be stated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u7	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u8	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! I want to take another look at what I said on the Conciliation Council today, and now in this Supreme Council Hall, I want to raise this question one more time. Our President of Ukraine has repeatedly given orders and stated that it is necessary to do audits and tariffs, and apartment buildings, and HKG, and everything that is possible. And the President's list of these statements I can raise and give, so I have a print here, how many times he's given these orders, he's sounded. Nothing has really happened, nothing has changed in this year. Moreover, we see that the subject of electricity tariffs, gas, heating is silenced both in the Supreme Council Hall and in the government, and it's happening as if nothing changes, as if everything is peaceful and the country is successfully coping with this problem, and the population is paying off, and everything is not bad. What really happened? In fact, we have almost 100 billion people's debts on heating tariffs, on utility charges. We've written down 55.5 billion dollars this month just from thermal utility companies all over the country. And what's more, we've done an analysis, our parliamentary group of political parties for the future, of what's happened in European countries with gas tariffs in the last year. So I want to show you this table across the country. 33 European countries: Ukraine's only country that has raised tariffs and nearly doubled tariffs on gas in Europe. All the other countries, as you can see, are downsides, and even our closest partners, who are constantly advising us, help us, as Lithuania, by almost 30 percent reduced the tariffs on gas inside the country. What does this talk about? Which, unlike what the President has to do and what he says about auditing the activities of state-owned enterprises, housing and utilities and so on, no one really does anything. Naftogaz Ukraine, all state-owned enterprises, scrapping and so forth essentially taxed every person in the country with extra taxes. Dozens of billions of dollars come out of these companies as taxes, tens of billions of dollars go out to offshore companies that supply gas unknown from where and, in fact, mediocre, and make billions of dollars left in offshore countries. I've talked about this a number of times. If our country, if the government really wanted to review the tariffs, here's a table showing what was actually happening to gas from Europe: across Europe, the cost of gas was going down -- we had an increase. Moreover, we expect from August 1st to raise electricity tariffs. What the government is planning is to raise tariffs and level tariffs for the population to an industrial level. This is another blow to our households. Moreover, cities have already begun to raise heating tariffs for the next season. We urge you to stop this process and listen to the energy minister on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u9	The word is given to the national deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, the MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u10	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, yesterday we celebrated the Day of the Constitution. Constitutional rights are violated every day by both Parliament and all officials, and Kabmin. Please tell me, first of all, the Trust Group did stand still and press Kabmin's stop-screen to raise electricity tariffs. But they're mad again, and they want to raise prices both for gas and for electricity. Who will be responsible in the state for the fact that, statistics say, 86 percent of the people in the country today are outside the poverty line? Who will pay these tariffs, 80 billion dollars of municipal debt? We demand an immediate moratorium on rising gas and electricity tariffs, water and all energy resources. The other one. Please tell me, does the Constitution of Ukraine exist for an official or not? Why did they take two heads, the heads of the military-civil administration, the constitutional right of the people in the Lugansk and Donetsk areas, into a million people, two took the right to vote? We registered the election decree. The Great Seven turned to the CBC. The CEC has already asked Parliament to hold elections in the Lugansk and Donetsk areas. In Lysicánsk and Severodonetsk, where two heads of civil administration are robbed, 465 million dollars, 267 million dollars stolen, who will answer? Thirdly, your honor, on July 1, we voted in favour of the interim commission of inquiry. This is the first time that the risk (319 deputies have been put to death is the majority constitutional) about the immediate removal of the Governor of the Luhansk Military and Civil Administration of Hayday, the immediate appeal to the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and all anti-corruption bodies. Sixteen people were killed, this was proved by the interim commission of inquiry, 800 houses were burned down, and people are poor. One man hanged himself in the city because there was nothing to pay and build a house. Please tell me who will be responsible for this, who will be responsible? And the governor still works in his chair. What a nipple she's sown! When they're taken from there, will you please tell me? And it's about COVID again today. Only 3 percent of people from all over the country were vaccinated. We are in fifth place in the world after death, 18th place after vaccination. Please tell me, why is the Parliament of Pfizer officials being vaccinated today, and the people who are old enough to come to me today, who are afraid to go out on the streets, who will be responsible for the fact that today the country is on a lower level and is flying into the gap after this vaccination? Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u11	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u12	Thank you, Mr. Head. The government celebrated the Day of the Ukrainian Constitution paphosically yesterday, but one thing is to film beautiful and beautiful ossexes, and the other on the right is to implement and implement the Constitution daily. The only advantage of yesterday’s celebration was that the authorities did not work and could not act unconstitutionally and adopt unconstitutional laws. In particular, article 5 of the Ukrainian Constitution speaks of the people as the only source of sovereignty and authority, and the people exercise their authority directly and through representative bodies. But once again, they passed the People's Council Act, the Referendum Act, which is impossible to implement for ordinary Ukrainian citizens. So they registered a fake group of 60 people in Dnipropetrovska with the help of a local ODA. It's been two months, they haven't collected any signatures. Instead, the CEC refused 11,000 people who came and gathered to hold a referendum and prove to the Ukrainian authorities what is so obvious that 70 percent of Ukrainian citizens are against what is being introduced today as a market for land. By the way, the Law on the So-called Earth Market does not correspond to the Ukrainian Constitution. Articles 13, 14 of the Ukrainian Constitution state that the Ukrainian people are the sole owner of the Ukrainian land. The Ukrainian people. Not banks for foreign participation, as stipulated in your law, which you have approved, but the Ukrainian people. Instead, the law was passed in such an order, and the people were not allowed to comment on the matter. "Paternality" will continue its work on the referendum, we will hold this referendum, and we will prove to the acting Ukrainian authorities what is so obvious. People against such a market for land. This land market has nothing to do with the real market for Ukrainian farmers to help create new jobs. Instead, only large agricultural holdings and foreign - share banks can accumulate huge amounts of Ukrainian land. By the way, the Law 3711, which violates the 1st article of the Ukrainian Constitution, says that Ukraine is a sovereign state. We hand over the right to control the judicial branch of power to foreigners -- it's a violation of Ukrainian sovereignty. I want to remind the Ukrainian authorities that was already in Ukraine, when the power was completely in one hand, the whole power: and the majority in Parliament, and the Kabmin, and the President. It was a period when Victor Janukovic and the Party of Regions were in power in 2010-2014. But I want to say again, guys, think about Yanukovich's fate. In fact, he also thought that he held God’s beard and could do anything with the Constitution. The Fatherland will protect the Constitution, protect the rights of citizens and do everything to ensure that the Constitution doesn't get dirty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u13	Thank you. Showtime is over, let's get to work. Let's go back to Bill 3711-d. The chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich, is invited to the rostrum. Please. Edit number 14, Puziychuk. Don't insist. I insist you turn on the Puzichuku microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u14	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! What we're looking at right now is absolutely no reform -- it's an attempt to correct the reform that the majority has undertaken. It's, you know, an example of the "quality" of majority work, just the "quality" is in quotes. On October 16, 2019, the Supreme Council passed the Presidential Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of judicial authorities. This law created conditions for two things: the destruction of the Supreme Court and the destruction of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges. From 200 to 100 judges of the Supreme Court were reduced, the authority of the Supreme Court was slashed, and normal judicial institutions were replaced by a pseudo - organ, the Commission on Goodness and Ethics. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u15	I'm betting on the vote number 14. Please identify and vote. [[10:27:49]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 16 axles. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u16	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dmitri Alexanderovich, we were trying to hear the head of the committee at the last planning session, but only our colleague, who is now at the rostrum, can hear the head of the committee. Perhaps the chairman of the committee will explain to us the positive aspects of the bill. Once again, respectable citizens, for the second time, the majority are trying to destroy the judicial system. Please remember October 19th, when you reduced the number of judges from 200 to 100. Even the Head of the Supreme Court has not been given the opportunity to speak from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Today, rain is happening, that is, there are similar procedures, when there is no answer to the question, there is no argument about a bill of majority. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u17	I'm betting on the vote number 16. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:29:23]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Next line is 17, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u18	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, the Constitutional Court has declared your reform unconstitutional, and now you're trying to correct your next victory. Dmitri Aleksandrovich, one of the reasons for repealing the Supreme Council’s law, is the adoption of it in violation of the Supreme Council’s Rules. Today, there is a violation of the Supreme Council Rules, you limit the right to speak, I have to stand up for the head of the committee. Dear colleagues, let us consider properly, professionally, the bills that will really lead to the proper judicial reform that Ukrainian citizens expect. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u19	This is the 16th amendment. I'll bet you a vote. 17th. I'm betting on the 17th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:31:01]] Z-71 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u20	Nineteen lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u21	Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Honorable colleagues, respected Ukrainians, real and effective judicial reform, the rule of law, fair justice -- that's what Ukrainian society expects and expects. Tell me, two plenary weeks from now, the second year of your greatness ends, you talk about it all the time, but what did you do? Is this bill that we are considering a real judicial reform? No, it's not. Both MPs and Ukrainian citizens understand that what declares the majority does not actually correspond to reality. There's no language for today. He is not in conformity with the Constitution, and this is acknowledged by the Constitutional Court. This law and the bill that we are considering today violates the Constitution. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u22	I'm betting on the 19th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:32:31]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 20. Puziczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u23	Thank you. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Ruslan Alexiyovich, and I'm addressing you. Please tell me why you are not giving the opportunity to speak, to explain the position of the committee to the committee head? Because this bill, it certainly doesn't fit the Constitutional Court's decision on the same law that you passed. This law does not meet the requirements of the Venice Commission. Look, it's not a law about fair and fair judgment. You know what that's about? You're trying as a majority to extend the law on the possibility of control over the selection of judges and the unhindered control of the entire judicial system -- that's what this bill is about. Colleagues, we can't support such demands of power with you. This is certainly not what the Ukrainian people have delegated to this Parliament for. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u24	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 20 of the Puzichuk People's Deputies. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[10:34:02]] For-72 The decision is not taken. 21 lashes, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Head. Unfortunately, it should be noted that the draft law does not correspond either to the Ukrainian Constitution or to the conclusions of the Venice Commission that no one would tell you. In fact, with regard to this bill, the President of the Venice Commission, Gianni Bukikkio, made it quite clear, I quote: "Unfortunately, Law 3711-d is not in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. We don't support him." And what's now being handed out to the people's deputies by papers that say that there's only three adjustments to support it and everything's going to be fine, that's absolutely false, manipulation, I'd say, a lie. This bill gives additional powers to the Supreme Council of Justice. In particular, it is possible for the Supreme Council of Justice to determine the number of judges in the courts rather than in the courts. This is completely contradicted by, among other things, 52 points of the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and then I ask you not to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u26	I'll bet 21 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[10:35:35]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 22 Orders, Germany. Don't insist. 23rd, Dubinsky. Don't insist. Sobolev, 24 revisions. Cymbaluk, 24 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u27	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. We're for judicial reform, but is that it? It's very bad that in these days the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the Ukrainian Constitution, the majority went this way, considering this bill. By our permission with Sergey Soboljev, we suggest that the number of judges other than the Supreme Court of Ukraine shall be determined by the State Court Administration in agreement with the Supreme Council of Justice, taking into account the judicial workload and within the expenditure determined by the Treasury of Ukraine in relation to the budget. Dear colleagues, once again on judicial reform. Today it is the approval of this. Whether this bill is the result of an upheaval when, in the 19th year, the Supreme Court of Ukraine was virtually eliminated in the same way. Today we reap.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u28	I'll bet you 24 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:37:18]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Frolow. Don't insist. Puzichuk, 27th right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u29	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. I'll take it from here to the head of the committee. Please explain why you are opposed to maintaining a valid order for determining the number of judges in court by the State Court Administration in agreement with the Supreme Council of Justice? It is the National Court of Justice that ensures the proper functioning of the courts, examines the practice of organizing the activities of the courts, and examines the needs of the staff. The organizational issues of the judicial system are referred to the powers of the State Judicial Administration, not the Supreme Council of Justice. Well, give a professional answer, why are you so distorting this bill contrary to the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u30	I'll bet you 27 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:38:38]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. 28 fines, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u31	Thank you, Mr. Head. I return to the position of the President of the Venice Commission, Gianni Bukikkio, who pointed out that the changes prepared by the Supreme Council to the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges would kill judicial reform if approved. This is the first time. Secondly, the 52th paragraph of the Venice Commission concludes that the law should be limited only to the restoration of the work of the CCW, and no new mandate of the GWP should be given. It's a quote. Unfortunately, the law does not fit this position and conclusion of the Venice Commission. Instead, we are offered completely illogical, totally illegal and unconstitutional transformations, including the transfer of new powers to the Supreme Council of Justice, which it does not have under the Ukrainian Constitution. You celebrated Constitution Day yesterday, telling how you respect it, but it doesn't fit a whole series of articles of the Ukrainian Constitution. So there is a proposal and a request.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u32	I'll bet you 28 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:40:05]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 29th, Demchenko. Don't insist. Sobolev, 30 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u33	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, these are, by the way, the issues that need to be addressed by the key question: which body will continue to regulate in fact and give advice based on budgetary funding, based on how many cases are dealt with in the Supreme Court? Is it going to be the State Court Administration, or is it going to be governed directly by a body that doesn't have these functions? I'm actually referring to the Higher Council of Justice. A number of rights are aimed at this and are aimed at the Supreme Court of Justice actually defining the key parameters, and the Supreme Council of Justice has already implemented them. Logic is absolute. And that comes from the recommendations of the Venice Commission. This was the reason why this law did not work, and we are correcting it. So the request to support this part of the amendment, number 30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u34	I'm betting on the vote number 30 Soboljeva. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:41:43]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Next line 31, Nadvajchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u35	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I insist on this amendment, and I will explain to all Ukrainian citizens why. Today is the first day of the 26th year of the valid Ukrainian Constitution. And all 26-year-old Ukrainian citizens are awaiting and demanding fair, independent courts. Dear friends, where is justice done? According to our Constitution, it's only in the courts. Where do we want to see justice? The same in our Ukrainian courts. Not in British, not New Zealand, but in Ukraine. That's why we want to protect that there are people working in the Supreme Court who, firstly, have skills; secondly, respect in the judiciary; and thirdly, are independent and independent in the exercise of justice in Ukraine. Please consider my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u36	I'll bet on the 31st draft of the Covenant. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:43:11]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next item. Puzichuk, 34th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u37	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Colleagues, you know, you're trying to correct your mistakes in October 2019, again making mistakes. Well, how can mistakes be corrected? Allow me, laws need to be corrected professionally, properly, in a legal way. This isn't about this bill. Can't this bill be reinstated for second reading, processed, compiled by the same representatives of the State Judicial Administration, the High Council of Justice, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, experts and a bill that will really lead to long-awaited judicial reform? And I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u38	I'll bet you 34 Puzichuk's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:44:36]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next line is 36. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u39	Thank you. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. My colleagues, once again, this bill needs substantial work. The boots must have been removed by all the disadvantages and the "hotels" of mono size, as it doesn't sound. Bills that conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine cannot be adopted that contradict the conclusions of the Venice Commission. Listen, you're going to go around the circle again and block real judicial reform. Once again, there will be a motion before the Constitutional Court. We can expect that the same decision of the Constitutional Court will be made because it applies to the standards that were already adopted by you in October 2019. But Ukrainian citizens can't get 30 years of, really, fair, fair trial to protect their interests. Let us work together to prepare the right, effective law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u40	I'll bet you 36 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:46:06]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Next line is 38. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u41	Thank you. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear citizens, notice, those bills that violate your constitutional rights are adopted in this way: no comment, no discussion at all. In fact, there's a whole lot of people trying to stretch their "hotels" one more time to get the whole court system under control. Rather than reform, there is destruction and subordination of the vast majority of the judicial system. Who in this country, after such laws, can count on an honest and just court to defend their interests? This is not intended to ensure your rights and freedoms. So I ask you to send this bill to read again and to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u42	I'm betting on the 38th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:47:36]] For-80 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 40. Vlasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u43	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I would like to emphasize once again that only yesterday did everyone have a paphosically celebrated Constitution Day, and today is the adoption of a law that directly contradicts this Constitution, which, by the way, is very carefully written by the Venice Commission as part of the fact that representatives of foreign organizations influence the formation of a judicial branch of power in Ukraine. I want to remind you that we have foreigners sitting on the NAC Naftogazu Supervisory Board. What, did the tariffs go down? No, it's not. We have foreigners sitting in the Supervisory Board of the Crossroads. What, did it get better? No, it's not. We have foreigners sitting in the oversight council and directing the Crucifixion. What, did she start working better from that? No, it's not. We had foreigners choose the head of the Specialized Anticorruption Prosecutor’s Office and the National Anticorruption Bureau. Have we overcome corruption yet? No, nothing has changed. And we're still being asked to keep doing this. This does not correspond to article 1 of the Ukrainian Constitution and the conclusions of the Venice Commission. Please don't support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u44	I'm betting on the 40th amendment of the People's Deputy Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:49:05]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 41, Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u45	My amendment actually refers to the key provisions of article 31, which are proposed to be excluded, since in our view they are totally contrary to logic, who should set the key order and how this will happen. We insist that this should still be determined by the body that has these functional powers. And in fact, as it's written in this paper right now, we're giving the political authority a definition of how the key funding parameters, the quantity composition, are going to happen. We passed it on to the authorities, and the law, and the Constitution determines it right under the judicial administration. I have a request, this article in article 31, part four, to rule out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u46	I'm betting on the 41th Amendment of People's Deputy Sobolev, Tsimbaluka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:50:31]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 43. It's cool. I'm sorry. 42nd, Krulko Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u47	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, my amendment 42 refers to the fact that the body that provides organizational and financial security for the activities of the judiciary is the State Court Administration. The introduction of the proposed changes nullifies the value of the State Judicial Administration as part of a restructured system of public authorities that ensures the functioning of judges in Ukraine. In fact, the Supreme Council of Justice assumes part of its functions by giving the State Judicial Administration a secondary role. Therefore, my suggestion is to support this amendment and not give the Supreme Council any powers that it does not have. If we have the National Court of Justice, let it fully perform its functions and deal with the tasks provided for in the law. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u48	I'm betting on the 42th Amendment of People's Deputies, Timoshenko and Krulka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify yourself and vote. [[10:51:59]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next 43rd, Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, welcome to the Day of the Constitution! Let us continue to reap the buttons of the anti-constitutional law. I'm, you know, in the current situation completely. I have this feeling of déjà vu, this situation completely reminds me of how it was adopted in this room in October-November 19th of the so-called 1008 Bill on so-called judicial reform. You see, the committee’s leadership was silent on the rostrum, sometimes commenting, not quite below, but commenting. We also spoke from the opposition about some amendments, said it was unconstitutional. We were told, no, that's how we understand the rule of law, that's how we live, that's how it's gonna be. I'm totally drooling, colleagues. And I'm convinced that after a period of time when the work of the Constitutional Court will be unlocked, which you've only blocked so as not to define as clearly unconstitutional the Land Act, this law will also be declared unconstitutional. Then I ask you to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u50	I'm betting on a vote of 43 amendments to the People's Deputies of Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:53:29]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 44th, Germany, Schufrich. Who's it gonna be? They don't want to. Next 45th, Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u51	Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u52	Tsymbaluk. Cimbal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u53	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Ukrainian people, two years later, the current authorities realized that judicial reform was needed. But is that how it is? No, of course not. And the judiciary branch of government under the Constitution has to function independently, and it has a state administration, a judicial administration. What authority does she have today? According to this project, it is depriving itself of any function that already exists. Sergey Soboljev, 45, and I propose that the judicial administration, which has the authority to determine the amount of funding relating to the State budget and control the activities of the courts, be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u54	I am betting on a vote of 45 amendments to the national MPs Sobolev and Cimbaluk. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:55:16]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 49th, Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I greet everyone on their behalf with the Day of Constitution and remind them that it is impossible, not possible, not to vote for laws that are questionable from the point of view of the Ukrainian Constitution. Once again, this is not the position of Sergey Vlasenka just, this position is being followed in the conclusion of the Venice Commission, which says that the so-called international component is questionable from the point of view of the Ukrainian Constitution and can only be very and very temporary, because it is a quest for state sovereignty. If we respect ourselves, we're going to find six people in a 40 million-dollar country to be part of a commission that's going to elect the VCC and the VWP. If you need a last name, I'll call you names of independent people who don't depend on the political forces who have sufficient life and professional experience and may be the ones entrusted to Ukrainian society, unlike any unknown international experts who are already themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u56	I'm betting on the vote of 49 Vlasta, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:56:56]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Soboljev, 50.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u57	My fellow Members, I have such a feeling that the amendments that we made when this decision was passed before the definition and the Constitutional Court, and when this decision was not actually supported by the Venice Commission that voted the Hall, nothing really changed. A big request is that you listen to those who have experienced the sixth judicial reform, all of whom have failed, another attempt to attack the same rakes will lead to nothing good. We have a request: we need to set out clearly which body is directly responsible for what positions. If the judicial administration is the body that regulates financing, organizational security, it is natural that they should set the key parameters.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u58	I'm betting on the vote number 50. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[10:58:27]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Next order, Knyazevitch. Don't insist. Krulko, 51 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u59	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, look again at the amendment that takes up part of the functions and powers of the State Judicial Administration and is handed over to the Supreme Council of Justice. To our conviction, there is a special government body that provides organizational and financial support for the work of the judicial authorities. It is clear that the State Court Administration, which by law is such an authority, should provide for the functions provided for by law. We don't think that the possibility of transferring part of the functions from the State Judicial Administration to the High Council of Justice is the kind of judicial reform that people are looking forward to. Because in fact, judicial reform must be that people have access to justice, they can defend their rights, and the courts today have decided, not on the command above, but on the basis of the law. That's what people require. That's why we're against this pseudo-reform, there's nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u60	I'll bet you 51 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:00:06]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item is Twatchenka. Don't insist. Germany. Don't insist. Vlasenko, 68.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u61	Thank you, Mr. Head. As long as we're here. By the way, with Constitution Day, you're also all, and I urge you not to vote for unconstitutional laws. As we now vote on our amendments, there is news that without any competitive procedures, the board of directors of Ukraine, which is made up of foreign citizens, including foreign citizens, has continued its contract with the head of Ukrešta, who is also a citizen of the United States of America, for another two years. We have what, Krašta works absolutely super-class, all citizens have the opportunity without queues, without any problems to do anything they want with Krašta, such as getting a pension or paying for utility fees? No, it's not. I mean, we're just talking about a new face that's completely exhausted, and now they're replacing the mantra with aliens. But once again, this is not in line with the conclusion of the Venice Commission, and secondly, it is a direct violation of article 1 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which speaks of Ukraine as a sovereign state. So I'm asking you not to support this, but to support number 68.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u62	I'll bet you 68. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:01:57]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Next line, Nadjajchenka, 70 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u63	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Dear Ukrainian citizens, I insist on this amendment in order for you all to finally see your judges in your courts in the areas, in the villages, in the cities. Now, think about it, in recent years, out of the 8,000 judges who are supposed to protect you, they have to protect your rights, 2,000 vacancies, 2,000 people are missing, there are no 2,000 judges, and you are, and you have life every day. When will the situation finally change? "Paternality" suggests a professional solution: to make and fill with the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges the possibility of assigning you to the courts of experts, assigning you to the courts of people who have experience and whom you know and respect. That's what we insist on. This is a reform of justice, because it belongs to you, it's addressed to you, citizens of honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u64	I'll bet you 70 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:03:26]] For-81 The decision is not taken. 69, Makarov. But it's edited, so they didn't stop at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u65	I would like to thank you for taking my work into account. But one way or another, it's about that. The point of the case is that we insist that not only eight members of the Higher Qualifications Commission were from judges, but eight other members of the Higher Qualifications Commission were from other professions. That is, there's no way that the judges have filled out the entire High Qualifying Commission of Judges. We may have to ensure that lawyers, professionals of other legal professions, are represented. I am absolutely convinced that such work, united, with judges and professionals in other legal professions will lead to a greater, more objective outcome in the selection of judges and in the conduct of qualified evaluations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u66	I'll bet 69 Makarov's vote. The committee was not supported, it was considered editorially. The author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the vote on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[11:05:06]] For 104 The decision is not taken, the amendment remains edited. Osadchuk. Don't insist. Sobolev, 80 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, we've had a situation in history where the head of the High Court of Commerce was in charge of the Supreme Court for two years when he was out of court. That's something you're actually suggesting right now. Well, how's that? A person has been out of office for six months, and he continues to serve as a representative of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges. Well, think about how that could be. No one chose it for a new term. Well, at least make an entry that roughly meets the general qualifications: 2 months. That's my offer. Well, a person can't do six months, no one's chosen, no one's assigned, to continue carrying out such responsible responsibilities. What are we pushing the country to do? Who will continue to be responsible for unjust decisions?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u68	I'm betting on the vote number 80 Soboljeva. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:06:45]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Kulinich. Don't insist. Sobolev, 88 lashes. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's counted. Well, we can put it on. 88 lacquers.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u69	88 lacquers. Directly on this point, we propose to approve, in agreement with the Higher Council of Justice, the form and content of the statement of participation in the selection of candidates for judges. In fact, in what is now the actual mandate of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. And this once again changes the constitutional principles of how this was defined in constitutional reform, as enshrined in the Constitution, and not in these direct amendments, the changes that take place every 2-3 years. That is why I am convinced that if we do not make this amendment, this decision will be annulled by the Constitutional Court as one that does not correspond to the Constitution. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u70	I'll bet you 88 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:08:20]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Krulko, 89th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u71	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. According to the Ukrainian Higher Justice Council Act, the Supreme Council of Justice is a collegiate, independent body of state authority and judicial administration that acts to ensure the independence of the judiciary, the formation of a virtuous, highly professional court and the observance of the rules of the Constitution and laws, and professional ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors. Taking into account this rule of the Higher Council of Justice Act, my amendment concerns that the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges should agree with the Supreme Council of Justice on all matters relating to the order of the selection of judges. That's why we're at the point. In paragraph 3 of Subparagraph 7, it is proposed that a new edition be made in accordance with which the Supreme Council of Justice, which deals with the question of the selection of judges, should be made. Please support my correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u72	I'll bet you 89 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:09:42]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Next item. Sobolev, 93rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u73	Well, if you didn't support John Krulk's amendment, which is perfectly logical, you quoted the law in force, you didn't change it, how do you then regulate completely different reading of laws that work at the same time? Who will determine the standard when it works? It's the same with me. Decisions such as the Rules must be in line with the Supreme Council of Justice. Without that, we will violate a law that defines the powers of the High Council of Justice and the powers of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. Or change the law. Well, there can be no parallel two standards that apply to the body of various laws! I have a request to support my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u74	I'll bet you 93 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:11:10]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Krulka's next revision, 94th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u75	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Now, sometimes I have a question: why should we need a second reading if we're like MPs who we're talking about, and we're going to go straight to the amendment, and the reporter on the stand is not commenting on any amendments to the MPs? Look, maybe there's a position, maybe we're saying something wrong? Because in fact, if we're talking about judicial reform, it has to be first and foremost logical. If we're looking at that bill, on the one hand, they're taking power from the State Judicial Administration and transferring it to the PDA, and on the other hand, what's legal to the High Council of Justice, they're taking it away from it, and it's now going to be without even agreeing with the PDA to do the High Court's own High Qualification. No systems of deterrence and opposites, no balance of power, complete balance. That is why I want to say that no real judicial reform will take place by these laws. This is one thing: How to take control of the judicial branch of power and to continue to make decisions on telephone rights. And we're like Fatherland against that approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u76	I'm betting on a vote of 94. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:12:39]] For-89 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u77	Next line, Vlasenko, 103rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Welcome to the day of the Constitution. What the hell kind of reform is this if we have members of the WCC to have people who don't have full legal education? That is, according to the proposed text, we are told that baccalaureurs have the opportunity to become members of the WCC. I understand that there are also science candidates in the overpowered faction who propose that the President's political decisions be made in the Criminal Code. But imagine that the baccalaureurs will, you know, choose the judges, translate them, and so on. Add the word "full legal education," which means that people with a master's degree should be as low as those who have the right to work in the law and in the courts, have the right to be members of the WCC. There's no logic here, it's a completely technical, ridiculous mistake that's just been overlooked, and then two months later, they're going to correct it by making changes to the law. And then a year and a half later, this law will be declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u79	I'll bet you 103 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:14:18]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. Next line is 105, Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u80	Please repeat the correction number.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u81	105 correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u82	The text, which is now approved, states that a candidate for the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges is expected to have an internship of 15 years of professional activity. If we add 15 years to the date of obtaining a lawyer's testimony, for example, or add 15 years to the judge's status, it turns out that all the members of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges will be over 40 years of age. My amendment is that there are two choices. I'll talk to you for two minutes on this. Now we can vote that the requirement for this internship should be changed to 12 years. I propose that we vote, and we will give young progressive judges the opportunity to take it too.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u83	I'll bet you 105 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:15:49]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Next line is 106, Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u84	I am convinced that this amendment has not been supported simply because the following amendment is proposed to downgrade, a legal internship of up to 10 years for candidates to the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. If we count the age of such candidates, it turns out that these are 37-year-old candidates who can claim such a position. I'm convinced that there are 40 percent of people in the room now who are not yet 37 years old and who are doing a great job as deputies. I think we can afford to reduce our legal work to 10 years, and so young progressive lawyers and judges would be able to take part in the competition, and the competition committee would determine whether he was worthy or not. This 15-year internship is one form of Angieism, where we won't let people under 40 years before work in.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u85	I'll bet you 106 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:17:18]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Next line's 107, Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to join you in thanking the committee, because in fact the bill has become much better than all the previous versions we've seen. There are a few critical things that I would like to say, and especially about what my colleague Makarov has already said, about, let's say, we're making our presidential candidate less age-appropriate than actually a member of the High Qualification Commission of Judges. And that creates huge problems. Why? Because the tighter we get to go to the competition, the smaller we get, the worse we get. If such restrictions were in the election of national MPs, about a third of the majority faction would not have ended up in Parliament. So my proposal is not to play with ajism and still to demand 10 years of legal experience. Vote for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u87	I'm betting on the vote number 107. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:54]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. 110 right, Demchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u88	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I wanted to point out that some of the questions are repeated several times. However, questions are repeated on different sides by several factions. The BUT faction, the Voice faction, and now I, the representative of the People's Servant faction, point out that in the relevant bill we have to point out that the requirement for future members of the Qualifying Commission for complete higher legal education is not somewhat misunderstood. Colleagues, I believe that the requirement for the moral qualities of the relevant future members of the Higher Qualifying Commission is not somewhat incomprehensible. If you and I choose to be a senior judge and we don't use the highest standards as a requirement, we're going to get a higher qualification with low standards. Colleagues, if this is the future composition of the High Qualifying Commission that we want to receive, what are the requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u89	I'm betting on a vote of 110, Demchenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:33]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Next item. Sobolev, 111. Cymbaluk, 111.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u90	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, it seems that the law has almost been approved and that our substantive technical amendments are not taken into account. 111, I propose, consider: "A member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine may be a citizen of the State of Ukraine, who speaks the national language, has full legal education and professional activity in the field of law for at least 15 years, meets the criteria of integrity, professional competence, and, according to its moral qualities, is able to carry out the mandate of a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine. A member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine must maintain political neutrality, cannot be part of political parties, professional associations, participate in any political activity." Support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u91	I'll bet you 111 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:22:04]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Next line is 112, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u92	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, I'm here to see you as your presiding officer, and listen to what is being changed in the law. In the current rule of law, a candidate for the position of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges should have a full higher level of legal education – complete. Now the word "full" is trying to clean up. Thus, according to the logic of the authors of this law, a younger bachelor can become a member of the Higher Qualification of Judges. Listen, what are we gonna do? Well, okay, people have already realized that you can choose MPs without education, without any education just to finish school, you can write on the list to the MPs. So let's at least think that this is the body that refers to the selection of the entire judicial system, the selection of judges. So my proposal is to complement one word: "full" with higher legal education, so that there is a person who claims to be a member of the WCC. What's wrong? So please tell me, please support and vote. And then we're going to get the required number of votes, and even though we're going to change this fool's law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u93	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, this law originally defines the term "higher legal education" for the purposes of this law, which includes exactly what you are trying to put in this article. I mean, there's no need. That's what the committee's been working on. He can't be a bachelor member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u95	Thank you. I'm betting vote number 112, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:03]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. Kabachenko, 113th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u96	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. Andriy Evgenovich, do you think that the degree of Bachelorship in re-loading the VCC is enough for the new members of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges? By following standards. On the basis of article 120 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask you to give a very clear explanation as to why this bill proposes to exclude the necessary criteria for having a higher legal education and, according to the initiators of this bill, the very incomplete higher legal education will also be suitable for the members of the WCC? If you agree that this bill provides for full legal education, then please change the word "incomplete" to "full." And then you won't have any questions. I very much ask you to answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u97	A new topical question is therefore a necessary answer to the committee. Committee position. Andrew, please repeat your previous speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u98	First of all, the current law is not going to change in this part. There's also the phrase "have legal education." The law itself, where concepts are defined, provides for higher legal education for the purposes of this law. So Bachelor, once again, can't be a member of the WCC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u99	I'm betting on the vote of 113 Kabachenko. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:11]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line, Vlasenka, 117th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u100	Thank you, Mr. Head. The only explanation for what the chairman of the committee is saying is that, as the classic put it, "the law is a little bit fatter written." That's the whole explanation, you know. According to the logic of the chairman of the committee, full legal education is legal education. You know, it's a complete collapse and schizophrenia. Instead of making it simple and putting the word "full" everywhere before legal education, we're told some kind of legal aberration and explain why this law contradicts the Law on Legal Education. But we were told here, you know, about young progressive members of the WCC. I would like to remind you that we have here a seminal of young progressive candidates for legal science who are enacting a law on the President's political decisions into the Ukrainian Criminal Code. So the fact that older people with experience can be members of the WCC is normal. But I'll do it again. I suggest in my right hand that the members of the WCC cannot be deputies and cannot reconcile their position with other positions. I don't understand why it's not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u101	I'll bet you a vote of 117. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:43]] For-95 The decision is not taken. 120 lashes. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u102	Thank you, Mr. Head. Regrettably, the whole law is written in this way, and I reiterate that there is a reasonable doubt as to the constitutionality of this bill. And unfortunately, I'm quite sure I wouldn't want to, but I'm sure it will be, that after a while the Constitutional Court finds this law unconstitutional, just as it was declared unconstitutional by Law 1008. After the attacks of power on the Constitutional Court have been halted, after the "Fatherland" has appealed to this court to declare unconstitutional the Land Market Act as soon as these attacks against the Constitutional Court have ended, as soon as the Constitutional Court can make a decision, I am convinced that the same bills as Bill 1008, will be declared unconstitutional, because a number of provisions of this bill are clearly questionable from a constitutional point of view. And then I ask the bill not to support it, but my amendment 120 to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u103	I'll bet you 120 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:29:08]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Sobolev, 123.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I don't understand the logic. If you are convinced that the level of education should be appropriate, why do you reject all the remedies that apply directly to an article of the law that defines the qualifications of the individual? What can then be changed by the article on general records, what is higher law education, specialized higher law education, will change the essence of a whole series of laws. And in this part we cannot play with this, for in the hands of these persons there will be the fate of the future judicial authority. And that's why all of the previous amendments -- they were revisions, a clear definition of what qualifications should be for the person concerned. And why it's not happening, we don't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u105	There is 123 amendments to the people’s deputies Sobolev and Zimbaluk. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:37]] For-84 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 124. Cool, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u106	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, look at the confusion they're proposing in Ukrainian legislation. For each law, according to the logic of the authors, there must be an understandable apparatus. I mean, higher law education for the purposes of this law is one thing, for the purposes of the Education Act is another, for the purposes of another law, it's going to be a third, for the purposes of specialized education, it's going to be a fourth. Look, that's how we can get to the full marshmallow. There's got to be one way. If a person has a complete higher legal education, this complete legal education includes a degree in either a specialist or a master, as it is under the Higher Education Act. If this is about this law, special, let's follow the Special Higher Education Act, which predicts what full higher education means. And I don't think we should play with that sort of thing. And this 124th amendment, I ask you to leave the old law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u107	I'm betting on the 124th amendment of People's Deputies Timoshenko and Krulko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:09]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 125, National Deputy Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u108	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Welcome to Constitution Day. I call on you not to vote in favour of the constitutionally questionable laws, including the bill that is currently under consideration. I would like to stress again, unfortunately, all of this reminds me of the procedure for adopting Bill 1008, which then became Law 193, by which the authorities attempted to exercise control of the judicial system, starting with the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which led to a completely destructive conclusion of the Venice Commission and, as a result, the recognition of this law as unconstitutional. We're going to get the same thing. Now it's all the same. And I'm very curious what all the same reporters from the same rostrums will say in two years when this law will be declared unconstitutional, and first of all we'll be told that it's the constitutional court's problem, not the short-term rule of law that is being implemented today by a majority. And then once again, I urge you to support Amendment 125.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u109	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 125 of the People's MP Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:33:40]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 128. Sobolev or Czymbaluk. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I see. 127th Jurchishin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, a very important and untechnical amendment. The point is that one of the most critical points, in fact, is the failure of judicial reform, is the work of the High Council of Justice. It wasn't just us, it was the Venice Commission. And now we're doing a strange situation where we're completely logically banning the previous, discredited, composition of the WCC and the High Council of Justice to participate in the competition, while allowing actors like the Greek, Malowatsky, figures of the "Wolf Wolf" who are now on the Supreme Council of Justice to participate in this competition and to re-election of judges. I ask you very much to add that members, active members or past members of the High Council of Justice also do not have the right to participate in this competition. Please support this. The competition should be of quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u111	I'm betting on the 127th amendment of the national deputies of Jurchisin and Ustinov. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:35:14]] Z-77 For - 127, the decision. For 77, I'm sorry. The decision is not taken. Next amendment 128, Sobolev, Cimbaluk. Who's it gonna be? Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I am always surprised by the people who judge others by their positions. Well, by this logic, let's cross out all 30 years of state: those who have held any position in this state have no right to embrace them. Only this should apply to today’s composition of the Supreme Council, and to today’s Cabinet of Ministers, today’s composition of the presidential environment. How does this differ? What right do you have to violate the Constitution, to enforce laws that forbid people, to substitute their professional signs for whether they worked or not? If you have specific claims, if this was a dictatorial regime, please make it a point, there are no questions. But how you cross the experience of people who can go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u113	I am betting on the 128th amendment of the national deputies of Sobolev and Cimbaluk. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:50]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 129, Nadravichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u114	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Honorable Ukrainian citizens, why does Ukraine need justice to appear as an independent activity of the state? Because you need it. Why does Fatherland fight so hard for every correction? Because we demand that justice take effect. This is how we understand justice, not for officials, not for rich people, not for MPs, but for you, for people. Here and now, give justice, here and now, give your fair trial, give your dignity to the people, provide for the upgrade of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges and the High Council of Justice. Without update, there is no movement forward. That's why I insist on my amendment. Eliminate a standard that preserves those who are not supposed to be on such committees and on the Justice Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u115	I'll bet you 129 votes. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:12]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Cabachenka 131's next line.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u116	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. Again, on the basis of article 120 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I ask you to explain the following question. The bill has now established that they cannot be members of the CCCC of persons who were members of the CCCC and the High Council of Justice. I propose that the members of the High Council of Justice should be added to this list, in addition to the WCC and the WCC. Because at the moment there is a potential conflict of interest in the event that a person who is a member of the IDP becomes a member of the ICC. That is to say, this amendment is designed to improve the list of persons who cannot be members of the CCW. Please explain why you rejected my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u117	I'll bet you 131 votes. Please identify and vote. [[11:39:36]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 133 axles. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u118	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In fact, it's very interesting to hear criticism of what someone can't be, from people who worked in previous governments as deputy ministers, and were doing what is now called the genocide of the Ukrainian people or the reforms of "doctor death." Sadly, though, the bill is filled with a very large number of highly subjective criteria that apply to people. That is, there are many things that are subjective in nature that will be used with absolute precision to ensure that unconstitutional candidates are simply taken out of the competition. I'm convinced that Mr. Chairman of the committee knows this, who on his skin has felt this story, and he realizes that all of these criteria are completely artificial and completely incomprehensible. So I propose that certain subjective criteria be removed from the relevant articles of the law. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u119	I'm betting on the 133rd vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:41:04]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. 134.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u120	Thank you, Mr. Head. Let's talk fair and square about the contests. Let's be honest with each other, let's say that competitions as they are, unfortunately, do not perform the function that has been laid down in a series of bills, and this procedure has been taken to ensure the selection of the most professional, the most honest, the most decent representatives to the relevant authorities. I just want to remind everyone about the SAP competition commission, and I want to remind everyone of the other commissions that were being created, and they said that there would be people with an undeniable reputation, undeniable moral qualities, and so on and so forth. But unfortunately, in practice, we get, first of all, people who don't really meet those criteria on the boards, and as a result, we get elected people who don't exactly meet the criteria that are set. So maybe there's a point or.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u121	I'll bet you 134 votes. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:33]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. Makarov. Excuse me, Vlasenko, 137th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u122	So maybe it is. I'll go on with my opinion. First of all, I welcome everyone back to Constitution Day. I would urge you not to vote in favour of constitutionally questionable bills, such as Bill 3711-d, which is currently under consideration. And I'll keep thinking. So maybe we have a sense of either seriously reviewing or giving up competitions in this way, in this way, I'm stressing how they're being conducted right now. It is because, unfortunately, the idea of competitions, which in itself is not bad, unfortunately, the actions of power are completely discredited. We usually know the winner’s name in advance, we usually understand in advance where these procedures are faked, we usually understand in advance where the subjective factor works. In fact, it's a great fundamental strategic political debate that needs to be discussed, not by voting green or red in favour or against. Unfortunately, no one needs a discussion in this room. Everybody needs to take something.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u123	I'll bet you 137 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:09]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Next line, Makarov, 139th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u124	I want to say that when the majority, along with the President's Office, agreed to the last edition, they forgot to ask the representatives of other opposition factions, groups, or whether you would vote in favour. So I want to tell you that there are principles of amendment that we're going to insist on. And if these amendments are not accepted, we will not vote in favour of this bill. And this bill will either not be accepted, and the full responsibility will lie with the majority, along with the President's Office, which works culinaryly, that on the first reading, which on the second, or this bill will be sent for re-reading. I now propose to look closely at the amendments proposed by representatives of the non-mono-majority faction, so that they do not take responsibility for the absence of a timely normal selection of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u125	I'll bet you 139 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:45:37]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Next line, Vlasenka, 143rd. There's no Vlasenko. Next. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Vlasenka's next amendment, too, 147th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u126	Mr. Head, 143 revisions, I'm in position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u127	147th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u128	143rd, Mr. Head. The fact that you haven't seen me is, I'm sorry, it's not my problem. But I'm going back to the competition discussion. We really need to get back to this discussion. The fact that there is no debate on this issue in Parliament is a huge problem of our parliamentaryism. Someone at the top is sending us some messages, to Parliament, I mean, most of the messages are being received, voted whatever, and we're not doing anything. Unfortunately, I emphasize once again, despite the good idea of holding a competition, but in the way that we have competitions, they're ineffective, they're pro-electing people on competitive grounds, they're not ensuring that quality professionals are selected, they're just covering up what seems to be a competitive procedure for choosing who needs to, but they're saying, look, that's a competition. So unfortunately, I reiterate, there is no debate in Parliament, but I ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u129	Sergey Volodymyrovich, you can't see the deputy behind the door. Ah, behind the column. Well, there's also a bad story, there's examples: the MPs were behind the column -- it ended badly. I'm betting on a vote of 147 Vlastenka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:47:35]] For-83 No decision taken, no correction counted. Petty Officer, 149.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u130	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Now, when we look at this bill, we are so silent that in Ukraine and beyond, there are Ukrainians who have been able and have become independent and serious judges who are recognized and respected even in other states. Yesterday was the birthday of our Constitution and yesterday was the birthday of Bogdan Futey, an outstanding Ukrainian who became a federal judge in the United States. We know and respect this person. And we know and respect the system of justice that we want to be on our earth, with our Ukrainian judges, truly independent, truly protected, for which there is only one rule: justice in action is justice. That's why it's so important that they finally stop destroying the justice system, support and enable real Ukrainian judges to do justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u131	I'll bet on the 149th draft. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:10]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Next line, Makarov, 153rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u132	Once again, I would like to point out that the main issues covered by this bill are transitional issues. That's exactly how the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges is formed to elect this High Qualification Commission, which was launched 18 months ago by a majority decision. And it's 18 months before the judges get elected and there's no evaluation. I point out that the selection is to take place with the participation of international experts, and I point out that the voting of these international experts and representatives of the judiciary is to take place according to the agreed number 4: 2 plus 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u133	I'm betting on the vote number 153. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:50:40]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. Makarov, 155.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u134	Regrettably, this law imposes excessive powers on the High Council of Justice, which is not reformed. In our model, we suggested that the competition commission, which should be the subsidiary body of the High Council of Justice, should hold a selection of 16 candidates for the High Qualifications Commission, and the Supreme Council of Justice approved the list. This bill provides that the commission shall submit 32 candidates. Of these 32 candidates, the Supreme Council of Justice should choose 16. Can you please tell me what criterion? Who will approve these criteria? Believe me, out of 32 candidates, the worst will be chosen. It's going to be the worst of the best. I suggest you follow the model.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u135	I'll bet you 155 votes. Please identify and vote. [[11:52:10]] For-98 The decision is not taken. I missed it. Puzichuk, 152 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u136	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Colleagues, the essence of my amendment is that instead of being selected by the Competition Commission on the integrity of candidates in the second stage of the competition, I propose to authorize a competition commission to draw the conclusions of the High Council of Justice on the suitability or inadequacy of the candidate to the criterion of integrity. The decision should be taken by the Supreme Council of Justice, and such an approach would correspond to the position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, as expressed in Decision No. 4/2020 of 11.03. In 2020, regarding the non-admission of an institution set up by a constitutional body, a supervisory function for a constitutional body. So you're creating an institution that's going to control the constitutional organ, that's nonsense. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u137	I'll bet you 152 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:53:37]] For-86 The decision is not taken. 154 revisions, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u138	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'm very much asking that the head of the committee explain why, today, the advisory body is given the functions of control over the constitutional institution. How can that be? So there might be recommendations, but there's no control. Explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u139	Explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u140	The Competition Commission for the selection of the members of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine, which is envisaged by this bill, conducts as an auxiliary body of the High Council of Justice, conducts competitive selection and examines all candidates for virtue, professional ethics and professional competence. She then issues 32 candidates and, by law, 2 candidates for one position as a member of the High Qualification Commission of Judges, the best, only the virtuous, only the ethical and only those who are professionally competent. And it is from these ideal candidates that the Supreme Council of Justice makes the final decision, precisely because the government authority in Ukraine can be formed either by the people of Ukraine or by other authorities of the state. The competition commission itself cannot do this, but the competition commission itself does not appoint those members of the High Qualification Commission of Judges. It's that constitutional safeguard that's important so that the law doesn't cross the red lines of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u141	I'll bet you 154 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:55:46]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Next line is 158, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're under suspicion of those behind the column. It's just from my experience that people at the presidency of the Supreme Council ended up much worse sometimes than people behind columns. So with all due respect to you, Mr. Head. But you know, it's so much. What Mr. Chairman of the Committee has just said, I'd like him to talk more, too, because it looks like nonsense. Because if I, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, suggest you choose one of the two candidates, it's not your choice, it's my choice for you, and you choose from what I've given you. That's why this is, this is a violation of the constitutional principle. That's why the Venice Commission wrote about it. That's why the Venice Commission pointed out that the elections should be different. That is why the Venice Commission wrote that such a commission should work temporarily and so forth, and so on and so forth. So once again, I welcome everyone to Constitution Day, and I urge them not to vote in favour of unconstitutional law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u143	I'll bet you 158 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:16]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 160 lashes, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u144	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In fact, we didn't have a broad discussion because, once again, I emphasize, the key constituent positions of this bill have gone down to the Supreme Council on top. No one discussed them, no real discussion. The only thing that was possible was for three or four minutes to express your position and everything. There was no real deep debate on this bill. And once again, the Venice Commission has repeatedly pointed out that, first of all, the mechanism with foreign participants in this selection committee must be very temporary. Unfortunately, the law is formulated so that it can be interpreted in two ways, that's the first. Secondly, I personally believe that members of the WCC should choose those who are listed in another opinion of the Venice Commission, namely, that most members of the WCC are made up of judges themselves by judges or judges in retirement. This is the position of the Venice Commission, expressed in their repeated conclusions and, unfortunately, the proposed edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u145	I'll bet you 160 Vlasta's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:46]] For-79 The decision is not taken. The next edit is after the break. Ruslan Alexiyovich, announcing?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u146	Yeah. Highly esteemed colleagues, small announcements. On the third floor of Parliament's coulaires, there was an exhibition dedicated to the 30-year-old Curulta of the Crimean Tatar people. All those who wish to attend this exhibition are invited to attend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u147	Thank you. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u148	Let's get back to our work, dear fellows. 161 law, Jurchishin. Don't insist. You're an outcast. Don't insist. Sobolen. Don't insist. Ah, Tsimbaluk, 178 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u149	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the bill in general is clearly needed to unlock judicial reform. And the Motherland team is in. But for me, this bill violates the main legal technique of drafting bills. There's a way out. There's a way to get him back to second reading. Create a working group of experts from different factions so that we can write a bill that will unlock the work of the High Council of Justice, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, and form a judicial corps on the ground. My bill relates to the fact that not later than the day after the adoption of the documents, the Office of the High Council of Justice forms a list of candidates that is immediately published on the official website of the High Council of Justice. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u150	I'll bet you 178 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:31:41]] For-29 The decision is not taken. 179 right, Cimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u151	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, my next amendment concerns the same matter as the High Council of Justice. It is worded as follows: "The announcement of the time and place of the contest is published in the Voice of Ukraine and published on the Web site of the High Council of Justice not later than 10 days before the start of the competition." Such an amendment will enable, firstly, to create a level playing field for all participants in this competition, and otherwise it will create a situation where it is clearly regulated to report through the media, considering that the Voice of Ukraine is an official issue of the Supreme Council of our State. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u152	I'm betting on the 179th amendment of the People's Deputies of Sobolev, Tsimbaluka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:33:10]] For-42 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 180. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There was a delay with the microphone on. Once again, what is happening in the session room today is very much a reminder of the previous adoption by this Supreme Council of Bill 1008, which was further criticised by the Venice Commission and, as a result, recognized by the unconstitutional Constitutional Court of Ukraine. So the day after Constitution Day, I want to say, unfortunately, the same thing about this bill. In fact, Ukrainian citizens will not receive an honest, fair trial, or professional High Qualifications Commission of Judges as a result of the adoption of this law, nor will they be able to come to a normal court, to file documents, and to obtain a decision that is in line with the law. Unfortunately, this bill is the same propaganda as the 10th year's judicial reform as any other judicial reform, and it's no different. But Amendment 180, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u154	I'm betting on the 180th amendment of the Vlasenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:34:49]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. 181 amendment, national MP Makarov. Please, Oleg Anatolyovich. Don't insist. Okay, thanks. 186th, Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u155	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. My position is that a competition commission, even if it were created, must be a real support body that helps carry out the selection work. And its decisions should be of a recommendational nature. And there should be absolutely no decisive voice of an unconstitutional body, which then conveys its responsibilities to the Supreme Council of Justice, the constitutional Ukrainian Authority. But since this bill is based on, I think, a false concept that destroys the constitutional balance of organs that are responsible for the selection of judges that creates some unforeseeable bodies that are actually taking over the Constitution, I mean a competition commission, taking over the powers of constitutional bodies, because this approach is proposed, this concept, I propose to support amendment 186 and not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u156	I'm voting on amendment 186 of the People's Deputy Vlasenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:36:34]] For-64 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 194. Sobolev or Czymbaluk, who? Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u157	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, there is no logic in this bill. The preceding articles consider that it is the Supreme Council of Justice that is shaping the judge’s qualifications, and it says here that the evaluation and consideration of documents submitted by a candidate for the appointment of a member of the High Qualifying Commission is being carried out in accordance with the order established by the Conciliation Commission on Virtue. That is, this commission is given extraordinary powers. We believe it is right that the evaluation should be made as follows: "Assessing and reviewing documents submitted by a candidate for the post of a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine shall be carried out in accordance with the order established by the Supreme Council of Justice." Let's be consistent. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u158	I'm betting on the 194th Amendment of People's Deputy Sobolev, Tsimbaluka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:11]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 195. Timoshenko, Krulko. Cool, please. Don't insist. Is it insisting? Please, Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u159	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, look what is planned to be done in changes to the law. It is planned to introduce the so - called Conciliation Commission on Virtue. And so from the High Council of Justice, take away the competence that is now stipulated by the law in force. With my correction, I propose that we do not have to create unnecessary commissions that are not comprehensible. If the Supreme Council of Justice is competent, and the Supreme Council of Justice is a collegiate independent constitutional body of government and judicial administration, and they are the ones that ensure the formation of a good and highly professional court, then the request: do not duplicate the authority and consider my amendment, which the Higher Council of Justice provides for this jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u160	Thank you. I'm betting on the 195th amendment of the People's Deputies, Timoshenko and Krulka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:39:42]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 197, Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u161	I ask for amendments to 197, 203, 204, 213 and 219 (five amendments) for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u162	Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, in fact, what is the essence of my model, which I stand for and our team. We insist that the competition commission is created as an auxiliary body of the High Council of Justice, and it is part of the Supreme Council of Justice. Its function is to hold a competition and take out 16 members of the Senior Judicial Qualifications Commission. This commission should consist of three representatives appointed by the Council of Judges and three representatives appointed by international foreign organizations working with Ukraine in the field of anti-corruption and the rule of law and judicial reform. In fact, when this commission worked and awarded 16 candidates, i.e. one candidate for one vacancy to the High Council of Justice, the High Council of Justice has to verify whether the competition was conducted in accordance with the methodology, whether the competition was conducted in accordance with the position, if there were no procedural infringements, and actually get this result, which is to be confirmed. We insist that if the competition committee were to submit more than 16 candidates, for example 32, then the High Council of Justice would actually hold a second competition, and of those 32 would probably choose the worst or any other, and the purpose of the competition commission would be lost. Don't say they'll be the most uncorruptionable, the most virtuous, we don't know what they'll be. Many people have not yet shown themselves. But we have to trust the work of a competitive commission that has to choose one candidate for one vacancy. And that's how we can ensure that the High Council of Justice is already in the warehouse that it is, not interfered with this competition in its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u164	Lies down Anatolyovich, I understand these five amendments, do you insist that you bet or do you not insist? You said five: 197th, 203rd, 206th, 210th, 213th. Just put one in? Thank you. I'm putting to the vote 197 the amendment of the people's MP Makarov. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:53]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 201, Puziychuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u165	Ruslan Alexiyovich, 2 minutes: 201th, 211th and 217th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u166	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u167	Time, please. Thank you. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, we have considered and we have heard an answer from the committee head regarding the idea of higher education. Now, I've just opened the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, Chapter II, Levels, and Qualifications of Higher Education. Article 5: Levels and levels of higher education: "Preparation of higher education professionals is carried out through appropriate educational programmes at the following levels of higher education: first (Bachelor level).".. Part two. "According to higher education at every level of higher education provides for the successful execution of a person's educational program, which is the basis for a corresponding degree of higher education: a junior baccalaure, a Bachelor and a Master.".. The great head of the committee, the information you gave, it's not in line with the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. And Bachelor is also a higher education. And my amendment concerns that, in order to ensure the proper professional level of the members of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, I propose that a qualified requirement be set for a member of the CCW to have full higher education. That's the first question. Let's talk about baccalaureate higher or not? Read existing legislation. And the second question. Let's figure out what virtue is. The law should clearly lay down the criteria of integrity in order to ensure that the principle of legal certainty is respected and that there is no free treatment of integrity, depending on whether you grant permission to the candidate or not. Please support my corrections and provide an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u168	Three fixes right away, right, I'll bet? The answer was already there. If. Andrew Evgenovich, if you would like to add more to your answer, please. No, let's go to the vote. I'm betting on the 201th amendment of the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:46:00]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Should the rest of the amendments be voted on? There's no need. Let's move on. Next amendment 205. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u169	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. One of the colleagues, as he was speaking, pointed out that the ideology of this law was very simple, that this election committee was an IDP, he said. It's a literal quote. Actually, I'd like to remind you that last night, the pophoscious authorities celebrated the Day of the Constitution. Thus, 131 articles of the Constitution, which regulates what the High Council of Justice is, certainly does not contain any committees and does not contain in the list of terms of office of the High Council of Justice the possibility of selecting the CDC. In fact, according to the law in force, these powers belonged to a number of higher bodies, such as a meeting of judges, a meeting of lawyers, and so forth. This is all cleaned up and, unfortunately, we are offered a mechanism that does not conform to the Ukrainian Constitution. And then again, I urge everyone on the day after Constitution Day not to vote for unconstitutional proposals. Amendment 205 to support, and not to vote, because it is questionable from the point of view of the Ukrainian Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u170	I'm betting on the vote 205 amendment of the People's Deputy Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:47:38]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 212, Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u171	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. For the Apologists of the Venice Commission, I quote paragraph 52 of the joint conclusion of the Venice Commission and the Directorate-General for Human Rights and the Rule of Law of the Council of Europe. This paragraph reads as follows: "In view of the urgency of draft Law No. 3711 and the prospects for a broader reform, draft Law 3711 should be limited only to the restoration of the work of the HCC." No new authority should be given to the IDP. This is the position of the Venice Commission under this bill: just the WCC, just the restoration, just the word "recovery" was used by the Venice Commission, the work of the WCC, which was destroyed by the majority in November 2019. There's no new authority for IDPs. This is to all those who say that the bill is in line with the conclusions of the Venice Commission. It is also unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u172	I'm betting on the 212th amendment of the Vlasenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:49:12]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 218. Vlasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u173	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In accordance with paragraph 52 of the conclusions of the Venice Commission, I have prepared a series of amendments that relate to the fact that this law should only deal with one issue: the restoration of the work of the WCC, the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges, which is really "through" (in quotes) "wise" (in quotes) "the solution" (in quotes) of majority (without quotes) created a situation in which they launched the previous composition of the WCC and the new two years cannot run. So once again, I emphasize, this is what the Venice Commission requires, it's the right thing to do. This is recommended by the Venice Commission, and this is the correct recommendation, and it must be followed without question. There are no new mandates for IDPs, no committees to conclude by the Venice Commission. All we have to do is restore the work of the High Qualifying Commission, which is proposed by amendment 218. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u174	I'm betting on the 218th amendment of the National MP Vlasenko's vote, and the committee is proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:50:36]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 226. Vlasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u175	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Instead, the Venice Commission strongly recommends that only one issue be resolved in the bill. We're offered a series of questions to put into the same bill. And repeatedly, on the simple question whether anyone understands the strategy of judicial reform at all, no one understands this strategy, even though a recent document called "The Strategy", "The Strategy for Judicial Reform" has been approved, but it must have been written by the same people who submitted to the Supreme Council a bill on the President's political decision. So this document is actually of the same quality. And I want to point out that, as Professor Presbyterian said in a famous novel, you know, strategies are in their heads, not in their documents, you need to understand what you're writing, you need to understand what you're saying, and you need to understand what you're standing up for. Unfortunately, there was no debate on the bill that we are considering, a real debate, in Parliament. That's why the day after the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u176	I'll bet you 226 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:52:12]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Vlasenko, 246.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u177	Thank you, Mr. Head. I believe that the proposed model and concept of this bill do not correspond to the series of articles and the Constitution of Ukraine, particularly Article 131. Regrettably, instead of constitutionally electing or appointing members of the Higher Qualifications Commission, we are offered the initiative to create some unknown body, which we call the Competition Commission on Virtue. The existence and functioning of which has already been determined by the Constitutional Court as questionable from the point of view of the Constitution, we are again being pushed by this body to do what the State should do, namely the formation of the bodies responsible for the selection of judges and, above all, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. In this way, the Venice Commission disagrees, as I have pointed out on many occasions. So please support my amendment and do not support an unconstitutional bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u178	246 revisions, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:53:48]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Sobolev, 263rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u179	Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u180	Tsymbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u181	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in the course of previous performances. In fact, we need a bill. Is that an option? No, of course not. So they destroyed the Supreme Court of Ukraine, now they're thinking about how to restore its work in constitutional order, the same thing happened to the Supreme Council of Justice. Our amendment refers to the following: the formation of a Conciliation Commission on Virtue. "If any of the subjects of the Conciliation Commission on Virtue in the second paragraph of this section do not grant their candidates, such candidates shall be proposed by the National Academy of Legal Sciences of Ukraine in the Bureau's person for the request of the Supreme Council of Justice for a term not exceeding 10 days."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u182	I'll bet you 263 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:26]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Macarov 275. Don't insist. I see. What's that? Puzichuk, 278.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u183	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Listen to me again, colleagues. The competition commission is given excessive powers, instead of an advisory function, it will actually appoint the composition of the CCW. The bill uses, well, an objectively wrong approach to a competition for the formation of the WCC. We have a constitutional body – the Supreme Council of Justice, which has appropriate powers, and in fact this bill proposes to replace the Supreme Council of Justice with a competitive commission. Where is this road? Is this the way to appeal to the Constitutional Court again? And after the Constitutional Court does, this bill has been declared unconstitutional? Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u184	I'll bet you 278 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:57:06]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Cymbaluk, 310 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u185	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. 310 the amendment refers to the work of the competition commission in relation to the sitting: the video conference mode, the remote work of the competition commission. In fact, the competition commission in this paper has a higher authority than the Council of Justice. Because of this, dear colleagues, we are returning to this important question. The bill violates legal writing. He can't be supported. There's an option to go back to second reading. The amendment is supported, and the law does not support and vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u186	I'll bet you 310 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:45]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 314 correct, Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u187	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Andrey Evgenovich, you're hearing a lot of similar amendments that suggest deputies from different factions, including your majority. Tell me, why don't we send this bill back to read again, not rework it, not create the law that will work, the law that will allow Ukrainian citizens to have access to just justice, where their interests will be protected? Now you're wasting your time instead of really working professionally. Today, contrary to the Rules, you are once again trying to pass a bill that was once recognized by the Constitutional Court as being contrary to the Constitution. Please don't support this bill, but support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u188	I'm betting on a vote of 314 amendments to the Puzichuk People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:00:14]] For-73
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u189	The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 311 correct, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u190	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, well, you can see that this bill is essentially not meant for Ukrainian citizens to have more access to justice, so that our Ukrainian courts become honest so that there is no telephone law, so that every authority does not try to adjust the judicial system. This bill, in fact, what we see as a faction of the Fatherland, aimed at creating even greater legal chaos. So this amendment 311, what am I proposing? In view of the importance and importance of the appointment of a member of the Supreme Judicial Commission, it is important that a member of the High Qualification be personally involved. Member of the Competition Commission in the decision-making process. Because if we're even going to go into this question, what are they, these members of the competition commission, and there are going to be aliens working online, it's going to be a complete campaign.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u191	I'll bet you 311 Krulka's vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:01:48]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Kabachenko, 322. Don't insist. Thank you. 346, Cimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u192	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this amendment is about the formation of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine, because it is really necessary to create a competitive environment for professional people to join this qualified commission of judges. As a result of this amendment, I propose that the Higher Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine selects, by open vote, from the number of candidates who have been interviewed, at least five candidates for each vacant post, who are most qualified to meet the criterion of integrity required for the performance of the duties of a member of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support my amendment and not vote in favour of the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u193	I'll bet you 346 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:35]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 370 lashes. Puzichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u194	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Unfortunately, what is happening in the session room has nothing to do with Parliamentarianism. This is another attempt by the majority to extend the bill only to ensure and satisfy their own interests, namely, to try to reorder the power once again, a majority trying to subdue a judicial branch of power. And it's also an attempt to remedy this inadequacy of judicial reform that you carried out, a great majority, in October 2019, which the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional. And once again, I repeat, you're making mistakes trying to correct the mistakes that will be discovered again tomorrow. Don't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u195	Thank you. I'll bet you 370 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:05:31]] For-73 The decision is not taken. 395 law, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, welcome to the Day of the Constitution. I call on everyone not to vote for the questionable, constitutionally speaking, drafts. Although I understand that personality is and does not matter to everyone, to everyone who sits in this room. All I want to remind you of is today, from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, which was the period of Ukraine, in Ukraine's independence, there was a period when the authorities belonged to one political group at all points: both the President, and the Government, and the Supreme Council were under the control of Victor Yanukovich and the Party of Regions. As soon as they're done, you all know. Although they were just like you (I refer to the majority), they were convinced that they had come forever. And they also raped the judicial system, they raped the Constitution just like you do now. Unfortunately, the proposed bill is not normal; it is such that it is questionable from the point of view of the Constitution. And then I ask you to support Amendment 395, and the law in general does not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u197	I'll bet you 395 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:02]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 396 revisions, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, let's open an active Constitution of Ukraine that no one has changed and can change except us. It clearly defines — first, what is the Supreme Council of Justice, which persons enter the office, which persons are chosen by appropriate assemblies or meetings. How can we go about violating the Constitution in such a presumptuous way? The other one. Please show me where the authority of the High Council of Justice is to form a commission. If you want to form a commission, do it in a legitimate way, in a constitutional way. Who does that? Why do you do this to make it go away? In order for this body to be declared unconstitutional at all? So our proposal is clear: write this out in the appropriate authority of those authorities who have the right to do so. The Supreme Council of Justice has no right to do so, so this is it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u199	I'm betting on a vote of 396 Soboljeva. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:08:34]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 397 Timoshenko. Cool.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u200	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, when I look at this bill, I feel like it's about to happen that the body that's doing the organizational and financial work of the judicial authorities, that's the State Court Administration, is essentially going to have to be eliminated as an unnecessary body. This is the third time I have asked questions during my amendments: Why is it that the powers of the State Judicial Administration are proposed to be transferred to the Supreme Council of Justice? And the High Council of Justice assumes part of its ineligible functions, and the State Court Administration will play a secondary role. So I have a question, why is there a hot jury here, calling everything we're currently looking at, a judicial reform that it's not really? Perhaps it would be better for those bodies that have already been created to perform their functions in a qualitative manner in accordance with the law in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u201	I'll bet you 397 Krulk's vote. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:10:07]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 398 revisions, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u202	Edit is the same as the current one. An amendment relating to the unconstitutional, unconstitutional powers of the IDP, the Supreme Council of Justice. Open the section of the Constitution, see how the powers are formed. The authority cannot be given other powers than the constitutional powers laid down in the Constitution. Would you like to change? Make direct changes to the Constitution, give these functions a comprehensive list of credentials, and then make them. Well, how can you form any competitive, regulatory, any commission, if it's not in the mandate of an IDP, if this organ is formed in a completely different way than you've written it out here? Well, it's like this. I don't even remember in 30 years of the Ukrainian state this kind of lawlessness. What are you doing? The proposal to exclude this part does not correspond to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u203	I'm betting on a vote of 398 Soboljeva. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:36]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next line is 401, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u204	Thank you, Mr. Head. You know, as a result of today's kind of discussion, which is not really a discussion, which is just an imitation of parliamentary work, and it's definitely not in the spirit of parliamentaryism or anything, and I have this proposal. You know, let's all of our bodies that we have in the Constitution, let's write down that they can all make political decisions, interfere with each other's competences, ignore all other provisions of the Constitution. And that's going to reflect this 3711-d bill that we're currently looking at. You know, unfortunately, the level of supply that you're offering, and you're lying about parliamentaryism as such. And it's very cynical, you know, to welcome the Ukrainian Constitution on the one hand, and on the other hand to take the functions provided for in the Constitution into the constitutional body, and to give it authority to another non-constitutional body on the day immediately after the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u205	I'll bet you 401 Vlasenka's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:13:10]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 404 law, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u206	Thank you, Mr. Head. I continue to welcome the Day of the Constitution. And once again, 131 articles that my colleagues from the faction and Sergey Sobolev are talking about, and John Krulco, 131, clearly defines the mandate of the High Council of Justice. Indeed, there is a final point that says that the IDP may have other powers provided for by law. But in terms of constitutionalism, these powers should not be different. Then by law, let us give the Supreme Council of Justice the opportunity to enact laws instead of the Supreme Council. And that logic will also seem to have the right to exist, but that logic is not entirely healthy. So I would suggest that on the day that we celebrated the 25th anniversary of the Ukrainian Constitution yesterday, return to the Constitution, abide by the requirements of all its articles, including 131 articles of the Constitution, not assigning the Supreme Council of Justice to non-proper functions, as the Venice Commission does not recommend, but vice versa.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u207	I'll bet you 404 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:14:42]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 407, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u208	Thank you. I continue to welcome the Day of the Constitution. And once again, I would like to emphasize that we have to stop assigning the constitutional organs to absolutely non-proper authority. This isn't just about IDPs, it's about the President, who's always trying to impose powers that he doesn't own, it's about other constitutional bodies. Other constitutional bodies have already been mentioned here. We need to stop dealing with this constitutional vacchanal and constitutional marasm. I reiterate, unfortunately, the proposed bill, and this is clearly noted by the Venice Commission, is questionable from the point of view of the Ukrainian Constitution. The Venice Commission requests and recommends that we do not touch any other issue than restoration. I would like to emphasize once again, the restoration of the work of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges -- and all that, no I.V.P.P. Don't touch these powers, you don't have to do anything about it. You don't have to go into constitutional regulation by law and so on and so forth and so on and so forth. So please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u209	I'm betting on the vote number 407. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:15.]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Vlasenko, 410.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u210	Thank you, Mr. Head. A low number of my amendments have been developed based on the recommendations of the Venice Commission not to touch other issues in this bill, except as an immediate, urgent, rapid launch of the High Qualification Commission of Judges. That proposal that today is, it's in terms of timing, I'm not saying that it's unconstitutional, I've talked about it many times, but in terms of timing it's going to take us a few months to do it. It's at least to start a High Qualification Commission of Judges. Given that the Higher Qualifications Commission has not been working since November 2019, a situation will be created that the CCW will not work for 2 years. And this lack of judges at 2,000, which is now, is going to increase. And then, once again, people will not get available, quality, quick, just justice. And this law is meant to be the other way around.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u211	I'll bet you 410 Vlasta's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:17:46]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 417, Cimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u212	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, it is with this right that we want to restore justice with regard to the formation of the Higher Qualifying Commission, the High Council of Justice, which our colleagues, including Sergey Vlasenko, Sobolev, Krulko, also Puziyczuk, have talked about. Dear colleagues, let's go back to the fact that the formation of higher judicial authorities should take place, first, on a competitive basis. The second is the number of qualified Ukrainian personnel, including law - enforcement officials, lawyers, and judges, when it comes to the Supreme Council of Justice and their bodies, that is, the assembly of judges. And also what is required.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u213	I'm betting on the vote number 417 of the Cymbaluk. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:19:21]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next item. Vlasenko. 436.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u214	Mr. Head, 422.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u215	Sorry, 422.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u216	If you don't mind, I'll have the timer back.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u217	Turn the time on.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u218	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, this furious attempt to replace the constitutional body of the High Council of Justice with some incomprehensible Commission on Virtue at a time when the similar commission had already been evaluated by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, looks like. Of course, it can be written into non-professionalism, but it looks like an attempt to deliberately replace the work of the constitutional body, which is, in principle, unacceptable. And then in my amendments, I propose that we go back to the constitutional course, so that this competitive commission, even if it is created to actually wear it, its activities are of a recommendational nature. However, if they decide that these functions are passed on to the Supreme Council of Justice, it is for the Supreme Council of Justice to be the subject of the decision - making process. Because I can confirm once again when I advise Mr. Costino to choose something, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u219	I'll bet you 422 Vlasta's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:21:11]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line 436. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u220	I want us all to return to article 1 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that Ukraine is a sovereign state. Once again, sovereignty is the ability of the state itself (the key word in this sentence) to determine its own external and internal policies. For advice, but without the decisions of any foreign entity, including international organizations. So the advice, please, yes, of course, we take it all, the Venice Commission is a very important, let's say, advisory body, but precisely creating an international expert competition is unconstitutional and completely unwarranted. Once again, the aliens are working on the NAK Naftogazu Supervisory Board. Did this reduce the tariffs? No, it's not. Foreigners work in the Supervisory Board of the Crossroads. Has the Crucifixion started to work better? No, it's not. Foreigners chose the head of the SAP and the head of the NAB. The director of the NABU was in the register of corrupters in general, but he was chosen by foreigners. So this is an ineffective way.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u221	I'll bet 436 straight. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:22:42]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 441 correct, Cimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u222	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, my bill relates to the subject that Sergey Vlasenko has spoken about, and I propose to put it in the following wording: "If international and foreign organizations with which Ukraine cooperates in the field of prevention and anti-corruption in accordance with Ukraine's international treaties, in the terms set out in paragraph 2 of this paragraph have not offered persons to participate in the Competition Commission on Good offices or have proposed not enough persons to form powers for the Competitive Commission on Integrity, such persons propose: Council of Prosecutors of Ukraine, Council of Lawyers of Ukraine, National Academy of Legal Sciences of Ukraine in the Presidency for 15 days." At least give me an alternative, dear colleagues. Please support the bill and do not vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u223	I'm betting on the 441st vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:24:09]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 443, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u224	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues and reporter, see what our faction is trying to do. By the way, the only one in this room that's systematically worked on this bill. We demand that all procedures relating to the selection of judges -- an extremely important question -- be answered by the Constitution of Ukraine. Imagine you're going to create competitive commissions in a way that's not provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine, and as a result, you're going to question all of those judges who are going to be elected as a result of the work of these competitive commissions. What are we going to do? This is a question of the work of the Supreme Court of Judges. This is a matter of the work of the High Council of Justice. This is a matter of the activities of the State Judicial Administration. Do not bear fruit or create chaos in the judicial system, in the legal system of Ukraine. Therefore, we believe, listen to our amendments and, according to the Constitution, adopt the law rather than the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u225	I'm betting on the vote 443 amendment of National Deputy Timoshenko and Krulko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:25:46]] For-81 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u226	Next line, Radina, 453rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u227	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please support the 453 amendment. It is aimed at taking into account the key recommendation of the Venice Commission. This is the same amendment that will allow an independent High Qualifying Commission of Judges to be formed and show people that the next judges will be treated independently and evaluated independently and will finally give people justice. Thank you very much. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u228	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, the committee did not take this into account. But given the position of the Venice Commission, I personally ask you to support this very model of voting by a competitive commission that will choose a new composition of the WCCS, which provides for a decisive vote of international experts in order to form a truly new and independent High Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u230	I'm betting on the vote of 453 Radino. The committee is not supported. You heard the committee's position. Please vote. 453 law. [[13:27:56]] For 255 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Next amendment, Soboljev, 459th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, the situation is now as follows. All you've voted on this before is now invalid because the whole order of commission formation was in general different, in order for it to be equal representation: the order of agreement of candidates, the order of agreement of thought. So our position and our revisions were to rule out standards that directly favour one side. That's why our amendment actually corresponds to what was voted down and rejected. Now you've decided to do a completely different model of how this happens. Therefore, our amendment brings back to the constitutional order what should happen in the formation of such a commission, but it should be a constitutional body, not an appointment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u232	I'll bet you 459 votes, Sobolev. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:39]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Edit is not supported. 462 correct, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u233	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, look, here's the thing that's very interesting to me, considering these amendments that we're looking at right now. On the one hand, the law repeals the requirement that the Competitive Commission be formed on the issue of integrity from international experts, while at the same time proposing its first composition to form 3 by 3, the amendment of Radino’s colleague confirmed this. This is absolutely, in my opinion, a inconsistent position, and the law must take into account and foresee clear formulations so that there is no rereading and cannot be questioned as to the validity of the law and the activity of the competition commission. So I propose to support my proposal and to determine whether there will be a special order to form the first composition of the competition commission, or whether there will be no such special order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u234	I'll bet you 462 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:31:04]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 468, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u235	Thank you, Mr. Head. Another example of cynicism and double standards. When the Venice Commission writes that no new powers of GDP are needed, we spit, and the majority spit at the decision of the Venice Commission. When the Venice Commission, even the Venice Commission, says that the so-called international component should be temporary, the majority spit at the position of the Venice Commission. But when national interests are to be covered, they immediately rise to the shield of some position of the Venice Commission. Once again, the President of the Venice Commission, Gianni Bukikkio, pointed out that in such a way, Bill 3711d is completely destroying the judicial system. This is a quote from Gianni Bukikkio. So you don't have to hide from the Venice Commission when you pretend to cut national sovereignty against 1 article of the Constitution as a salami. So continue to give in, but the responsibility will be like that of Yanukovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u236	I'm betting on a vote of 468 people's deputies Vlasenka. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:34]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 469, Puzanov. Don't insist. 472, Sobolev, Cimbaluk. Who's it gonna be? Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u237	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I am addressing those who voted on this amendment. We all understand technical and other financial assistance, but at least we have preserved parity, the parity of Ukrainians and our foreign partners. It turns out, for a majority, the second is international partners. This should be so disrespectful to our national experts, themselves, that we give our international partners the power to form the judiciary. Because of this, my fellow honourable Members, I think that after this this bill will definitely be accused, and I am confident that there will be a professional judge in a semi-contaminated Constitutional Court who will take the side of the state of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. My amendment please be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u238	I'm betting on a vote of 472 amendments. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:34:20]] For-79
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u239	The decision is not taken. Next line is 474, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u240	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would now like to address Ukrainian citizens who may be watching the broadcast through the "Council" channel of our meeting. Notice, the "Fatherland" faction proposes several hundred amendments to this law. What is the purpose of this amendment? It's very simple. To ensure that the law relating to the activities of the Supreme Council of Justice, the selection of judges, the formation of a Supreme Court of Judges to ensure that all these normative acts comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. And when you Ukrainian citizens come to the elections and vote, and you give unlimited powers to some party, then the debate disappears in Parliament. Because any reasonable proposition that comes out of a minority here will automatically not be taken into account. Only what comes in party chats will be voted on, and what it takes for Ukrainian laws to conform to the Constitution will be ignored. Make conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u241	I'm betting on a vote of 474. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:51]] For-81 The decision is not taken. And 484 revisions, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u242	The principle of the adoption of the decisions proposed by this bill is, in fact, contrary to the Constitution. Any expert councils that can be composed of anyone, as the legislator defines, should only provide an opportunity for the formal identification of candidates by a constitutional body. No one other than the constitutional body can lay down rules for a game that is defined not even by this session hall but by the Constitution of Ukraine. That's what our corrections are all about. Decisions should be adopted by a constitutional body, and recommendations given are only recommendations that are considered or not. And we saw wonderfully when the Anti-Corruption Court was formed without regard for such.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u243	I'm betting on a vote of 484 Soboljeva. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:21]] For-86 The decision is not taken. 485 of Tymoshenko's line. Cool.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u244	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, we're going to play with you, frankly, when we have competitive commissions not only to select judges, they're going to start picking national deputies, then ministers, then they're going to be the President's competitive commission to choose, but not the people of Ukraine, but not the one who, according to the Constitution, has exclusive powers to form state authority. So I think that the path that, unfortunately, is going today, and that started not now, it's been going for a few years, unfortunately. We, Fatherland, explain that Ukraine is quietly losing its sovereignty, we are turning from a country that declares independence and sovereignty in the Constitution to a country that has neither independence nor sovereignty of the real one, which must be in the Ukrainian people. We must be masters here on Ukrainian soil, then order will be. And these laws destroy this order and destroy the Constitution. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u245	I'm betting on a vote of 485 Krulk's amendment. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:38:53]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. 492 revisions, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u246	What is the point of this revision? In fact, the competition commission, the election to this competition commission, will be announced by the Higher Council of Justice. Please show me where in the list of powers of the High Council of Justice there are such things as are enshrined in the Constitution. So our position is this: we propose that this item be excluded and that this authority be given to the body that will constitutionally announce such a competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u247	I'll bet you 492 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:59]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. 493 law, Timoshenko. Cool.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u248	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, look what's written in the law is just such a brilliant example: the law defines the order of the competition commission, and the first composition of the competition commission is formed in a special order. That's the exception to the law. So we're actually forming universal laws here with you, as it's written and provided for, in principle, by legislative technology? Are we a parliament or are we an organ that can do where it's supposed to, there's a little bit of doing that? So I think that if a competitive commission is being formed, it has to form, based on the principle of sovereignty that Ukraine has. It has to be an organ that's formed universally, not for the first time, but for all cases. And let us ensure that such competitive commissions operate within the powers of the Supreme Council of Justice, which is primarily defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. Then we will not produce unnecessary organs that we do not have.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u249	I'll bet you 493 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:30.]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. 497 revisions, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, when we think that only any competition commission can identify honest, decent judges, I think we're very wrong. Because even now in the courts where 5, 7, 20 people work, there are enough of these honest judges. The question is different. Why is there a problem now? It's convenient. Because in the so-called electronic distribution of cases, it goes to one or two "bad sheep" sitting in a court of law and doing justice in the name of Ukraine, and, more specifically, on the top. Does the arrangement laid down in this law clear these matters? No, it's not. That is why our proposal is to radically change the order of appointment, to do it according to the Constitution. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u251	I'll bet you 497 votes. The committee is not supported. I'll let you know and vote. [[13:43:03]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next line is 498, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u252	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we have systematically processed this bill as a faction of Fatherland and our position is unchanged. We believe that in this way this bill is not simply unacceptable; it is totally harmful to the legal system of Ukraine. He'll create chaos, he'll think. It seems to someone that he's going to run a normal work for the High Qualifications Commission of Judges, but that's not true. I believe that the judicial reform that the entire Ukrainian people are looking for today must be ensured by one thing: Ukrainian citizens, when they go to court, should be confident that they can defend their legitimate rights. This so - called reform will not make any difference so that people can defend themselves in an honest court. An unfair court is created by this reform. We advocate that all laws be in conformity with the Constitution, not against it. And yesterday we celebrated the 25th anniversary of our reception.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u253	I'll bet you 498 Krulk's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:36]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. checkout not counted. Next line is 500, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u254	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to greet everyone on the floor with the Constitution Day and call for no vote in favour of the questionable constitutionality bill. I would also like to remind you that we already have so - called competition commissions for the participation of foreigners. They chose us as the head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. What, we've had an anti-corruption fight at the D.A.'s office? No, it's not. They elected us the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, whom the Ukrainian court later declared corrupt. What, did we get over this corruption? No, it's not. So this is actually all propaganda. It's propaganda and the surrender of national sovereignty, nothing more than that. There will be no trial, no UCC will be honest, orderly and fair, I agree with my colleague Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, nothing will be created until the selection procedure, the selection procedure, and not the members of the commission, which will certainly not do anything right for Ukraine, is radically changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u255	I'll bet you 500 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:46:09]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 505 lashes. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u256	Thank you, Mr. Head. I think we're going to go back to this discussion about a year and a half later, when either the Constitutional Court declares this law absolutely, obviously, unconstitutional, or when it will be amended first in order to explain it to society again, and why people have not received an honest and fair trial as a result of the adoption of this law. People will not receive fair and just judgment after the adoption of this law. We will have a redistribution of influence to foreign states and subjects to form a judicial corps. Unfortunately, Ukrainian citizens will not get anything more. The courts won't be honest, the CCW won't be virtuous, the members of the CCC won't become better quality than they were, and so on, and so on and so forth. And you and I are going to discuss this first, we're going to talk to you about the fact that we can't break the Constitution, and you're going to look at the Constitution and say, no, that's how we understand it, that's how we vote and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u257	505 law, Vlasenko. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:39]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Cymbaluk, 506.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u258	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this amendment has passed. And the question is, what is the responsibility of international partners if this reform fails? What Is the Responsibility? And perhaps to have international partners accept Ukrainian citizenship, move here to a permanent place of residence, so that this law, which will adopt the majority, extends to them to experience what reform of the judiciary they are implementing? Then it will be clear that everyone is in equal conditions. Otherwise, we're doomed again to an experiment that may not work. And the Ukrainian people will suffer the loss of morals, which is, at last, sorry, we have been told that we are unable from the 40 million-dollar nation to choose the judiciary and self-government, we need internationals again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u259	I'll bet on the vote of 506 of the Cimbaluk amendment. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:08]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 510 correct, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u260	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This is essentially the next amendment that we as the Fatherland are trying to correct the chaos in the legislation that this bill establishes, which is that from the State Judicial Administration, which is the body that carries out the organizational and financial provision of the activities of the judicial authorities, is taken away and passed on, it is not clear why it is not clear why, to the Supreme Council of Justice. And in fact, the GWP assumes functions that it does not have, and the State Court Administration will play a secondary role. We believe that such changes to legislation are totally unwarranted. We are opposed to such changes, and that is why we urge colleagues in the Hall not to support a bill as a whole that will bring no good to the judicial system of Ukraine, will bring chaos and further reduce the sovereignty of Ukraine in its own territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u261	I'll bet you 510 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:37]] For-82 The decision is not taken. 516 law, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u262	Thank you, Mr. Head. What does this law tell us? We are told that we, Ukrainians, are less valuable, that we, Ukrainians, are unable to find for ourselves six people who will join the competition commission. We're told that someone should do it for us. We're told that Ukrainians can't do it alone, Ukrainians all -- bribes, Ukrainians all -- all the guns, Ukrainians all the thieves. I'm definitely against that approach. I'm for us being a great and proud nation that can and can determine for itself who we're going to have as judges. We can find six people among Ukrainians by our own means, we can then recruit 16 members of the WCC, honest and orderly, from Ukrainians who will be virtuous, who will be able to rebuild the judicial system that can make it independent, open to people and accessible to people. And what we're offered is total and total cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u263	I'll bet you 516 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:05]] For-86 The decision is not taken. 519 correct, Cimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u264	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Continued by Sergey Vlasenka. And I'm worried about the majority, because this way someone can change the National Security and Defence Council Act and assign this advisory advisory body to the law enforcement and judicial authority and bring international partners to it. Dear colleagues, let's just think about whether this bill should be sent back to read again, to work on it, so that we don't have to be laughed at by chickens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u265	I'll bet you 519 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:18]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next line is 521, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u266	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, I am addressing you. In fact, there is now going to be a vote for a bill that will have no positive effect on the judicial system, no positive consequences. And if the laws were to be applied exclusively to the cadence of this composition, perhaps we would not have fought so. But I want to say, first of all, the majority. Remember that each of you is a national MP chosen by the Ukrainian people. And the laws that are passed in this session hall will work after you. And after you, they'll act. So the chaos that is now being done in legislation will have to be corrected for years. Let's think about what we're doing and what kind of legal system we're leaving to the next generation. I still think that Ukraine must be strong. And it will be strong when the laws meet its national interests rather than contradict them.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u267	I'm betting on a vote of 521 Krulka. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:54:49]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 522 lashes, Puziychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u268	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Andrew Puziyczuk, Fatherland faction, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, indeed, the Ukrainian people have delegated you to defend the interests of Ukrainian citizens, to defend the interests of the state. And the Ukrainian people demand of you that there be a judicial system in Ukraine where people can count on an honest, impartial court to defend their interests. This bill has nothing to do with it. And, you know, I have such a rhetorical question. Tell me, Your Honor, you're not planning on creating a competition commission for the Supreme Council, where are you going to take representatives of the ministries? Perhaps the competition commission will elect and approve ministers and Cabinet of Ministers, not the Supreme Council, the constitutional body? The same thing you're replacing right now. You're going to move the constitutional system.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u269	I'll bet you 522 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:21]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 523 law, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u270	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm going to have a bunch of licenses to confirm, so they won't say they didn't talk about it. I'm warning you right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u271	Can I have a list of confirmation rights then?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u272	If you tell me the norm of the Rules that provides for any list of amendments, I'll be happy to give you all the lists. But back to the bill. Unfortunately, a bill will be passed that is questionable from the point of view of the Constitution. Unfortunately, a bill will be passed that will be adopted in the face of the fundamental interests of the Ukrainians. This law will bring no improvement in the judicial system. I want to argue with my colleague Michael Mikhailovich Zimbaluk. Dear Mikhailovich, two words "think" and "mono majority" in one sentence never use, please. The word "think" and "monosize" are not used in a single sentence. It's an oxymoron. They're little green buttons that push buttons, and they don't do anything anymore, they don't think. Once again, I urge you not to vote for an unconstitutional bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u273	I'll bet you 523 Vlasenka's vote. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:50]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 524 Amendment of the Cimballuca. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u274	Sobolje, Fatherland. This bill is very easy to correct, it needs to clear two key standards. The first standards that apply to non-constitutional bodies and powers that confer on bodies that are directly enshrined in the Constitution. And the second is the status of those who will make assessments. This status should be defined according to the legislation of Ukraine and the Constitution of Ukraine. Yes, they have the right to an advisory vote, they have the right to determine it, but by no means can we pass these powers on to anyone. Where's the head of the Railroad now? I don't want to name a citizen of which he's a state, but not Ukraine. In prison in Poland Why are you all silent?Oh, my God! Why is it not responsible for what you have done? The other one. Where today are the allogeneic leaders? That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u275	I'll bet you 524 votes. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[13:59:28]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next, Krulko, 525th. There's no rabbit. Cymbaluk, 526.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u276	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we are approaching the completion of our amendments. And it's surprising, in fact, the cynicism with which they approach parliamentary work and the committee, the rapporteur, and the representatives of the majority and the factions that are planning to vote for this bill. Once again, the Fatherland team for judicial reform. Because today, tens of thousands of citizens are awaiting court decisions that have been dead weighted for years because of the absence of those judges who are authorized to rule. Many judges today simply go to work without authorization. Administrative-territorial reform. And the judges don't exercise their powers. We think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u277	I'll bet you 526 votes. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:01:21]] For-73 The decision is not taken. 500. Oh, no, that's it. We've been through all the revisions, we've got confirmation checks. Regardless of what the Rules do not provide, thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, for ten rights. Edit 104, Vlasenko
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u278	This is only out of respect for you, Mr. Head, even though the Rules do not provide. Colleagues, I would like to ask for confirmation 104 of the amendment that sets the criteria for the members of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, including this criterion, which many of my colleagues spoke of, regarding full legal education. It's actually a complete colossion, it's an inadequacy of legislation to each other, and then you probably have to knock down that amendment, not support it. I emphasize once again: there can be no way to interpret this law in such a way that the baccalaureurs, or people who have not received full and so-called full legal education, are able to apply for the position of members of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. And then I ask you not to vote, not to support 104 amendments, to leave it all as it was in the first reading. Continue to act under the circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u279	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u280	As I have already pointed out, article 69 of the Ukrainian Judicial Act, part six, reads: "For the purposes of this law, higher legal education is considered to be a higher legal education of a master's degree (or is compared to higher education at the level of a specialist in education and qualification), acquired in Ukraine, as well as higher legal education of an appropriate degree, acquired in foreign countries and recognized in Ukraine in accordance with the established legal order." So we support, we confirm this right so that the law is not balanced.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u281	I'll bet you 104 votes. The committee was supported, it was counted. Puts the vote to the vote. Please support and vote. [[14:03:53]] For 264 Decision taken. 135 revisions were included in part. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u282	Dear Mr. Head, I'm asking you to place 135 copies of the bill for confirmation. Again and again, that's what my colleagues have talked about over and over again. In fact, the work of the Constitutional Authority, the Supreme Council of Justice, cannot be replaced; it cannot be removed. Once again, if someone chooses for me and then says you choose from what I choose, that doesn't mean I choose. Similarly, a competitive commission that conducts a preliminary selection for the High Council of Justice is not an auxiliary body, it is a body that partially replaces the High Council of Justice, which performs non-constitutional functions. Now it's not about the composition of this committee, because the composition of the commission will continue to be considered. The point is that the unconstitutional authorities cannot delegate part of the powers of the constitutional body to the so - called primary selection. Janukovic invented all of this in 2010. You're following Janukovich completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u283	135 revisions are taken into account by the committee in part. The committee, I understand correctly, insists on keeping it partially accounted for, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u284	It's on the back-up in the paper that was proposed by the committee. Please support and vote. [[14:05:36]] For 290 Decision taken. 150 lashes. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u285	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, it is pointed out that the competition is conducted by a competition commission. A competition commission cannot hold a competition instead of a constitutional body. Even if you want to implement this model, then you have to add that the competition is conducted by the Higher Council of Justice, but by its commission. At least it would look constitutional on the outside. Now it looks like a completely unconstitutional thing, when you create some organs that form a judicial system in us that don't know how they're going to be assigned to someone who's not going to be responsible for anything. I'm willing to discuss this question with any of my colleagues in the majority one year from now, when you're screaming from the rostrum that you haven't had any judicial reform, let's do something new, because there's going to be elections and we need to report that we've conducted a judicial reform. This is not a judicial reform, it's a usurpation of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u286	I'll bet you 150 votes. The committee took her into account. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:07:07]] For 291 Decision taken. 174.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u287	Thank you, Mr. Head. We continue to discuss constitutionality for the day following Constitution Day. Once again, no competition commission can replace the work of the constitutional body. If you have already decided to select the Higher Qualifications Commission to withdraw from the judiciary authorities, which in itself is essentially a violation of the Constitution, which in itself is a violation of the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and if you propose to pass it on to the PPA, then this body itself must be carried out, not by a competition commission. I understand the apologists about transferring Ukraine’s sovereignty to other subjects, but I reiterate that Ukraine is no less profitable. Do not make the Ukrainians less valuable. We have 6 decent people per 40 million people who are honest and could choose members of the WCC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u288	I'll bet you 174 votes. The committee is supported, accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:08:40]] For 288 Decision taken. 239 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u289	239 sets out the procedure by which the competition commission conducts the selection of candidates, and this procedure has two parts. This procedure fully duplicates the procedure under which the previous composition of the VCC was chosen by the judges. And you all know that unkind judges have also come to the Supreme Court. So this procedure is not what does not provide, this procedure is completely subjective, it introduces a mass of subjective criteria and allows the competition commission to have its own subjective idea of picking out those whom the commission considers necessary, not those who meet the proposed criteria. Once again, this approach to the selection of members of the WCC will not create a new, high-quality High Qualification Commission of Judges. Nothing will be done, no fair, independent, impartial court will be created, close to the citizens. It's a further campaign of judicial reform, it's further propaganda and the surrender of the state sovereignty of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u290	I'll bet you 239 votes. The committee took her into account. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:10:17]] For 292 Decision taken. 245 readout, partially counted. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u291	Thank you, Mr. Head. This amendment says a fair thing, but it goes completely wrong in the text of the law. It says that the competition commission is the subsidiary body of the High Council of Justice, which is formed to hold a competition for the appointment of members of the WCC. But in this amendment, despite the first part. If I were only the first part, I'd be the first one to propose to support this amendment, but unfortunately, in the future parts of this amendment to this competitive commission, there are absolutely no powers that make it from the auxiliary body, in fact, as one of my colleagues in the room said, part of the Supreme Council of Justice. So you can determine whether you're with the wise or with the pretty, you're with the auxiliary body, whether it's part of the High Council of Justice. If this is part of the Supreme Council of Justice, then there can be no experts there, then only members of the IDP can go there in accordance with Article 131 of the Constitution. Congratulations on Constitution Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u292	It's 245. It's considered by the committee in part. This is supported by the committee’s proposal. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:11:54]] For 289 Decision taken. 360 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u293	One second, Mr. Head, with your permission. The 360 amendment relates to the procedure for the release of members of the VCC from office. In fact, in the current legislation, this issue is completely clearly settled, regulated and does not require further regulation. Once again, the Venice Commission strongly recommended that this bill consider one single issue: the very launch of the CCW. This is a reanimation of the CCW, which was destroyed by a majority decision in November 2019. The Venice Commission does not recommend considering any other issues, and then I ask you not to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u294	360 lashes. The committee was supported, and now it's looking at confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:13:27]] For 289 Decision taken. 403 correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u295	Mr. Head, 405. I'm betting on confirmation of the 405, which speaks of the announcement and the launch of the first competition for the appointment of members of the competition commission. So the procedure that we're being offered tells us that first we're forming a competition commission, then the competition commission is conducting two stages of selection to the VCC, and then they're passing these candidatures to the VWP. I have a simple question, and when are we going to create a CCW with this procedure? What's the time frame for us to have VCCs? And so WCC has not been working for nearly two years. The proposals that we made during the consideration of this bill were very quick and allowed the CCSS to start exactly one month in order to counter the error that was made by the majority at the time of the adoption of Law 1008. Therefore, please do not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u296	I'm betting on a vote of 405 amendments. The committee was accounted for. It's on confirmation. Please support and vote. [[14:14:51]] For 289 Decision taken. And the extreme readjustment is 409.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u297	Yes, Mr. Head, I ask you to place on confirmation 409 an order that regulates the order of creation of the first composition of the competition commission. I'm sorry, Mr. Head, it's a 408, not a 409. Please place it for confirmation, it's a draft that regulates the first composition of the competition commission. Once again, I think that this form does not correspond to the 1st article of the Ukrainian Constitution, which says that Ukraine is a sovereign state. If the proposals advocated by the Fatherland faction were followed, such a competitive commission would be an advisory body, it could form as much as possible, make any proposals for consideration by the High Council of Justice or those meetings that had previously formed the Higher Qualification Commission, then everything would be correct. Unfortunately, the proposed proposal is unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u298	Sergei Volodymyrovich, you must have made a mistake, because not in 408, but in 409. No, it's 408. I'll bet you a vote. And you wrote 409. I'm betting on the vote number 409. The committee was counted. It's on the stand now. Please support and vote. 409 correct. [[14:16:41]] For 291 Decision taken. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges and certain Ukrainian laws on the reinstatement of the work of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine (registration No. 3711-d). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:17:34]] For 293 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Order on Change in the Order of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. I'm betting on a motion for acceptance in the entire project. 4690-17. Please support and vote. [[14:18:15]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. You have been invited to consider the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine on Improving Responsibility for the Declaration of Untrustworthy Information and Failure by the Subject of the Declaration of a Person Authorized to the Functioning of a State or Local Self-Government, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (Registration No. 4651). Malijka Denis Leontijovich, Minister of Justice, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u299	Good afternoon, fellows! The President vetoed a bill adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for two key reasons. The first key consideration is the lack of an updated and proposed edition of article 366-3 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Since the Criminal Code of Ukraine has removed the “freedom penalty”, the crime, namely non-declaration, non-declaration, has become a criminal offense. In view of the foregoing, it has the effect that no pretrial investigation body has the right to conduct such an investigation, since NABU is not a body of knowledge. Accordingly, the President proposes that article 366-3 should be amended to provide for a penalty of one year's imprisonment, not two years, as proposed by the bill, in view of the proportionality. With regard to article 366-2, the President’s veto is to remove liability and non-declaration of assets that are made available to relatives, since the law adopted in the version signed by the President leaves the possibility of leaving property or forming property to the relatives and to refer accordingly to the fact that the parents did not provide information on the existence of such property, the subject of the declaration may not declare such property or bear the responsibility provided for in article 366-2. These are two key remarks that the President proposed to correct, which were supported by a profile committee. Please consider the veto and adopt the same law, taking into account the president's remarks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u300	Please sign on. Please remain with the rapporteur, Mr. Secretary. Rules up to 15 minutes. Leros Geo Bagratovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u301	Mr. Minister, good afternoon! Yesterday we were all, well, some deputies, Ukrainians watching the Bihus. About the maid of honor of the President, and we found out that he had quite a lot of property there: an undeclared house, an apartment. Can Parliament count on you as the minister of justice to ask NAMC to do a check on the godfather of the President's secretary for false declaration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u302	Thank you for asking. Actually, I wasn't looking at Bihus. I'm sorry. As soon as the workday is over, I'll be able to answer your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u303	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliyovich goes on. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u304	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Mr. Secretary, please tell me how much you think, because. What is your point of view, because there are so many thoughts, discussions, in our Ukrainian realities, how much responsibility is shared, and how much is the penalty for misdemeanour? Your point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u305	Thank you for asking. It's really complicated, important, and it really came into being when considering the appropriate constitutionality of the Criminal Code, which establishes responsibility for non-declaration, the implausible declaration by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and the relevant provisions of the Criminal Code have been declared unconstitutional, including in view of indiscretion, according to the judges of the Constitutional Court, punishment and related crime. I would like to remind you that the relevant bill has been submitted for consideration and analysis by the Venice Commission, which has analysed the constitutionality and conformity of the bill with better world practices, including the principle of proportionality of punishment. In view of the argument put forward by the Venice Commission, and in view of the fact that the issue of punishment is a matter of discretion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and this is not. any position that regulates the punishment for the relevant crime provided for in the Criminal Code of Ukraine, and the appropriate adequacy of the State's response should be determined by Parliament, not the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. This is a position supported by both the government and the President and the Venice Commission. Therefore, in general, I believe that the principle of proportionality of punishment is respected in view of the fact that the court can also apply penalties that are not related to the deprivation of liberty, including for crimes committed, as provided for in article 366-2 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. If you look at the practice of implementing this article of the Criminal Code, no person, even when there is a punishment in the form of imprisonment, has suffered such punishment. Thank you for asking again.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u306	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u307	Thank you. Please give the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u308	Geo Bagravitch Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u309	Mr. Minister, good afternoon again! There's one more question for you. A year and a half ago, we learned how corrupt German brothers traded in government offices. And it's been about six months, and some MPs have been trying to apply, and they're going to put this bill in some of the bills to get the colleagues of the Ukrainian President's Office out of the declaration area. How do you feel about this? And do you really think that such national deputies should be sitting in the Council trying to cover up the officers of the President's Office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u310	Thank you for asking. The position of both the President and the government is that the subject of the declaration must be held accountable for the misstatement, and such responsibility must be strict. This is reflected in the President's veto, which does not provide for the exclusion of a group of persons from criminal responsibility for non-declaration or implausible declaration, but rather a position aimed at increasing criminal responsibility for non-declaration and unreliable declaration. Therefore, the position remains rigid: Declarations should reflect all assets, declarations should be detailed and for failure or misappliation, the submission of unreliable information should be a strict responsibility. Moreover, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that another bill has been tabled by the President, which expands the circle of subjects who will be criminally responsible for non-declaration and unreliable declaration. It's about oligarchs, but it's beyond the scope of today's question, and I understand it will be discussed later this week by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is the position of both the President and the government: not to reduce the circle of top-owners who are responsible for submitting electronic declarations, but to expand the circle that applies to the top-owners of the Ukrainian state. Thanks again for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u311	The word is given to Southern Nina Petrovney, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u312	Dear Mr. Secretary, please tell me, except. The veto is essentially about the strictness of responsibility, and don't you see the risks involved in implementing the law? Because we have anti-corruption infrastructure and NAZK has been operating for some time now. Have you thought about whether there are enough tools to qualitatively analyse declarations and just find those risk criteria, to work out those risk criteria that will actually help fight corrupters and other declared assets of corrupters, and not, you know, just to test those that are politically unfavourable at some point in time, and still some fundamental approach to testing declarations and declarations.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u313	Thank you for asking, it's really important. But let's look at the work that NAMC is demonstrating as the body responsible for the administration of the declaration system and checking what declarations are actually given and how they reflect reality. I don't think anyone in our country right now has any doubts about the apolitical nature of this body, which attracts responsibility and initiates commitment, controls and applies sanctions, including response devices, whether it's party property or whether it's political, whether it's a majority camp or an opposition camp. In particular, once again, one of the outstanding examples. NAM as an executive body, which is located and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, nevertheless, makes the prescriptions of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister very calmly. So I'm comfortable with the fact that NAZC doesn't carry out a sample test or somehow it doesn't pursue opposition in our country. It's on the one side. On the other hand, the declaration system certainly needs improvement. In particular, many can be done to improve the software of the declaration system. Because now, in fact, both the declarants and the NAZC are using the same registers, and in fact we as the subject of the declaration provide information and turn to the registries to find out what parameters of our property, and the same is done by NAZK. Perhaps part of the information can be brought into the declaration automatically by means of software that will increase the credibility of the declaration and facilitate the process for the subject matter of the declaration because of such tens and hundreds of thousands. But again, it's not the subject of a bill. The bill is responsible for misstatement and non-declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u314	Grandmaster Mikola Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u315	Please pass the word to Geo Leros.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u316	Geo Bagratovich Leros, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u317	Mr. Minister, I have a request from you on behalf of the Ukrainian National Deputies. We all see a very close relationship between Mr. Jermak and Zelenski. Is it possible to draft a bill that would allow us to understand the close nature of their relationship? Because we can't understand why Mr. Jermak, like that jealous girl, keeps following the President, won't let him go anywhere. Here we have seen that they were here yesterday. Can you draft such a bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u318	Thank you for asking. We work closely with both the President and the President's Office and with independent anti-corruption bodies to improve anti-corruption legislation. As a result of such close cooperation, which leads to improved legislation and compliance with international standards, as well as the conclusion of the Venice Commission, the bill introduced by the President of Ukraine is now under consideration by his veto. This bill will allow for an effective response to any illegal action by public officials and politicians, as well as persons whose status is comparable to that of government officials and politicians who are subject to the declaration. And it will increase transparency in the interaction of the activities of all top officials in our state, including those top officials that you point to in your question. So thank you so much for asking. We are always happy to cooperate with both Parliament and the President and with the representatives of the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u319	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u320	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Your Honor, I'm going to have to ask you a question of the following character. There was a lot of talk about the adoption of the law that the President of Ukraine vetoed and made his proposals. There was much discussion from the law itself about the need for its adoption. We immediately suggested that we should not push the issue, but we should look for a way out of the situation that had taken place. And I'm very surprised that the majority, actually voting for this law, was supported by other people's deputies, but 226 was guaranteed by a very large majority. And please explain how this could have happened that the President of Ukraine actually promises the law of his own greatness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u321	Thank you for asking, Nestor Ivanovich. Indeed, I agree with you, the bill is very important and was supported by all factions. In view of the fact that the bill and, in fact, the President's veto had been agreed upon and a successful committee meeting had been held, I remind you, supported the President's proposals and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt a bill taking into account the comments of the President of Ukraine. This is a demonstration of the unity of both the majority and the position of the President, and of the government. Our position is the only one: criminal responsibility must be irreversible, and such criminal responsibility, the consequences of its application, sanctions must be hard enough to destroy any efforts by top officials and politicians to hide their assets from public control and control of the state. So once again, I am counting on the support of all the factions about the President's proposals, and that the Supreme Council should vote on the President's bill of rights, with his proposals for a number that will reject any doubt that we are all open to the electorate, we are all open to the public, to all of us, and to the ministers, and to the people's deputies, there is nothing to hide regardless of whether we are in opposition or in power. Thank you again for asking, and I count on your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u322	Fries. No, time's up. Thank you, sit down, sir. [[B in m in s a l in]] Zero minutes, see? Dear colleagues! The head of the committee’s subcommittee on the law enforcement of Bakumov, Alexander Sergiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u323	The Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was passed on June 3, 2021, by the Law of Ukraine "On Amendments to the Code on Administrative Offences, Criminal Code on Improving Responsibility for the Declaration of Untrustworthy Information and Failure of Subjects to Declare a Declaration of a Person empowered to perform the functions of a State or Local Self-Government". During the vote for the prescribed law, three individual rights of our colleagues were upheld by Parliament. And it is these three individual rights of our colleagues that have been the basis for the President's use of the veto with appropriate proposals to Parliament. The Special Committee of the Supreme Council on Law Enforcement did not support these amendments. And our position was clear: not to take these changes into account. However, the room made a different statement. The President noted that the adoption of the law provides for the addition of conflicting provisions, according to which information on objects of declaration that are owned or used by members of the family of the subject of the declaration is stated only if a member of the family has provided such information to the subject of the declaration in any way. This lays the groundwork for the artificially avoiding the subject of the declaration of the obligation to declare objects in possession or use of members of the family of the subject of the declaration, and then the legitimate possibility of improperly fulfilling the requirements of the Prevention of Corruption Act. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes the deletion of section I, paragraph 10, paragraph 2, and section III, paragraph 2, of the law. In addition, the President notes that the penalties imposed on the State on the basis of a verdict against a person found guilty of a criminal offence are limited by law to the rights and freedoms of the convicted person. The purpose of the punishment is not only to punish the convicted but also to prevent the committing of new criminal offences by both convicted and other persons. Then the punishment for criminal offences must reach a level that would allow for its proportionality, deterrence for others, and thus prevent new criminal offences. In view of what has been said, the President proposes that section I, paragraph 10, paragraph 2, of the Act should be redrafted, namely: article 366, paragraph 2, after the words “from 150 to 240 hours” should be supplemented by the words “or by the restriction of freedom to a term of up to 2 years, or by the withdrawal of a term of 1 year”. This is true of the amendment when we removed the deprivation of liberty as a form of punishment for failure to comply with the declaration. On June 16, 2021, the Supreme Council's Special Committee reviewed the proposals made by the President of Ukraine at its meeting. And according to article 135, part four, fifth, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the Supreme Council proposes that the President of Ukraine accept the proposed Ukrainian law and adopt the law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u324	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, I remind you, we're going to put two orders on first. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you, don't scream. Show by the Rules. Show me, come up and show me the Rules. Please proceed to the vote. I can put it. It's only 150 votes. Ready to vote? The first sentence of the President of Ukraine is put to the vote. The committee took her into account. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. No, that's the first offer. First two proposals, after this vote in favour of the law. Please support and vote. [[14:39:58]] For 309 Decision taken. I'm betting on a second motion from the President of Ukraine. The committee was counted. Please support and vote. [[14:40:19]] For 316 I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, the Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, on improving responsibility for the declaration of misinformation and non-declaration by the subject of a declaration of a person authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (registration No. 4651). Please support and vote. [[14:41:08]] For 315 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next issues of the agenda are the draft regulations 5153, 5156 and 4107 -- we can't consider today, they're not yet prepared by the committee. That's why they're filming today. Is there no objection? None. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Ordinance establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the protection of investor rights (registration number 5659). Need to Be Discussed? Can we vote? Nina Petrovna, will you give me a minute? I'm voting on a motion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[14:42:27]] For 264 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Janchenko Galina Igorovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u325	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Good afternoon, fellow citizens! I'll try to speak very briefly. Because, in principle, such a temporary special committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the protection of investor rights has already worked successfully for a year in the Supreme Council, and our affairs speak for themselves. During this year, we were able to solve six very resonant cases that neither the law enforcement agencies nor the prime minister nor anyone else could. We did it. We saved investment projects for 5.5 billion dollars in just a year's work. But considering complaints and appeals from business is not the goal of a special commission. Our goal is legislative change. So we learn from these statements that it doesn't work in the state and how to fix it. Do we need legislative changes, such as the anti-rider bill 3764? Is it necessary to change the law, or is the question essentially human, such as in the Agency for the Search and Management of Assets? Therefore, honourable colleagues, considering that this special commission is apolitical, include all representatives of the parliamentary factions who have submitted their representatives, the request to support and allow parliament to contribute to the protection of investors' rights and the improvement of the investment climate in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u326	The chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u327	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee reviewed the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Protection of Investors’ Rights (Registration No. 5659). In summary, the regulatory committee recommends that the Supreme Council consider this draft regulation, but taking into account the Committee’s observations, and take a decision in accordance with part three of Rule 138 of the Rules. Among other things, the Committee noted that in paragraph 1, paragraph 2, of the draft regulation, the initiator defined the main tasks of the commission: to prepare and provide for the consideration of the Supreme Council in a specific order of legislative initiatives for the protection of investors' rights and to identify priorities for improving legislation on the creation of conditions for investment activities. In view of this, it should be noted that a temporary special committee is formed for the preparation and prior consideration of issues, for the preparation and development of draft laws and other acts of Parliament on the rights of the Main Committee, if the subject of legal regulation of such projects is not a subject of the knowledge of the committees set up by the Supreme Council. But according to paragraph 6 of the appendix to the Supreme Council Order of 29 August 19th, No. 19-9, the issue of investment in particular, belongs to the subject of the Committee on Economic Development. The committee also noted that paragraphs 4 and 5 of the draft regulation required editorial clarification, such as disagreements in the names of MPs, a parliamentary group whose representatives were offered to the temporary special commission, as well as names, names, by the father of those national deputies, should be placed in alphabetical order. In addition, in paragraph 7 of the draft regulation, the word "line" should be replaced with "line". In summary, then, we ask for a decision in accordance with part three of article 138 of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u328	Please sign up: two in, two in, and two in, against, from the MP factions and groups. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich. Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u329	Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. To save time as Secretary of the TSC and represent the faction of Fatherland, I want to say that the commission's work was out of politics, very principled, and a lot of real cases solved, and a lot of cases waiting to be considered. So please support and continue, actually creating a redesigned commission. Thank you for your attention. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u330	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u331	Dear colleagues, I have had the honor of being on this committee and thank you to all my colleagues. It was indeed a commission that first showed that temporary special commissions were working in the Supreme Council, and secondly, it was really out of politics. Indeed, there were many cases when all deputies, regardless of party affiliation, helped to resolve the issue. And really the commission worked so hard that unfortunately I didn't always have time to join it personally. So from our faction, I take the place of Oleg Anatoliyovich Makarov, who continues to work on this commission from the Voice faction, and I hope that the results of this commission will be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u332	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u333	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, MP group "Trust", Lviv. Clearly, the creation of this temporary commission of inquiry is not about politics, it's about coming to budgets, it's about different levels of budgets. Because today, every new community across Ukraine is looking for bread and salt, and every investor, and in fact, the commission here in the legislature, who will help defend the rights of these investors, these people who are willing to invest in our communities, who are willing to make new jobs that are willing to pay taxes, and that is to say, to develop our communities, they need, of course, to support them at all levels, and especially at a high level like the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I therefore propose to vote in favour of creating a commission that will help develop our territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u334	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u335	Dear colleagues, respected Ukrainians, according to the National Bank of Ukraine, the net outflow of direct investment in 2020 amounted to $868 million, which was observed for the first time since 2015. According to the NBA, during January-March 2021, the investment outflow was estimated at 301 million dollars. According to statistics, in January-March 21st, capital investments in the economy declined by 9.5 percent. The decline is observed in almost all areas. In the field of information, telecommunications is minus 29 percent, in the area of finance and insurance, minus 24 percent, trade is minus 21.9, construction is minus 19.2, in industry is minus 12.4. And then there's investment parks, industrial parks, free economic zones, Diya City. And this list can be continued. But if property rights are not protected, there is progress in law enforcement, tax continues to carry out economic raids, waiting for the investor in vain. What else is needed for investment? Take 5600, and write this nail down in business and economic destruction on account of your achievements, a venerable monotony. And in fact, the temporary special commission, which is working on the initiative of several national MPs, is trying to help the business, instead of all of these issues being considered on the committees of profile, with the participation of people who know and are professionally trained, all the clusters of issues that depend on and are taken up on committees. Instead, we see, once again, 5,600 is a nail in the lid of economics and business in Ukraine. Therefore, the TSC is a temporary solution to the issue, and only a few investors, and these cases need to be much more considered on the committees and take legislative initiatives on the committees. Therefore, we will refrain from creating a temporary special commission to encourage this work on the committees in which these questions are identified.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u336	Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Ustenko, Labazjuk, then we go to the vote. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u337	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. First of all, I would like to say that I have informed and wrote a corresponding statement to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the clarification of my vote on Amendment 453 during the consideration of Bill 3711-d. I'm sorry, I asked to take into account the "against" voice, and during the vote, I just took a breathtaking look at the video of the battle for the rights of sailors among the members of the majority. For obvious reasons, I don't call it a "no" line. And as for this bill, our faction supports it. We think we need to do everything we can to have our investors come to Ukraine to make real investment. Since there is no other way to overcome the crisis in Ukraine, we have to rebuild the economy. But first of all, we need to bring peace to Donbassa -- that's the primary guarantee of investment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u338	Ustenko Aleksei Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u339	Alexius Ustenko, "Serial of the People" faction. Well, I want to point out, over the past year, about the outflow of investments, so objectively there was a coronavirus, and the outflow of investments was in all countries, because investors usually went through and stored money in gold. But let's say what we had before that foreign investment, from whom. They were usually from Cyprus and the British Virgin Islands, and the Russian Federation. So let's talk about systemic. We have to fight for systemic foreign investment because it's creating jobs. For five and a half billion dollars, a temporary investigation committee of investment projects saved the money. Is it good or bad? Yes, of course, that's good. The six bills that have been tabled before this from the interim commission of inquiry that will make our investment more attractive and create new jobs, because we have to understand, we have to be competitive in the world. The DABI reform is also a bill that will be voted on this week, a completely corrupt organization that has not actually allowed many objects to be put into operation, but has also cut down many projects at the start stage. So, colleagues, we support, and I urge everyone to support the improvement of our investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u340	Thank you. Labazuk Sergey Petrovich. Then we go to the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u341	Dear colleagues, Hmelnichtina, Labazuk Sergey. We have to be clear with you today that the development of the territories, the development of our economy and the creation of jobs is not a theoretical investment climate, but a practical climate. And we have to move from theory to practice, and without politics, in this sessional room we can and we have to create all the possibilities for investment to come to Ukraine. And not only outside Ukraine, I'm convinced that we have the funds, but we have to provide opportunities and security. In the past, the people's deputies, together with the public organizations, have created Business Watch, we've fought, we've protected business, we haven't always succeeded. But today we have the opportunity to create a site that will enable us to work effectively. Therefore, we clearly support the creation of a temporary commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u342	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Protection of Investors' Rights (registration No. 5659). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:56:43]] For 312
ParlaMint-UA_2021-06-29-m0.u343	Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. I'll be waiting for you, Your Honor, at 4:00 at the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
