ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear colleagues, please prepare for electronic registration. I remind you that at the start of the registration, you need to hold the sensor button and press the "Z" button and hold both of them until the registration is complete. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:03:07]] There are 139 national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today we have a number of birth days in our fellow Ukrainian national deputies. So first of all, let me welcome with birthday the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Helen Constantine Kondratjuk. [[Applause]] I would also like to welcome the people's deputies: Mikhail Olegovich Ananchenka, "Serve of the People", Mikhail Leontijovich Bondar, "European Solidarity", and Ella Anatolyevna Ripin, "Serve of the People". [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, your primary health, strong immunity from all diseases, continue to work for the benefit of our country. Happy birthday. Thank you, colleagues. Let's say hello again. [[Applause]] In addition, honorary colleagues, today, November 17, Ukraine, celebrates, as in most countries of the world, Student Day. I am convinced that all of us were or were dealing with Ukrainian studies. Therefore, the honourable students, we sincerely welcome you with a holiday, your success in teaching, your strength, your well-being, your creative accomplishments and the realization of all expectations, you are the future of this country. Let's welcome our students. [[Applause]] Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, messages. Therefore, I would like to ask the national deputies to sign up for the performance. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kaptielov Roman Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u2	Good morning! Please pass the word to Grishku.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u3	A little bit of Roman, isn't it? Please, Roman Gristuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u4	Good morning, dear fellows! Today, on November 17th, as the chairman said, the day of the student, and I, as the Mayor, representing Ukraine's largest student district, wanted to welcome all the students with this day on behalf of Parliament. Let's give it up. [[Applause]] Each one of us has been a student recently or long since, someone is still receiving a second or third grade education. Dear students, you are our future, you are our potential, you are the people who will change the country tomorrow, so learn well. I would like to say that students are not children, as some teachers or dormitory commanders believe, are adults who have changed and changed the country. These are people who were starving during the granite revolution. These are the people who were the driving force of Eromaydan and the active participants in the Dignity Revolution. These are the people who are currently creating innovative startups in student hostels that will celebrate Ukraine tomorrow. You and I, as national deputies, have to listen to the minds of the students. Similarly, students need to be heeded by the administration of higher education institutions. Sadly, not everyone does. That's why my colleagues and I are registering a bill today to extend the rights of student councils and finance them. In short, no decision at the university can be taken without the student’s opinion; it cannot be counted without the student’s opinion. Strong student associations, independent student councils, guarantee the success of the university, the quality of education and the protection of student rights. In fact, there are a huge number of challenges facing the students right now. We understand that distance learning is a necessary measure that was extremely necessary to reduce the number of COVID patients. However, distance learning cannot replace eye learning. We can't teach remotely to doctors, engineers, and pilots. That's why I'm talking to all the students and teachers. So I'm going to the administrations of higher education institutions -- as soon as you can, go to eye education. Because the university is not just lectures and couples that can be held remotely, it's an atmosphere that isn't transmitted through the Internet. I would also like to talk about the future generation of students and to raise the topic of the land of education, the so-called investment agreements that alienate the land of education, take away the most important, take away the future and take away the future development of the lands of education. We have to stop this disgraceful phenomenon. In conclusion, I would like to welcome the students once again and wish them the best possible use of the years of your life. Be happy, be healthy, and be professional. Praise the students, glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u5	Heroim Slava! The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Saladusi Olga Valeriyovni, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Dmitri Razumkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u7	Dmitri Smartow, please. Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u8	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Mr. Head! Dmitry Razumkov, IFO "Smart Politics". Dear colleagues, yesterday we voted in favour of the law in the first reading on aiding people during COVID, during those crisis phenomena that are in society today. But exactly a thousand bracelets are not for movies, a thousand bracelets today are needed by people to go through all the trials they face today. So I'm going to everyone in this room right now to go over the second reading of this bill and really take into account what's bothering people. This is help in paying for the community service, aid in the purchase of medicines, assistance for pensioners, assistance in the purchase of children’s belongings, and many other things that people need today, including food. Let us not turn the real aid of a nation in need into a pyar. This is bad not only for the Ukrainian Parliament, but for the first time for the Ukrainian State. Please let everyone really join this process and make sure that we are not ashamed of Parliament's work. This is one of the key things that stands in the order of the Ukrainian Parliament today. You also know the issues of the energy crisis, you also know these questions about the concentration of troops on the border, and many other things that Ukrainian society should be concerned about. So I thank everyone, and I hope very much that we can work, not for the sake of the pyrotechnics, but for the real help of the Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u9	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsimbaluuk Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u10	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Please give the word to your colleague after the faction Sergio Eutuska.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u11	Sergei Mikolaiovich Eutuszk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u12	Good morning, Presidium, good morning, dear colleagues! Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. I also want to draw attention, on behalf of the faction, to the most acute situation in the health system. Dear colleagues, all the countries that are now in the fight against COVID, have clearly identified their position in the fight against this scourge, this pandemic. And the country's presidents, the leaders of the country, the prime ministers of the countries led the process. That's why we think that we would also have Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelensky lead the crisis headquarters and in the National Security and Defence Council meetings immediately make very quick, operational decisions that would be able to deal with this scourge. I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that at the very beginning of the fight against the Julia Timoshenko pandemic, with tremendous experience in fighting these phenomena, with infectious phenomena, we have registered a draft decree that we have voted with you in this session room by more than 300 votes. There was a clear guide for the government executive branch, that is, the Cabinet of Ministers, to create immediately mobile brigades so that our citizens of Ukraine, who already have the first symptoms, would receive help in the form of mobile teams coming home, pass free tests and thus find out whether they are infected or not. Also, respected colleagues, there are a number of other processes that would provide free medicine. Unfortunately, the government has not listened to our decision, which is in effect. In fact, last week, Julia Timoshenko and her team traveled around Ukraine. She was visiting the Plains region, visiting the Lviv region. I was also in hospitals, in an infectious hospital in Lviv, where doctors made it clear that there was no 300 percent supplement that they had promised. Also in the Plains, when we met with a team of doctors, they found that the 31st cod bag wasn't provided under any conditions that were not clear, the beds were not at that distance, so some other excuses. So our faction thinks that these 3 billion dollars that are now being allocated to every person who has twice been vaccinated, one thousand dollars, should go for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u13	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Koltunović Aleksandr Sergiyovich, the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Jury Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u15	The township Yuri Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u16	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, today the tenth month has gone by as the Council of National Security and Defence of the Name of Danilova without trial and investigation, violating articles of the Constitution of Ukraine 1, 15, 34, 106, 107, has covered three information channels: ZIK, NewsOne, "112 Ukraine". This decision begins in Ukraine with the onslaught of freedom of speech and court hearings over opposition. During this time, almost every media outlet in Ukraine was under pressure and persecution. And only two TV channels had no problems. It's a pocket channel called House, which has become a proponent of the propaganda of the Office of the President of Ukraine, and one well-known all-Ukrainian channel of one Ukrainian oligarch who has made the Green President of Ukraine and which President Zelensky does not consider an oligarch, protecting him from all kinds of sanctions. Instead, President Zelenski imposes sanctions against the head of the political council of the political party "Victor Vladimirovich Medvedczuk's Opposition Platform for Life". Why? Because in January of this year, "The Opposition Platform for Life" was ahead of "the people's servants" by 9.5 percent, because "The Opposition Platform for Life" has clear plans to end the armed conflict in Donbassa, how to lower tariffs, how to restore the economy, how to raise the well-being of Ukrainian citizens. That is why President Zelenski is doing his best to remove Viktor Vladimirovich Medvedchuk from the political arena. The people of Ukraine were convinced that once life sanctions were imposed in Ukraine would change for the better. Nine months later, Bakanov’s fabricated criminal cases broke down in front of Venedic. But have the Ukrainians become better at living? Dear citizens of Ukraine, answer a few questions. Has there been a change in prices for gas, gasoline, and fuel? Did the tariffs go down? Have food prices, the necessities, been reduced? Have You Lived Better? I think everyone will answer that question by opening a refrigerator. So it turns out that cheap gas, electricity, fuel is only in the imagination of President Zelensky and his servants, just like the Greeks of 12 bracelets and 50 greaves of meat. We recently heard another statement by Daniel about the hard presidential republic. I want to explain to you what this means. This means that there will be no division of executive and legislative authority in Ukraine after the introduction of such an idea. Instead of the judiciary, there will be no GNP, there will be no independent fourth authority, the media. It must be admitted that the one who voted for Zelensky was wrong, and today it is necessary not to build a country of dreams but to build Ukraine for real life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u17	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanishini Olga Anatoliyevna, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u18	Olga Stefanishin, “Justice. ” Please give my word to my colleague from Justice Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u19	Please, Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u20	Galina Vasilchenko, Justice Union, Lviv. Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! I spend a lot of time in communities, and they all say in one voice: the financial situation in places is really quite difficult. The pandemic, the quarantine, the increase in tariffs -- it all hit local budgets pretty hard. At the same time, with each passing year, the central authority is transferring more and more powers to places, and the corresponding financial resources for the execution of these powers, unfortunately, are not providing. A particularly difficult situation has arisen at tariff stations this year. The promises made in the memorandum between the central and local authorities regarding the non-increasing of public services tariffs did not immediately correspond to reality. And instead of the promised 13.6 dollars per cubic meter of gas in October, the budget institutions actually got 30-37 dollars' payments. Appropriately, they had to close schools, gardens, and other budgetary institutions because they simply could not cover the huge payments they received. Similarly, the budget of 2022 did not provide adequate funding for the community. For example, only 200 million dollars were spent on CNAPI. And how to finance sanitation, construction of clean-up facilities, water supply, other necessary things for the community -- that's a rhetorical issue at all. For over a year, I've been trying to say to the majority that at least 5 percent of the PDF needs to be added to local budgets to help them implement projects on the ground. Unfortunately, to this day the budget committee is not considering this legislative initiative. I also put the right proposal into the draft budget in 2022, which is partially taken into account, and is entrusted to the government to consider this proposal. That's fine, of course, but what, in the coming years, communities don't need money? This 65 percent of the PDF in the Code of Budgets cannot be fixed and shown, not by words, but by actions that we really care about to ensure the comfortable lives of people in the community, to ensure the development of communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u21	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Burmić Anatoly Petrovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u22	Please give the floor to the People's MP, Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u23	Please, Scorch.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u24	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'm sure those who watch us on TV now don't leave them feeling that both the session hall and the government in general are living one life, and the people of Ukraine are completely different. Well, look, we got in yesterday. You've passed laws like me, relatively small instead of making them. With regard to the judicial system, instead of taking concrete steps to restore the composition of judges who are missing about a third of the country. The whole country finds out they were "vagners," they weren't "vagners." This reminds me of a character called Carnaval Night who found out if there was life on Mars. This is certainly important, and we supported this temporary commission of inquiry. But please tell me, your honor, do you not want to know who killed people in Maidan and why there is no temporary investigation commission on this matter that killed people in Odessa on May 2, 2014, and why didn't you support a temporary commission of inquiry on this matter? Isn't it interesting, really, to take concrete steps to help our citizens without throwing billions into the road during the acute phase of COVID (roads are certainly important), and really taking concrete steps to help our doctors? You drive around the country and you see that people, our doctors actually work as volunteers without even getting paid. I'm not talking about these cods right now. I think if, in fact, there's a drop of common sense left in this room, we need to focus on things that are really worrying and important for the country, starting with the restoration of peace on Donbassa. And the slogans, the empty slogans, can't do that, can only be achieved through the implementation of the Minsk Accords. And I'm turning to the overpowered faction, these were your pre-election promises. The people on the line of separation are suffering, on both sides of the line of separation live our people, Ukrainian citizens, and they are suffering, and this is our territory, and this is our area of responsibility with you -- bringing peace and territorial integrity back to Ukraine. We need to take steps to actually restore normal tariffs in our country. And when the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" in the face of the leader of our faction Yuri Anatoliyovich Boyka and a whole range of deputies proposed concrete steps to lower the price of gas through the Ukrainian gas, thanks to the restoration of direct contracts with the Russian Federation, thanks to the negotiations of Boyk and Medvedczuk with the Russian Federation. Why Can You Buy Coal? Return to the situation that is now in our energy, it is dangerous, and nothing is done, more.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u25	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Road Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Pusharenko Arsenia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u27	Arsenius Pusharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u28	Arsenius Pusharenko, "Serve of the People". The venerable Presidium, the honourable colleagues, dear Ukrainians, one of the key promises of our political power, "The Servant of the People," was the fight against the oligarchy system, that's the key promise we went to the elections with. Because the oligarchic system, and it's known to every Ukrainian, and we all understand it perfectly, is a cancer on the body of our state. Our nation's best assets, businesses were privatized by individual businessmen, but they were privatized at no cost, and the state was underprivatized at the time of their privatisation by billions and billions of dollars. And these businesses went into private hands, someone was developing, someone was dumping it, and there's no such business anymore, and there's thousands of jobs, taxes, and products. But it didn't change that. Having obtained the best assets of our nation, a bunch of businessmen began to turn into oligarchs. The parties began to form pocket money, started to create their own television, and all the decisions that were made during the eight appeals in this parliament were managed from the outside. The interests of a few dozen people in this country were simple: how to get a credit or a refund, how to avoid paying taxes, how to get compensation for any of the government's budgets -- that was the whole point of Ukrainian politics for the last 30 years. The oligarchs are equal to poverty. And many countries, the Baltic countries, the former Soviets, I'm talking about the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Croatia, have been fighting this phenomenon in their own countries for the last 20 years. And these countries today, members of the European Union, these countries today have decent wages, social guarantees, budget filling. And it's a just state, and it's a fair policy. That's why we, the Servant of the People, started dismantling the oligarchic system and in this room, despite the fierce opposition of this system and right here in the hall, and on all screens of our nation, we passed this law in general, and President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine signed it. This is the first but important step toward destroying the oligarhat in our country. Big business must be, but it must work honestly, pay taxes and be competitive, and work in market conditions, not because of political lobbyism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u29	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Savichuk Oksani Vasilovni, a nonfractional one. Please, Oksana Vasilevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u30	Dear Ukrainians, dear fellow MPs! Oxana Savchuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ivano-Frankishte. Today, I would like to present this information, which is very first of all, including for all those who live in Prikarpatha. This is true when every day a person breathes unclean, polluted air. And any appeal to the State Environmental Inspectorate of the local council remains overlooked. What we're talking about today is a critical situation that's been thrown into the atmosphere of the Burstine T.E.S. This is a question that everyone has repeatedly been concerned about, I don't know, dozens or more of the sessions of the district council community to all possible institutions. According to statistics, more than 40,000 tons of pollutants were thrown into the atmosphere in 2020. Eighty percent of all these pollutants are thrown into the atmosphere by Burstine TEZ. Not much, I'll tell you, the last five tests were broken and no inspectors were allowed to check. And it was only in August of this year that a test was carried out. I have a report on this test today, and I'll tell you that I'm not happy with it. I have great doubts that these people who came to the test have the right to occupy the places they occupy today. Because if environmental inspectors play under someone's whistle, they definitely shouldn't work in the places they occupy today. To be honest, this territory has a negative impact on health. Today, Ivano-Frankishka has high levels of oncology. Burstinska, Galicka, Dubovetska, Vševitske, Rogatinska, Bučakivska, Ivano-Frankovska communities are the communities that wake up each morning in the power and fog that they have never had before. If we want to fight the oligarchs and talk about it loudly from this rostrum, we do not need to fight them virtually. Let's fight them practically and make Burstin T.E.S., Westering Child do quality work, build clean houses, not pollute air or kill people with its daily non-ecological activity. I hope today the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Energy will think about these things, not just to pick up prime capitals for the Burstin T.E.S., but let's think about how to make this air safe for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u31	The word is given to the national deputy Pauluk Maxim Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u32	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Mazurasu Georgiyyovich, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u33	Georgiy Georgievich Mazurasu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u34	George Mazurashu, "Serve of the people" by status and soul. Of course, I join the greetings to nominees and students, and I wish them the realization of all the good ideas and dreams in life. Welcome to football fans with the victory of the compulsive Ukraine. And I wish our collective further success and other Ukrainian athletes, especially those who are not afraid of competition and engaged, and who are trying to be successful in the Olympics. But today I am dedicated to another subject. I'm from the Chernivites, from the Chernivite region, and we have, you know, Bukovina was the first to face a worrisome infection officially, and we have a difficult situation. And I'm asking the countrymen and other fellow citizens to listen to the doctors and get the vaccine. I'm showing an example -- twice the vaccine. And I'm asking you not to hear more, but doctors who recommend vaccination. At the same time, I extend a warm welcome to those whom we have authorized to work in the executive branch of power, the government and the minister of health, a warm welcome from those who have lost their jobs today because of, to my conviction, the wrong decision to restrict citizens from basic services such as transportation, such as the right to work. I'm sure it's wrong that these decisions have to be overturned. Moreover, vaccination does not guarantee that we cannot get infected, nor does it guarantee that we do not pass on this vortex. Therefore, it is not logical to allow people, especially in the workplace, because they do not have a certificate of vaccination. It's wrong, I'm sure. What's more, human nature, and especially for our fellow citizens, it's very hard to see when they're being forced, indirectly, but forced. So I'm asking the government to cancel all decisions that prevent people from working and basic services because they don't have a vaccination certificate. It would be logical to do this because of a negative test, but then when this test is provided free of charge by the state, it will be possible to restrict access due to the absence of a test. And of course, there are people who can't be vaccinated for objective reasons, that's a separate subject. Once again, I urge people to listen to the medics and to be vaccinated. But the state must be valid in its dealings with its people. Thank you for your attention. Have a good day. Let's be healthy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u35	The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Suffrich Nestor Ivanovich. And then we move on to the day-to-day issues, so take your seats with the national MPs. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Regrettably, Ukraine once again holds one of the first places in the world to have the death toll of COVID. About 800 of our citizens lost their lives again yesterday. At the same time, according to the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance report, we are in last place at the rate of vaccination. I ask the authorities, when will the Ukrainians stop dying, when the real responsibility comes to those officials who today have led the country to such a state, who has not been able to protect our citizens from the invasion that the whole world knows about? We all knew that the fall would be a real threat to the Delta strain. Sadly, though, no one reacted except the opposition. We asked, we begged, we offered. And what do we see now? We now see a desire to direct billions of dollars to increase road construction. It's about 150 billion, isn't it enough to steal? Who lacks more money? With our hospitals in need of immediate modernization, reconstruction today. As our energy clouds stand, 23 energy clouds are now standing. I want you, the national MPs, to know that between 9 and 14 November, nearly 10 percent of electricity production has been cut. And you yourself, when you drove here, saw that the ice cream had already arrived. We lost about a billion kilowatt-hours in one week. How could that be? And we say it's all good, beautiful Marquis, and there's a mare dead somewhere. Today, I want to draw your attention: Ukrainians are killed, Ukrainians are frozen — and what do you care about? You're stifling journalists who want to talk about it. They will call on the authorities to act and act responsibly. You're doing a search of the opposition leader's children today, with all the opposition. This was never the case in Ukraine, but we went through it all. And the responsibility for what is now happening with the country and with every citizen will be. And today we demand the resignation of the government and the creation of a government to save Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. With a replacement for the show, right? A statement came from two factions, a break with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u38	Dear friends, Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. I'm authorized to speak from the Fatherland faction on the basis that Yuri's day came when the so-called anti-oligarchy, another so-called anti-oligarchy Law 5600 was introduced into the session hall. I'd like to remind you of a short story. 60 billion dollars we'll take to the oligarchs for extra taxation. How did the 60 billion dollars end, and who have the oligarchs? 60 billion have turned into 30 billion. Who are the oligarchs now? The oligarchs are owners of 50-hundred-dollar land allocations that receive extra taxes, two-size taxes. First. These are so-called indicative taxes when the Cabinet of Ministers determines the minimum rate of taxation for agricultural producers, regardless of weather conditions, regardless of the conditions in which agricultural enterprises operate in specific areas. As a result, Grandpa Panas and Grandma Manu have an additional load of 10 billion dollars. That's who we have, it turns out, are oligarchs. Another important decision is the taxation of so - called oligarchs. It's actually taxation on the food market. You know that the United Nations defines this year as a key year when there is a threat of a significant increase in food prices when they are not available in the world’s markets. What does Ukraine do as an animal of Europe and the world? It adds almost three billion more taxes to consumers of agrarian products. We don't have enough milk to actually have more than we have in Poland, butter is more expensive than in Poland, we still need all the other agricultural production groups to be more expensive than in Poland and other countries of the European Union. We call for a firm vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, the list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making, you are now given, and we are moving on to their consideration. Please, I'm with the Cosmackin procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u40	Good afternoon, Reverend Ruslan Alexiyovich! Good afternoon, everyone! I would like to ask you to use article 33 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and to change the agenda for a total of 2-3 minutes to review and vote on the Resolution on Judgments in 2021 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for young people and students to contribute to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government (No. 6167). And it's going to be a gift to the student's day, which today marks Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u41	Thank you. I think that's a perfectly good offer. Dear colleagues, have you all got the point of the proposal? There is a proposal by honourable Deputy Cosemyakin, considering that today is the Youth Day, to change the one-time list of issues of day order and to consider now without discussion 6167, is the draft Decision on Judgment in 2021 of the Supreme Council for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government. No one's going to deny it? So let's vote in favour of a change in order of the day and the transition now to this particular issue. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Are you ready to vote to move on to question 6167 now? Please vote. [[10:43:26]] For 302 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is no need to discuss this matter. Therefore, with your permission, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft Decision on the 2021 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government (project registration number 6167). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:44:08]] For 306 Decision taken. Hello. A very important decision, and thank you for your initiative. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda. Registration number. We're going to be looking at the registration number for Project 5123-1. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the establishment of responsibility for the implementation (release) of medical devices for minors. It's a second reading. I invite you to the rostrum of Vice - Chief of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Viacheslav Anatoliyovich Medjanika. Please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich. Dear colleagues, will anyone insist on their amendments? No one will insist. There'll be someone, yeah. Please, I understand that, Ivan Ivanovich. Yeah, who else will be? You're instead of three amendments for two minutes, and we don't vote on these amendments. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u42	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will certainly support this bill. Its aim is to strengthen administrative responsibility for the sale of medical supplies to Ukrainians under 14 years of age. And that's perfectly logical, because unfortunately, we have a situation in the country where the use of psychotropic substances by minors through their free leave in pharmacies has become a serious problem. These are essentially substances that affect the health of young children, substances that have drug qualities and properties. And that's why we have this bill adopted today, and I'm asking the entire session room to vote for it that we haven't had cases in the country where mass medical devices are being distributed that actually have a negative impact on future generations of Ukraine. So I think we should vote on a bill with amendments that are supported by the committee and are prepared for second reading and do everything we can to make sure that pharmacists understand their responsibility in pharmacies for actions that are completely incompatible with no moral qualities and stop selling psychotropic substances to minors. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u43	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. I understand that no one will ever insist. Who else is there? Yes, Mama. And I think you have all the adjustments taken into account. Then let Mama, after this, Reverend. Okay? Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich Mamka. Call the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u44	I'm asking you for two amendments to one minute of the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u45	Please give me one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support this bill, although it is not fully formed and developed. Why not the end? Because no government, including Ukraine, has invented such a mechanism that a pharmacist, who will be responsible, will simply look at how many children — 14 or 12. Well, unfortunately, there's no such story, and it's not legal. But what we do understand is that mass sales of those drugs that can still pose a threat to those kids who buy and use those drugs without a doctor's permission, it still affects the health of the children. We will support this bill and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u47	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. And please, the People's Deputy. I see you have two corrections. Which one are you going to insist on today, right? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u48	We have two amendments with Alexander Sukhov. I'm asking the 17th right to give the word to Alexander Sukhov, he's going to introduce her, and I'm going to take the 22nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u49	Please, Sukhov, 17th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, we propose to increase the liability for the sale of drugs to minors, considering that the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in Article 156 for the sale of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products to persons under the age of 18 provides for a fine of 400 to 800 untaxed minimum income for citizens. The sale of medical products to minors is more dangerous, for some of them may include drugs, other dangerous elements that can cause harm to health, and, most fearsomely, the fatal consequences of a child. Alexander Sukhov, Luganshina. Please put to the vote my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, the 17th Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Shahov, the Magnificent and Sukhov. It's rejected by the committee. At the same time, the authors ask you to take this into account. That's why I'm putting 17 amendments to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[10:49:53]] For-97 The decision is not taken. And 22 amendments. Please, the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u52	Sergey the Great, Lugansk. As the subject of increased sanctions for the offence continues, it is extremely dangerous and can lead to fatal consequences. Therefore, as nationals, we should avoid even thinking about selling drugs to children. This is a future generation that will replace us with you in a few years. We need to create effective legislation to provide for children. More sanctions should be imposed for selling medical supplies to minors. Thus, the amendment is intended to increase the sanction. Please place this vote and the entire room will support this amendment, to increase the responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u53	Thank you. And so, your honorary colleagues, I remind you, this is about the 22nd amendment of the national deputies of Shahov, the Most High, and Sukhova. The committee turned her down. At the same time, the author insists that it be counted. That's why I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[10:51:21]] For 115 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our second reading of this bill. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to establish responsibility for the implementation (release) of medical devices to minors (registration number 5123-1). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:52:12]] For 315 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. The next bill to which we are going is the draft Ukrainian Multimodal Transport Act (draft 4258). I invite the head of the Transport and Infrastructure Committee of Artem Vladimirovich Kovalov to the rostrum. Please. Dear colleagues, will anyone insist on amendments to this bill? It will be, yes, I can see. I see, Klimenko. Who else? Nobody else. Please, Mrs. Julia, call the amendment number, and then we will proceed to its discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u54	Look, I'm not gonna bet there's five of my amendments either rejected or not fully accounted for, but give me two minutes, and I won't bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u55	Please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, we are now discussing and voting in the second reading, in principle, a very important bill. He says that transport can be carried out not by a single mode of transport, but by a single company that will use several modes of transport. This is a European practice, it will facilitate logistics and transportation in our country, it should involve investors who are willing to invest in the country, including logistics and transportation. But I want to point out that there is no law, no possibility of overcoming the corruption that exists in transport and that, in fact, kills the entire interest of investors in our country, as well as of internal investors and external investors. So aside from the Multimodal Transport Act, which we certainly support, and most of my rights were really taken into account by colleagues, for which I thank them, I would like to point out that, first of all, we need to fight in ports, in the Ukrainian Railway, on roads and in many other state-owned enterprises, where megacorruption is flourishing, I would say, Grantruption, which unfortunately no one is struggling with, not for two years or fought until that age 30, and all of them are simply, unfortunately, sitting on top of these schemes and continuing to use them. I want to pay attention to our colleagues, using this opportunity, that, for example, that wonderful Law on the Diplomacy of Sailors that we have adopted and that will have to be implemented, unfortunately, has not in any way affected the reduction of corruption in the receipt of sailor diplomas. The way she was, she is, she's thriving, the sailors get their diplomas back by $5, by $10,000, carrying bribes in different ways. So I'm pointing out to my colleagues that, of course, we support the law, but we're going to fight against everything that, at this point, unfortunately, is not allowing us to develop either by investors or by multimodal transport or by people in Ukraine, by workers who are just leaving and not.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u57	One of your amendments, right? And you're here for confirmation, aren't you? Call me, please. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. What's the amendment number first?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u58	Look, there's both 18ths and 19ths. You can choose one, they're both accounted for. They apply to changes, if you can, I'll be sounding in a minute, article 12, multimodal freight tariff. They're just offering to go to the only cross-tariff. If you look at how it's calculated, this one cross tariff, it's calculated by the multimodal transport operator and it includes a number of ingredients, there's the cost of insurance, the cost of other transports and so on. But why do you rule out the word "for cargo" from here, because actually, transportation is done this time. And a number of other ingredients, they're, frankly, when you make a profit, multimodal transport operators, the cost of the services of actual carriers and third parties involved in the provision of multimodal transport services, the calculation of such things itself, it's kind of incomprehensible. So if you can, the position of the committee, let them comment on how transparent it is and how different it is from what we have now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The 18th amendment is counted by the committee. At the same time, the National Deputy Koltunović sees confirmation. She's counting on what he can do. He can only comment on the committee's conclusion, you know? Dear colleagues, the 18th amendment, once again, is counted by committee. At the same time, national deputies are asked to place this position on the committee for confirmation. The committee continues to insist that this amendment should be taken into account. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I put 18 amendments to the vote. Please vote. [[10:57:28]] For 252 Decision taken. The amendment remains counted. So let's not bet 19 anymore, they're the same, they're all equal. Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft Multimodal Transport Act (project registration number 4258) in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[10:58:19]] For 298 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Congratulations, colleagues. Then we have a dayly consideration of the bill in the second reading of 3959-1. This is a draft law amending administrative, criminal legislation for the implementation of the Ukrainian Bureau of Economic Security (second reading). I invite you to the rostrum of the Vice-President of the Committee on the Protection of the Law of Paul Maxim Vasilovich. Again, I turn to the hall: Will there be people who insist? Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich. Who else will insist? We're on schedule. All right, go ahead. 1 Amendment, Cosmiakin. Don't insist. 6th, Kuzmin. Don't insist. 7th, Mama. Is he insisting? Please, Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka, 7th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u60	My amendment says that unification should be by all laws, and it is impossible by law, for example, to make changes to article 184 with a badge 4. That is, to introduce only two organs to which the law applies. I propose that we rule out this rule and that we put in a rule and a term like "right-of-protection organs." Why do I propose that I introduce this concept with my permission? Because the law enforcement agencies, in addition to that, there are other law enforcement agencies. And I propose to add this new unit, which is related to the bill, to another legislation that is distributed to the National Police of Ukraine. It's not a separate law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the 7th Amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. She's been rejected by the committee. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:00:42]] For 114 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 14th, Bakumov. Don't insist. 15th, Dirdin. Don't insist. 16th Vassilevska-Smagluk. Don't insist. 18th Vassilevska-Smagluk. Don't insist. 26th Vassilevska-Smagluk. Don't insist. 23rd, it's partially accounted for, Gregory Mikolayovich. And you want to do it. Please, 23rd. Grigory Mikolaiovich Mamka
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u62	Thank you very much. To be honest, this amendment introduces the activities of all the leaders who have been chosen or appointed, and it sets out the criteria for their determination or lack of authority. I propose with my permission, apart from the Director of BEB, to add: The Head and Judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court, which have been forgotten for some reason, is a separate link of the entire court; the Prosecutors of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office (SAP), we say they are independent, independent, and this is the same level of the Director of BEB; the Deputy Attorney General for the SAP.A. And I don't understand, if we're already in status and authority, and we're in charge of giving the criteria to the Director of BEB, let's give it to everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, the 23rd Amendment of the Mamka People’s Deputy, is considered in part by the Committee. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. So I'm making an offer from the author. Please identify and vote. [[11:02:49]] For-96 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. 26th time again, Smogluk-Vasilevska. Don't insist. Next. 34th, Kubi Stepan Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Head, I'd like to ask you to put the 34th in mind, because when we look at the system of formation of anti-corruption law enforcement agencies, we're talking about expansion, but we're talking about quantity. We're talking today about changing the quality system and forming a single transparent vertical. The other one. Not only do we take away law enforcement systems and even military systems, but we also have to take out quality control and publicity procedures. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u65	Please, Your Honor, 34 amendments, she's been rejected by the committee. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:04:27]] For-119 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. 35th, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 36th, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u66	Mr. Head, I've got plenty of rights. But I was approached by Sergey Konstantinovich Ionushas and strongly convinced him not to pick them up. So thank you to the committee for having developed the text, in principle, the work was constructive. I think there's a way to look at it. So all the other revisions I'm not going to pick up, you might not even call it. And I'm going to say very briefly about this law. See, when we accept the necessary changes in a pig’s voice in order to launch a large needed new financial authority, it is bad. We've already postponed this reception for a month, for two, and it's bad at least for business. And secondly, I want to remind you that when we were creating the Economic Security Bureau, we were planning a new analytical body. When he's headed by the old head of the tax police, I'm afraid neither the business nor the citizens will trust him. But once again, this law must be adopted at least to prevent the system from falling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, the 36th Amendment. You don't insist, thank you. Let's move on. 37th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 38th Vassilevska-Smagluk. Don't insist. 39th, please, Princess Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u68	Thank you. You know, my friends, I remember there were a lot of people here who were happy to hear that the MP's integrity had been removed, and as a result, they began to be held accountable by Sophia Fedin and Geo Leros for showing off some wrong finger. This amendment proposes to exclude imprisonment for tax evasion. I just remember when I was running the opposition channel, and I tried to do it because we were spinning the self - ad of our programs. Under our conditions of the unreformed judicial system, to incarcerate for tax evasion is to exert additional pressure. So the faction of "European Solidarity" requires support for this amendment. We have enough power to order tax offenders, not to imprison people under imperfect judicial conditions, by persecuting entrepreneurs, by suffocating them with taxes imposed by modern - day authorities. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u69	I'm betting on the 39th amendment, it's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:07:15.]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. 43rd, Nataluha. Don't insist. 45, Kovalov. Don't insist. 47th, Jonah. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u70	Hello, everybody! Good afternoon! I'd like to pay attention to the second part of the second paragraph, and I'd like to edit this amendment 47, which is still punishable by a fine of between 10 and 15,000 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes with no right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities for up to 3 years. We would still like the newly created Bureau of Economic Security not to be left with the Tax Police, and the pressure of the law enforcement agencies on business in Ukraine to be separate, and yet we have stopped it. And now we see Zelensky subjugating all the law enforcement organs, so I would very much like the President to do it. The Ukrainian Bureau of Economic Security has given business a normal job. And if he wants investments to be made in Ukraine, it is equally important that this body be independent. So I'm going to ask you to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u71	Thank you. 47 amendments, it's rejected by the committee. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:08:59]] For 109 The decision is not taken. Next 48th Amendment, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 49th Vassilevska-Smagluk. Don't insist. 50th, the Gethmans. Don't insist. 51 revisions. Jonah, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u72	I'm going on. It's also about fines, and you know, we've learned the best practices of European countries, it's also about Baltic countries, and in particular, we'd like to point out that the European Anti-Fraud Agency, known as OLAF, is about the possibility of implementing a progressive model into an existing system of law enforcement. So we've proposed a systematic vision of the complex application of risk, of a targeted approach both in the pre-trial investigation system and beyond, and unfortunately this is not implemented in this bill. So I would very much like the real state of business to take into account and, you know, not to make Zelensky do not make a police state if he wants the investment to come to our country. I'm asking for confirmation. To the vote, sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u73	On account of that, yes. 51 The amendment of the national deputy Alekseiv and other colleagues, including Deputy Ionov. She's been rejected by the committee. At the same time, the authors ask to consider this amendment. So 51 amendments, please identify and vote. [[11:10:42]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 54th, Nataluha. Don't insist. Osadchuk, 64th. Don't insist. 65th, Kovalov. Don't insist. Batenko, 66th. Don't insist. Nataluha, Yatzenka, don't insist. Dirdin. Don't insist. Iron. Don't insist. Jurchenko. Don't insist. Bakumov, '90s. Don't insist. 91st, Aresonkov. Don't insist. 92nd Medyant. Don't insist. 93rd, Kuzminy. Don't insist. 94th, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 95th, Dirdin. Don't insist. 96th, Kuzmin. Don't insist. 98th, Vlasenko. Don't insist. You won't at all, Sergey Volodymyrovich, will you? You'll be alone, we'll get to her, we'll get to her. 98th? Please, 98th Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u74	Thank you, Mr. Head. I will not insist on my amendments, since the articles to which these amendments have been amended have been deleted from the final text of the bill. But I'm going to insist on a few amendments to the confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u75	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Let's move on. 100th, Dirdin. Don't insist. 101st, Dirdin. Don't insist. Kuzminy, Kovalov, Vlasenko, Batenko, do not insist. Vasilevska-Smagluk, Bakumov. Ionushas, 149th. Don't insist. 196, Maslov, please. Now, Maslov. Then we'll go back to 125, miss something.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u76	When we set up the Bureau of Economic Security, we planned to transfer, take business control functions from all the other bodies to reduce the pressure. The bill suggests that article 209 of the Criminal Code, which is the legalization of property acquired by criminal means, will be able to investigate any law enforcement agency. I think it's wrong. And with my permission, I suggested leaving this article entirely to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau or the Bureau of Economic Security. But I'm not going to bet on it, because it's going to break the contents of the bill. But I ask you to take into account for the future that this article is appropriate to investigate the NABU and the Bureau of Economic Security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u77	Thank you. 125th, Mama. It's partially accounted for. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that my rights are directed more closely at the full list of individuals who are being amended to the articles of the Codex. For example, the article is called “Involvement in the State Actor’s Activities. ” On the second reading, the committee leaves and includes the Attorney General, the director of the BEB, but the anticorruption system also provides for other positions. And with my permission, I propose to include the head of the SAP also in the list of persons who exercise their powers, who perform them, and in the prohibition of interference with the activities of the public official. Because the list of persons involved in the activity of nonintervention will be punished by law, but the head of the SAP somehow does not fall within that position. Please bet on the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u79	You're asking me to put it to a vote. Yeah, so 125 amendments, she was part of the committee. At the same time, the author insists on taking it fully into account. I'm betting on the author's proposal, and I'm asking you to identify yourself and vote. [[11:15:10]] For 112 The decision is not taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. Gregory Mikolaiovich, you will insist on many more because there is no one left but you. All of them? Everyone who's turned away. I got it. Then 129th, Gregory Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u80	Note that changes are being made, and the list of subjects that are being used and applied are specialized, and the State thus provides greater protection in the form of individual articles. If the head of the law enforcement agency is more protective, he is more secure in performing his duties. We want to fight corruption, we want to fight corruption that we still don't understand who we're dealing with, except for FRA. But the article is called "Threat or violence against a public or public actor." And you can imagine, the public figure has this security that this specific article specializes in, and the SAP manager doesn't have. Please consider my work. Not at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u81	Dear Gregory Mikolaiovich, 129th Amendment, is part of the committee, but you insist on taking full account. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:16:59]] For-119 The decision is not taken. The edit remains partially accounted for. Next thing I knew, 135 was like an amendment. Right, Gregory Mikolayovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u82	See, when a bribe is given to an ordinary civil servant, it is one responsibility, it is softer. When a bribe is given to a person whose state status is raised by law is another responsibility. Article 368 of the Criminal Code provides for bribes. But there is a list of persons that the authorities have forgotten to include in this special status in order to get more responsibility. I propose to refer to officials who hold a particularly responsible position, heads and deputies of judges, the Supreme Court of Intellectual Property, as well as advisers and assistants of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister. As for counselors, the State’s first - person helpers, the amendment is taken into account, but with regard to the head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u83	The amendment of 135 of the Mamka People's Deputy is partially taken into account, but the author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:34]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Next thing I know, 212. Right, Gregory Mikolayovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u84	237th.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u85	237th?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u86	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u87	Beautiful. 237th. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u88	This paper says that the State Bureau of Investigation is under investigation. Well, the more defined in the law, the more I ask you to be defined in the law, the less there will be questions about conflicts, unhealthy competition between law enforcement agencies, including the Bureau of Economic Security. The greater the alternative, the less competition and conflict. I'm asking you to include in this article, namely the special procedure for investigating criminal conduct, and the law enforcement officer, and the director. And a deputy, a member of the Economic Security Bureau, because the election office is going through.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, 237 amendments to the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee suggests that this amendment be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:06]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 239. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich. This is your final draft. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u90	It's as far as you call it. Dear National Deputies, note, the State Bureau of Investigation, the procedure applies to (any procedure) the manager and the deputy. The State Bureau of Economic Security only applies to the Director of the Bureau. My standard for reporting suspicions is that a special procedure should be applied to both managers and substitutes. Because each deputy has his own direction, once. The attitude toward the head and deputy is specific in all government authorities. Politicians will now make a political appointment: the leader, from that faction, the leader, from that faction. It is necessary to apply the procedure to all law - enforcement officials: managers and substitutes. Please put my order on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote 239 amendments. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:21:35]] For-69 The decision is not taken. And the final amendment that will apply to confirmation is Bakumova Alexandra Sergiyovich 242.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u92	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I will not insist that we vote on the confirmation of the said amendment. I'm going to the hall and to my colleagues, and please support that bill with those papers that the profile committee has offered you. We've balanced all of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure rules on administrative offences, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'm addressing you, so don't take this into account, and I'll give you confirmation. Still, to support what the committee has proposed: not to destroy the body of the bill and still to adopt it is a responsible decision and to give due process rights to the State Economic Security Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, another national member of the Chorodovs has come. He still insists on three of his amendments. Will you report them in a minute or together? In a minute. Then it's 198. The Chorodov People's Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, please support my order number 198, which determines the additional traceability of the BEB in the event that crimes such as fraud (art. 190), the creation of a criminal organization (art. 255) are committed in the course of a pretrial investigation of a major crime, and there are converts, service negligence (art. 367). I believe that it is not possible to effectively investigate economic crime if crimes such as fraud, the creation of a criminal group and professional negligence are dealt with in parallel by the authorities of the National Police or the DBR, according to the same facts. Please support the 198. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, 198 amendments. She's been rejected by the committee. The author insists that it be taken into account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:49]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. The next amendment to 236, do I get it right? Please, it's cold.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, please support my orders 236 and 238. This is about a special order of criminal conduct and reports of suspicion regarding the director of the BEB and the employees of the BEB. Why are there such standards for NAMK, for the Attorney General's Office, and for the new and only body for combating economic crime? If we really want to create an effective independent body, let's give at least a little guarantee of independence. In our first reading, we accepted such guarantees for the director of the BEB, and after the law enforcement committee had passed, committee regulation No. 235 had been issued, and the guarantees had been revoked. Please support my orders 236 and 238 and then place it on account and do not confirm the 235. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, then I can place these amendments in turn. I'm betting on a vote of 236 amendments to the People's Deputy coldov. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:22]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. And the 238, I'm also betting on the vote, the People's Deputy Cold. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:45.]] For-141 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've been through all the adjustments. But there will be a list of amendments for confirmation. Do I get it right? Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Correction number and then justification.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u98	Regrettably, the basic Baby Law was so frameworkive that it was obvious that colleagues from the law - enforcement committee were trying to level something up. But, colleagues, you're wrong, the baby isn't going to be the only authority to investigate economic crimes, and that's the basic theme that you all have to sound and understand. And the prosecution, and the transfer, and the discovery, and the registration of criminal conduct, and all the work that's been done in the investigation of criminal crimes, is scattered throughout all the services, throughout all the law enforcement agencies that are here today. That was a problem. In the past, vocations have not been able to adopt this draft law, because it is this approach that does not satisfy business, nor should it please you. It was a concept that had to be endured to the end, that the baby was the only body to investigate economic crimes, everything else is just you giving up, you're throwing away business, and in fact they've all figured that out.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote, because this is a confirmation order. Dear colleagues, the 17th amendment, is considered by the committee, but also by confirmation. The committee insists that it be kept under review. So, dear colleagues, the 17th Amendment. Please vote. [[11:27:46]] For 271 Correction confirmed. Next thing I know, 163. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I understand that you need to be explained on the subject, because you are not following. It was just 17 amendments to Article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules, because the first reading of the amendments to Article 185-13 was not considered, we did not analyze or even know why it was done. So it didn't have to be supported, it had to be a separate law amending the Criminal and Procedural Code. Amendment 163. It's 163 that says that when you define a subroutine, you propose manual control. That is, the transfer of the investigation of matters involving the baby may be transferred to any other law enforcement agency for no reason whatsoever. And why are we now saying that the baby can ineffectively investigate? Friends, what organs, do you think, can be investigated exclusively effectively?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the same thing is 163 amendments. She's a committee member. At the same time, our colleagues view it as confirmation. The committee insists on keeping it under consideration. So, Your Honor, please vote in favour of this amendment, please. [[11:29:30.]] For 265 Decision taken. The edit remains counted. The next 180 amendments. Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, how do you change your mind? In the past call, the same MPs talked about the things I've just stressed, and now they've voted for this, in support of this amendment. Shame! So you change your mind like a chameleon. As far as 180 is concerned. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I've shown it there. Predictably, an unwarranted increase in time to resolve the question of the definition of criminal conduct. And that's what the Chief Legal Authority writes about. Please tell us that if criminal conduct is registered by a favorite law enforcement authority, there are no more than three days left for the Attorney General’s Office to transfer this criminal conduct to the BEB investigation. Why you're changing now, you're increasing times.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, it's about 180 amendments, it's taken into account by the committee. At the same time, colleagues are asked to confirm the amendment. The committee remains in the same position to ensure that the amendment remains taken into account. So I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please vote. [[11:31:17]] For 264 Decision taken. The next amendment is 183. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, with respect to you, but here very many amendments were made regarding the exclusion from the articles of Beb’s follow-up article 222-2. Tell me, please, why did you decide that an article called "Manipulation in the Energy Market" should be investigated by not the Beb? In essence, is this an article on economic crime or wrongdoing? Economic. Why did you rule him out? Is this the same article from the underdog? I'm asking you not to support the amendment, 183, so that this article, too, in the context that you've already defined, in that list of articles, is still going to be a baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, 183 amendments to the Osadchuk People's Deputy, are taken into account in an editorial way. The author asks for confirmation of this particular edition in which it was taken into account. The committee insists on keeping it edited. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. [[11:32:49]] For 289 183 revisions are left for editorial consideration. The next 187 amendments. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I'm still asking for an explanation. It's all going to be adjustments that are identical to the one that we've just rejected, you've rejected. This is an exception to article 222-2 of the Criminal Code, which has appeared in the codex since the 20th. And it's very obvious that it has an economic component and it can only be in the baby's wake. I would like to hear from the committee what the deletion of this article is all about. What are your thoughts so that we do not stop at the following amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u107	Please give the committee a brief position.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, there have been many amendments to the committee regarding article 222-2. However, the working group was attended by all the law enforcement agencies, the judicial authorities, the prosecutor’s office. And given the vulnerability of the series of proposed texts of article 222-2 of the Criminal Code, and considering that such a rule is a special norm in relation to article 191 valid, a decision has been taken to resolve the issue of VAT fraud by referring to the Beba of article 191 CC under the condition that the subject of a criminal offence is budgetary compensation. So this is the design that was used in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, 187 amendments made by the national deputy Kožemiakin. She was considered a committee, but her colleagues asked her to be confirmed. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. [[11:35:00]] For 293 Decision taken. Next amendment 190. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u110	I didn't get it out of the explanation, because somehow a colleague from the profile committee went to Article 191 instead of 222-2, and I don't understand my colleagues. Do you think this article is to be investigated by the National Police? In the past, you and I have prepared a list of all the articles that in any way or directly and fundamentally relate to economic crimes, crimes that harm the economic security of the State. All of these articles are to be passed on to the baby. Therefore, I urge you not to exclude article 222-2 from the Bebe.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u111	Thank you, Your Honor. Once again, it's about 190 amendments to the honorable National MP Mamka. She was taken into account by the committee. At the same time, colleagues ask for confirmation. The committee also requests that the amendment be taken into account. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. [[11:36:29]] For 302 The amendment remains counted. Next amendment 193. Nina Petrovna, please, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, with respect to you, all representatives and experts in the work of law enforcement agencies. But once again, this bill does not fully address the issues that this one has posed, and the Supreme Council has passed. Because I've heard here about the baby being created to do that in order to avoid the pressure on business. Yes, the baby is created to ensure that all crimes in the economic sphere are investigated in the same body, so that there is no discretion, the struggle that will be first discovered, criminalized and investigated, because it is the worst piece for all law enforcement agencies. This draft law that we're currently considering, we're not adding that force to the basic basic law, we're not doing exactly the tasks that we've set ourselves. Hence, the exclusion of article 222-2 from the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, 193 amendments to the People’s Deputy, Fries. The committee took it into account, but colleagues are asked to place it on confirmation. So I'm putting amendment 193. Please vote. [[11:38:09]] For 277 Decision taken. Then we have three more repairs to Sergio Vlasenka, and then we're going to go to Nina Petrovna, because you're extremely late. 195th. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman! In fact, as the final article of the Code says today, we're talking about the BEB investigating cases where there's budget compensation for 191. But what I want to remind you is that the 191st item is actually investigating criminal offences, where there's ownership or destruction of foreign property, and budgetary compensation is not property. It's another piece of the Rumple Law School. In fact, your colleague, Holodov, at 195, determined that it could be. The subject of crime is a budget of a hundred times that exceeds and so forth. This is a more correct formulation from a formal legal and technological point of view. Because, once again, budget compensation is not property. So support your colleague coldov's full-scale correction, and we'll resolve the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, 195 amendments to the People’s Deputies of Coldova are partially taken into account. And I'm putting this proposal to the committee, to take part, to the vote. The committee insists that it remain in this office. Please vote. [[11:39:59]] For 276 Decision taken. The amendment remains in the part that is included. Then 197 amendments, it's also partially counted. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u116	Thank you. Colleagues, exactly the same situation. This is the second time we can just fix the situation. Again, 197 amendments, this is an amendment by your colleague Olga Vasilevsky-Smagluk, who, in my opinion, is better written than the final edition. Once again, budget compensation is not property, you write legal nonsense. Ms. Vasilevski suggests that in this case, instead of this "budgetable compensation" there should be written "actions in respect of state funds or state property". It's at least more, not what's more, and it's just legally correct. What you're voting on is a legal abracadabra, which has nothing to do with jurisprudence. This is, once again, this is "ruscavite law school," you're going to correct it again. One month from now, we're going to discuss it again and we're going to fix it, it's completely technical, it's procedural. I understand what you're going to say by this law, but say it right, support Vassilevsky's full-scale amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, 197 amendments. It's partially accounted for. And it's in this editorial, which is part of the committee, that I'm putting it in for confirmation. Therefore, the committee demands that it do so. asks that it remain partially accounted for. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[11:41:50]] For 272 Decision taken. Amendment 197 remains partially taken into account. Sergey Volodymyrovich, while we're taking a break, because there are others going. I'm sorry. Nina Petrovna came in here, 194th, didn't she? Please, 194th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, we have just talked about amendments that are directly related to the 194th amendment. And you're a member of the committee now should explain that it's here in 194 amendments and there's a definition of article 191, which is followed by the Beb's "if the subject of a criminal offence is budgetary compensation." Hence, the clarification is in this article. But here it went on, other articles, if they are not investigated by other authorities. Excuse me, and what other bodies should these articles, which are in the baby’s wake, be investigated? We're going back to the same subject, please pay attention. We don't have a baby solely for economic crime. All law enforcement agencies that have investigated previous economic crimes continue to investigate them. Not enough, there are still discriminatory rules of mass as to the amount being investigated. How do you know?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, 194 amendments, it is part of the committee, and the committee insists that it remain partially accounted for. So I'm putting 194 revisions in an editorial that's part of the committee. Please vote. [[11:43:38]] For 265 Decision taken. The next amendment is 219. Nina Petrovna, this is your final amendment that you're going to make. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u120	Dear colleagues and all who listen and see us, note that this law contains a number of amendments that were made to the second reading in spite of 116 articles. This is precisely the case with the NATIONAL substantiation. Colleagues, another 17 amendments and many others that I didn't call, if in principle the committee comes up there in other cases, in other cases, here, on the contrary, they have done everything they can to ensure that, as Head of the Supreme Council, I address you, contrary to article 116 of the second reading, a number of articles that we have not considered in the first reading are in violation of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And finally I want to say, if this law is adopted today, in fact, the baby will only change the report from the Tax Police to the baby, no substantial work will change, there are no novelties in the undersequent that would ensure the percentage of economic crime per se only for the baby. We'll continue to be hand-in-hand with prosecutors, prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, 219 amendments, are counted by the committee. But the authors. But the distinguished national MPs are asking to put her on the stand. The committee insists on keeping it that way. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[11:45:21]] For 263 Decision taken. We still have two amendments to confirm. Then we go to the vote on this bill as a whole. Please 227 amendments, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. 227 amendments are made to article 246, which provides for order and alteration. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. To my profound conviction, anything that involves inexplicable investigation should be carried out in accordance with the court’s decision. However, an active CPC allows at least to continue the time-limits as decided by the relevant representatives of the judicial investigation bodies. But this list should be at least specific and clear to the users of the CPC, I mean for all users -- both investigators and prosecutors, and lawyers, and the defendants, and so on. But the list that is proposed is completely out of the question. That is, a very wide list of people who can continue for up to 12 months, allowing them to continue watching, listening and so on, and so on and so forth. Outside the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, 227 amendments, she's counted by committee. The committee insists on keeping it under consideration. It's about confirmation. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[11:47:04]] For 253 Decision taken. And the final amendment that will apply to the confirmation is 235th. Please, the Chorodov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u124	It's a committee paper, I'm sorry, I asked her for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 235 revisions. She's listed as a committee, but her colleagues are putting her on the stand. The committee insists on keeping it under consideration. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[11:47:54]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of this bill, and we are moving on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, with your permission, I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act amending administrative and criminal legislation to implement the activities of the Ukrainian Economic Security Bureau (registration number 3959-1). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:48:45]] For 296 Decision taken. Welcome, colleague. The law is passed in general. The next question is 6298. By factions, please show me your apologies. This is a reduction in the terms of consideration of the draft Act on Amendments to Supplements Nos. 1 and No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2021 (for the implementation of infrastructure projects and the development of sociocultural objects) (6298). One minute, just like we always do with the procedure. Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u126	Thank you. My colleagues, yesterday you failed this bill very correctly because it's another affair. In a situation where tariffs are increasing today, citizens' travel costs are increasing, the next affair is, as you know, the Dim Channel, which today is going to finance more than public speaking, and the lobbyists in this room, we know their names, they're trying to create a so-called national carrier. And then not only will corruption schemes be created, but we also know where they're going to be delivered and what airplanes are going to be. And believe me, this information is shocking to you. So we strongly urge you not to take part in the completely lobbyist affairs that don't adorn the party of power that should be in the process of raising the salaries of doctors right now, finding money for the promised "wave thousand" on which there is no money, in fact, in the budget, and allowing this "wave thousand" to be spent on drugs and tests, not on quarterly tickets and gyms. And don't take part.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u127	Thank you. Please, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, well, really, what roads? Well, now we want 2.5 billion who, because of their normal tax work, are in the budget, are going to send an air carrier. Tell me, please, why don't we send money to entrepreneurs who are actually suffering from the coronavirus right now? By the way, the Voice Party, the head of our party, Kira Ruddick, passed such a law. Why don't we send out the vaccine commercial again, which is definitely not enough? Why don't we send money to buy more equipment in the hospital because it's not just oxygen stations? And thank you, Inni Sowsun, for solving this problem. Please tell me why we're not spending this money to reduce the risk of an energy crisis in any way? Well, really, 2.5 billion per road is not just about money, it's about priorities of the state. So I urge everyone not to vote in favour. And if the bill is shortened, I can assure you that we will give you so many rights that you will not be able to see it by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u129	Thank you. Would anyone else please? Nestor Ivanovich, then Dmitri Alexanderovich, and we move to the vote. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! They found 2.5 billion dollars, that's good. But what do you want to spend it on? You want to go back to the asphalt? Well, you don't have a conscience! Is there no other problem than to finance road theft? Please tell me, how is it possible that about 150 billion dollars are being channeled together with government guarantees for road construction, and we need to add 2.5 billion more? So better off, if you find the extra money, let's give it to our doctors, 11,000 doctors died from COVID, let's support them better. If the money is found, you certainly don't have to put it in the asphalt. And who the author is is the head of the "Serve of the People" Party. That's your real policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u131	Thank you. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich Razumkov, then let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u132	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Respectful colleagues have already said that perhaps we do not have the same priorities as the Ukrainian society today. But it's amazing how powerful we're trying to vote the second day in a row for this bill. Firstly, this will not meet the rules of the Rules, because the alternatives will be submitted by the end of the day, and the committee will not be able to do so. And the second question is, let's take priority. We talked today about what really bothers society and what should be the concern of the national MPs, not the question of where to go or how to make money to get somewhere. Let us identify the important aspects of our lives with you: doctors, schools, heating, utilities, what really bothers people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Danilo Alexandrovich, please. And then let's get to the vote. The Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are probably the first authority in the history of our country to be accused of burying money in the road instead of stealing it. This is about the redistribution of the funds that we got from overcoming the revenue part of the government budget, also because we're not stealing, we're collecting taxes. Roads are investments in the future. It's not just roads, it's Big Building, it's made up of schools, it's made up of kindergartens, it's made up of other objects. And we really need to take this as quickly as possible. Why? Because the redistribution has to take place now, or else this money just won't be used in this fiscal year and people won't go. So I suggest you support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to define a draft Ukrainian Act (No. 6298) amending Appendices Nos. 1 and 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2021 (for the implementation of infrastructure projects and for the development of sociocultural objects) and to shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:55:47]] For 240 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, look, we have five minutes left. So there's this proposal, let's say we have this decision No. 0112, this is a ratification decision, can we vote it out? 0112. They insist on talking to their colleagues. All right, then we're not moving in, we're not moving in. Let's go into the next bill, this is Bill 3821, if I'm not mistaken, because I've lost the order of the day. 3821. You're welcome. It's a bill amending the Ukrainian Post Office Act. The Head of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, Negulewski Igor Petrovich, is invited to attend. Dear colleagues, will someone insist on repairs? It's a small bill, there's a small number of amendments. We can vote, right? Dear colleagues, then I propose to the committee to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act (project registration number 3821). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:57:50]] For 263 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to announce a recess for 30 minutes now. And then we meet in the hall at 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, we continue to consider matters of the order of the day. And we are now starting to consider Bills 4353, 4353-1, 4353-2 – this is a draft Law on Postal Liaison and Alternatives to It. Dear colleagues, before we begin this question, I ask you to take your seats. And we have to vote on the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. To do that, I remind you, we need 150 votes. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please take your seats. I would like to remind you once again that I propose to consider the draft Postal Liaison Act and its alternative bills 4353, 4353-1, 4353-2. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:35:43]] For 175 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite the head of the Transport and Infrastructure Committee of Igor Petrovich Negulewski to report. But before you speak. It's student day. And we have the students of the Kiev Heights, they're all vaccinated, they all have access to the Supreme Council. We greet them, wish them goodness, harmony, and inspiration in teaching. You're good! [[Applause]] Now, I give the floor to the head of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure of Negulevski Igor Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u137	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! Law 4353 is aimed at subsidizing national legislation in the field of postal communications in the European Parliament and Council Directive 97/67/EC on common rules for the development of the internal market for social services and the improvement of the quality of service. The draft law proposes to define the legal basis for the provision of postal services, such as the authorization of central executive authorities and national regulators, the rights and responsibilities of postal operators and users of the designated services, and to regulate the principles of the liability of the postal operator and the users of the services in this area. It is also suggested that the operator’s duty to separate income and expenditure, namely, for each universal postal service and separately for other postal services, should be introduced, and that the results of the split income and expenditure should be audited annually. Among other things, the draft law contains provisions on the liability of users, such as damage to mail operators, or third parties by investing in postage of items prohibited prior to relocation, or proper packaging of the transferable deposits, and the liability of the mail operator to the users for failure or improper performance of his or her duties. The committee recommends the adoption of Project 4353 as a basis for the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u138	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Milo Romanović. Igor Petrovich, you can take your place. Please, Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, draft Law 4353-1 is designed to harmonize national legislation with EU legislation in the field of postal services through the implementation of Directive 97/67/EU, which regulates the provision of universal service, which is the responsibility of the State of Ukraine and is delegated by the designated operator of Ukraine. To fulfil Ukraine's international legal obligations in the field of postal communications, namely article 110 of the Association Agreement and article 7 of Directive 97/67/EU, the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act has been adopted and is in force in Ukraine. In accordance with article 17 of the law, all operators, irrespective of the legal form, exercise equal rights and exercise the same obligations, in accordance with Ukrainian legislation, except for the exclusive rights and obligations of the national operator defined by this law. The list of exclusive competences of the national operator is exhaustive and is not subject to extended interpretation. According to part of article 233 of the Ukrainian Customs Code, customs control and customs clearance of goods moving across the customs border of Ukraine in international postal missions are carried out in places of international postal exchange that are determined by postal operators in agreement with the central executive authority, which ensures the formation and implementation of public policy in the field of postal services, and the central executive authority. So the Ukrainian Customs Code provides for the possibility for the operator to identify any form of property, place of international postal exchange and transfer of international postal links. The existing legal regulation of a level playing field in the field of international mail is proposed to be preserved in an alternative project. Given our proposals, the faction of "European Solidarity" is ready to support the existing basic bill 4353 in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u140	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the national deputy of the Ukraine of Zamlocky Marjan Bogdanović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, why did I pass an alternative bill? Because mainly the bill introduces a monopoly on international postal services. I stand firm against any monopolies, and there can't be one in international postal missions either. At the same time, the committee concluded that the second reading of the basic bill would necessarily take into account the position that the impoverishment monopoly would be deleted until the second reading. So based on the committee's conclusion, we, frankly, are members of the committee, and I think it's possible under such a political promise to support the basic version of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand, there is a need to discuss this bill, so please sign up: two in favour, two in favour. The word is given to the national deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u143	Dear Mr. Head, Madam President! Please pass the word to Mrs. Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u144	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, as European Solidarity in the first reading, we will support this bill, because it belongs to one of those who should be approved in order to make us more effective in implementing the real Association Agreement. But at the same time, I would like to point out a few fundamental points that should be corrected for the second reading. In particular, this bill is necessarily in line with the Association Agreement, which requires the conclusion of the Antimonopoly Committee, since it needs to be understood whether or not it distorts the bill’s competitive environment in Ukraine. I hope that the committee will address the Antimonopoly for that conclusion and take into account his observations. Regrettably, this bill also contains a number of inconsistencies in the European Union’s directives and regulations, which must be taken into account in the second reading. It is about taking into account Directive 9767 of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as Directives 2002/39 and 2008/6. All these things were pointed out in the conclusions of our Committee on Integration of Ukraine into the European Union. And if you're serious, colleagues, about Euro-integration, if it's not just a password for you, I hope that we can work out and correct these inadequacies and inaccuracies to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u146	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Schwaczek Anton Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u147	Please pass the word to Negulevski Igor Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u148	Please, Igor Petrovich Negulevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u149	We don't waste time, we vote, we need a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u150	That's a great call. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Germany, Vasil Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u151	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please give the word to a member of the political power of our political power, Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich. I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u152	Shufrech? Nestor Ivanovich, please. The only thing I'm asking for is a quick transmission, because you have half a minute to present your colleagues. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. I think if you analyze what the Supreme Council is doing, it's better to waste time on what the honourable Mr. Germany said than on what they want to vote here. But thank you for your observation. Dear colleagues, look, there's a normal working structure called New Mail. To be honest, I don't know any of them, and I probably won't. Is the family using their services? Yes, it is. No, now they need to take and make life more difficult. So support them! Let's, on the contrary, create conditions for their development. No, by these laws they want to restrict and effectively ban only to allow for the passage of international transport. Why? That's not stately, to be honest. If we are now, come back to USSR, I understand if we want to return to the Soviet Union, when everything belonged to the state, everything was under the control of the state, also a good option. But on the one hand, private entrepreneurs have created a real, beautiful entrepreneurship product, competitive and better than the state branch, really, better. So now these have to be oppressed to get them out and give them money from the state. So, dear colleagues, we think that this bill is not just a lobbyist bill, it's one that is depressing the development of entrepreneurship today. Therefore, our faction will not vote for him, but if you are human servants, if you are human servants, and not human hosts, you are better able to support those who are working today without your help. These are the kind of people we need to support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u154	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u155	Please give the floor to the national deputy Victor Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u156	Victor Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u157	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, the Post Office Act should be adopted. We will support this because it is the harmonisation of our legislation in this area with European legislation, it is the implementation of fully the European Parliament and the Council of Europe directives on these issues, and in fact it will open up an additional path to development for Ukraine. It's an opportunity to become mobile, it's an opportunity to give new services to the population more quickly. To do express delivery services, to do banking services, to enable you to develop internal trade through tools that Skrošta can engage and further implement its activities, both in financial instruments and more self-sustainment, and more operational capabilities. It's probably the path that Krašta is going to take, because we approved this development path back in 2005. And after that, for almost 10 to 12 years, "the horse didn't roll," nobody did anything, only there was a "chard" and a change of ministers after I left, and this bill was then supported by this path of development, and could become one of the most influential postal companies in the world. And only in the last few years has the new management of Krašta been able to bring order to such strategic development as new services, new opportunities, banking, trade, and so forth, allow them to work. Let's support this bill. If there is a note in the New Mail and something else to read, we will carefully read, correct, but today it must be voted on in the first reading. I urge you to support me. This is important for Ukrainian mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u158	The word is given to national deputy Evtushka Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u159	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Three moments that I'd like to talk about, taking into account a little bit of time. First. There's a reform of the General Science and Technology Administration. Our request is not to touch this body, for these people are very clearly, well, deeply involved in providing professional support for all the bills. The other one. As far as the directive is concerned. GNEU itself shows that the application of postal communications does not fall within the scope of EU directives. And the third. Honorable colleagues may have had enough to take in the session hall for an honest word. Let us immediately write in the first reading normal quality bills. For all the reasons I've listed, the "Fatherland" faction is not going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one else has a wish? Please, Clemensa Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! Klimenko, "Justice." I want to say that, of course, we need to implement European directives and make our market clear to the Europeans, and the Europeans are clear to us. But. There's one but. The directive, which is implemented in this bill, has been read so creatively and implemented. That's what my colleague was talking about. Yes, financial transactions, which is in principle not provided by the directive, will now be transferred to postal services. Also, the Ministry of Infrastructure will now have a function such as controlling and overseeing the laundering of revenues and legalizing proceeds obtained illegally, even though this function in legislation is prescribed by the National Bank. There are many other such nuances that need to be corrected for the second reading, so we will not support it in the first. We're going to apply and we're going to correct the second reading, except for all the comments that my colleagues have said before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, everyone has made a statement on this matter, right? People's deputies please take their seats. Let's move on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt the draft Post Liaison Act (project registration number 4353). Ready to vote? Once again, I propose to adopt the draft Post Office Act (registration number 4353). Ready? Please vote. [[12:52:26]] For 267 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Alexander Sergiyovich, some announcements.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u163	Pursuant to article 60, prime. 1 The Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the 9th Interfractional Union "Kyiv Works" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Tishchenko Mikolayovich, was elected head of this association. That's what we're congratulating you on. And according to Bill 3959-1, there were two national deputies. Artem Kunayev of the "Serial of the People" faction asks that his vote be counted in favour. And Mr. Lukashev from the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" asks that his voice be counted "against".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u164	One is one. Dear colleagues, there was a prior communication with the factions' heads, and yet we found an understanding. There's a proposal, Alexander Sergiyovich, if you don't mind, Bill 0112, this is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement "Logistic Network (Modernization and Digitalization of Ukraine)" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, now to consider and vote on this issue in this room. Do you mind? Therefore, dear colleagues, I propose to the committee to adopt the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement "Logistic Network (Modernization and Digitalisation of Ukraine)" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (project registration number 0112) Ready to vote? Please vote. [[12:54:19]] For 305 Decision taken. It's been accepted in general. Dear colleagues, let's move on. The next bill, this second reading, is a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine to clarify notary access to the Single National Demographic Register (second reading). I invite the head of the committee's committee on legal policy, Francis Igor Pavlovich, to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, will anyone insist on their amendments? No one will insist. Thank you, Igor Pavlovich. Therefore, dear colleagues, I propose to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to clarify the procedure for accessing notaries to the Single National Demographic Register (project registration number 3989). Please vote. [[12:55:40]] For 294 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, colleagues. The following bills are 5881 and 5881-1. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on the dissemination of anti-corruption legislation in the area of members of the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund, the Ukrainian National Social Insurance Fund in case of unemployment, the Pension Fund, members of the Supervisory Board of the Pension Fund and responsible officials. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:56:41]] For 249 Decision taken. I invite the president of the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee Anastasia Olegovna Radina. Please give me four minutes, because it's from the authors of the two bills and the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u165	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The bill proposes to extend the declaration regime and, accordingly, other restrictions of the Anti-Corruption Act, including restrictions on conflict of interest for the following persons: the Pension Fund's administration, the Social Insurance Fund's administration, the Social Insurance Fund's administration, and the Supervisory Board of the Pension Fund and the Pension Fund's employees and the Social Insurance Fund. Why, colleagues, is this important? Now these three funds are getting budget money. For example, the Ukrainian Pension Fund received more than 200 billion dollars of grants from the state budget. The management of these funds approves decisions on budget acceptance, on depositing of free funds, on control of the purpose of using these funds, on the use of the reserves of these funds, i.e. they actually approve decisions on which citizens can receive pensions and receive social insurance for many years in advance. I have a question: what is it if it's not government authority? These are government powers, and the people who exercise these powers are required to submit declarations should act within the limits of the Anti-Corruption Act. Unfortunately, for the time being, most of these people are operating outside the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act and this is an abnormal situation, colleagues. Accordingly, colleagues, I am very much asking for the support of Bill 5881-1, Bill 5881, to be rejected. And on behalf of the copyright team, colleagues, I have to say that the copyright team doesn't object. And, colleagues, from the committee, I'm informing you that the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee at its meeting has considered these two bills. He considered the positive conclusions of Bill 5881-1 from the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Ministry of Justice, and recommended that the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee adopt Bill 5881-1 as a whole. Thank you very much, colleagues, and I very much ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u166	Thank you, Anastasia Olegna. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss these bills? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u167	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, please pass the word to Mrs. Friz Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u168	Please, Irina Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" will support Bill 5881-1 in the first reading, given that it is, in fact, designed to remove the gap in anti-corruption legislation and, accordingly, to extend the anti-corruption law to persons who are part of the governing body of the funds mentioned above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u170	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bogdanac Andrija Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u171	Please pass on the word "Loshenec" to Oleni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u172	Please, Olena Fraud.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, please support this bill, this is a very important initiative in the field of anti-corruption legislation. We do what our very active and experienced followers have not done to us. Please tell me, why aren't the billions of dollars and the administrations that run these billions of dollars still giving out declarations? We have to remove it, we have to protect our citizens. So please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u174	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kacny Alexander Stalinolenovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u175	Please pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u176	Pass it on, please. Natalia Yuriovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, we are now dealing with a question that will not really improve the social situation in our country. That doesn't increase people's pensions, social benefits don't normalize. And I want to remind you that we haven't been paid today by hospitals all over the country, starting in July and August. Why don't we take a quick look at how to get people to pay them to the hospital? Or maybe we should just get together and figure out how to review people's pensions. You realize that there are 3 million pensioners in the country today receiving a pension of up to 2,000 dollars. And now you're spending time in Parliament to distribute declarations. That's good, spread it, let them declare it, but just be honest. Why is it that foreigners who are members of supervisory boards in various state corporations today do not fill out a declaration and are not subject to anticorruption legislation? And here you are today looking for this little girl in the hay. That's why we demand, our team requires you to urgently consider the relevant social issues: how to account for the hospital's debts, the specific ones, and how to give money and review and index pensions to people during the pandemic. It's not like we're doing social work here in Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u178	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy, Lubinec Dmitry Valeriyovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u179	Please pass the word Speedy Annie.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u180	Anna Speedboat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, we don't mind everyone making declarations. But there is one question. The bill contains a worldwide flaw that runs counter to the very status of the Social Insurance Fund and the Pension Fund as defined in the legislation. The idea is that the bill compares the Social Insurance Fund of Ukraine and the Pension Fund to the public authorities. But according to the laws of Ukraine governing these funds, they are not profitable, nor do they exercise the very powers of authority on behalf of the State. And they are non-commercial self-governing organizations that operate on the basis of statutes that are approved by the governments of the funds. Thus, the bill itself is already in conflict with a number of laws in force today. In addition, let us not forget that it contains significant risks of ambiguous interpretation of anti-corruption legislation, especially in the part of the expansion/non-proliferation of members of the Social Insurance Fund, the National Voluntary Social Insurance Fund of Ukraine in case of unemployment, the Pension Fund, members of the Supervisory Boards of the requirement to transfer to another person their business and corporate rights. After all, the foundation consists of persons who perform their duties on public grounds. That's why we think that this bill needs to be worked out first and then put into the session room. In the first reading, we will not be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u182	I invite you to the words of Michael Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, the "Fatherland" faction. And then, dear colleagues, let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u183	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Fatherland faction supports the legislative initiative on the declaration of income and expenditure of persons who are members of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, the Social Insurance Fund, are clearly those who are authorized by law to manage and control state funds. And this once again tells us that if there's a professional basis for scientific and scientific management, then the bills can be made more professional. That's what 5881-1 says, this is what we're going to be supporting. But then we look forward to other initiatives regarding the oversight councils of Naftogaz Ukraine, Ukraine, Ukraine, Ukraine, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u184	Thank you. Even so, they showed their wish to Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich and then to Julia Klimenko, and we move on to the vote. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u185	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, the position of the MP group "Trust" is next. We recognize that anti-corruption legislation needs to be extended to the maximum extent possible to the circle of officials who perform important governmental functions. And we certainly agree, among them, with the members of the Government of the Fund for Social Insurance of Ukraine, the Fund for Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment, the Pension Fund, including, this has been highlighted separately, and certainly, by the Board of Trustees and other officials who perform similar functions for the benefit of the State. That's why the Trust MPs will vote and support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u186	And please, Jurczyn, and then we'll go to the vote. Please, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u187	Jurchisin Jaroslav, Justice Union. Let's first dissipate certain, let's say, myths about the members of the Supervisory Boards of Internationalists. God forbid our law enforcement agencies should investigate their assets as they are being investigated by virtually foreign authorities. So these are very different positions. It's about the bill. As recommended by the committee, it is desirable to support it as a whole. Why? This is a technical bill that clearly regulates that people who influence the use of public finances under anti-corruption legislation and their logic are actually declared. So the proposal is to support on the whole and not spend on the de facto technical laws of the extra time that costs taxpayers money. I'd like to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear colleagues, everyone has said, let's move on to making a decision. As has already been said, it has been suggested that the bill should be adopted as a basis and as a whole. But first I'm going to lay the groundwork, and then, if there's no objection, I'm going to put it in general, if there's a denial, let's cut the line. There'll be objections, won't there? All right, the objections will be, and then we'll cut the lines. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt, on the basis of the necessary technical and legal rights, Bill 5881-1. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act to extend the law to the members of the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund, the National National Insurance Fund for Unemployment, the Pension Fund, the Pension Board of the Pension Fund and the relevant officials. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:10:28]] For 292 Decision taken. Natalia Yuriovna, I am addressing you personally. See what kind of unanimity support there is. Let's not stretch it out and still try to accept it as a whole, Natalia Yuriovna. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't you want that? Look, guys, I can't, if one faction against, I can't. Natalia Juryovna, here's information from the committee's head, that over the declaration of aliens, they have a separate legislative act. Let's vote on this piece of legislation and concentrate better on that piece of legislation so that we don't stretch work on a really important piece of legislation. Let's do it. Okay? Out of procedure, Natalia Yuriovna, one minute, I hope for your wisdom and tolerance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, I will once again point out that unfortunately this bill is not distributed to foreigners who are also members of state-owned enterprises in the supervisory boards. And that's why we're proposing to the second reading to write this rule so that we really already have all of us on boards, in foundations, in scaffolding stations there, in other of our big corporations, that this standard should be distributed to all of us, and then that's really fair. But if we are making only partial decisions now, it is not a very fair decision. So if you insist, let's look at it and accept it as a reduced procedure for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u190	Thank you. Please, Radina Anastasia, after this Sobolev, after this Jurchishin. Maybe we'll still try to convince you, because there's a separate bill there, I think, even I'm a co-author. I'm also a proponent of opening things up, but let's not put these things together, so that people start to declare, it's important to us. Please, Radina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! I want to inform you that there is a bill in the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee (registration number 6071), which he is talking about declaring foreigners on the Supervisory Boards and the committee is working with this bill. Unfortunately, colleagues, in this bill, which we have just adopted in the first reading, it is impossible to regulate the position on the declaration of aliens. Why? Because of the need to change significantly more applicable law rules so that this declaration of aliens would have no purpose to verify it, and in the decision of the committee for the first reading it did not allow for the amendment of article 116 of the Rules to the second reading of other articles. We still can't solve the problem you're talking about by this bill. Please give the committee the opportunity to make this quality a different bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u192	Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, then Juršin and then again, Natalija Jurijovna, if you will, we will vote and we will work on the bill. Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u193	Sobolje, Fatherland. The Fatherland faction and our deputies are co-authors of the bill, which allows and obliges, at last, to declare their statistics to all those on the supervisory boards, including NAC Naftogaz, and other state companies, regardless of whether they are foreigners or Ukrainian citizens. Our proposal from the faction to support now as a whole, to vote in favour of this bill. And with regard to that bill, let's immediately vote and put it into the agenda. And then we're going to take out all the speculation around this issue. I think all our colleagues will accept that offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u194	Thank you. Please, national deputy Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u195	Jaroslav Jurchisin, “Justice. ” We actually don't have the opportunity to add anything right now because we haven't voted for the second article of 116, so it's really just going to be a delay. And with regard to the proposal to put the bill into the agenda and so forth, already this bill before the committee, it was not considered this week just because, unfortunately, the co-author was not present at the committee meeting. Therefore, additional voting is, in principle, necessary. So I ask you to vote in general and close this technical question. I very much hope Mrs. Natalia will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u196	Natalia Yuriovna, don't you agree? Thank you for understanding. As a matter of fact, we can't vote now, we'll include it if there's a committee for next week. Let's get out of this this way. So I thank everyone very much for the compromise, you see, Parliament is a place for discussion, for making wise decisions. So I thank all who made wise decisions today. Dear colleagues, then, with your permission, I propose to the committee to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act to extend the law to the members of the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund, the Ukrainian National Social Insurance Fund for Unemployment, the Pension Fund, the Supervisory Board of the Pension Fund and the relevant officials (draft 5881-1). Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:16:25]] For 305 Decision taken. Thank you very much, dear colleagues. Are you out of procedure? Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović, please, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u197	Dear Mr. Head, first of all, I would like to respond to those colleagues who called on us to make proposals solely to the text of the law. And I would like to remind you, and your leader of the vast majority, when he amends the law between the first and the second readings, which have nothing to do with the text of this law at all, what is it then called? Where were you with your 116 article, why were you then silent about it, and nobody here opened their mouths except for the opposition factions? This time. The other one. As for those bills you're proposing. You deliberately do not put in draft laws that apply to external administration. You will not touch these members of the Watch Tower Society who are foreigners. So my suggestion, if you have just consolidated the room on this issue, is to ask questions for the next Tuesday, and then let us consider this question to put an end to this external administration and to these non-experts who have taken part in the supervisory boards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u198	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the following bills. These are bills for registration numbers 6192, 6192-1. This is a draft law amending article 39 of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of the Population against Infectious Diseases to address the issue of social protection for victims of coronary disease (COVID-19) of health care professionals of all forms of property. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. We need to get 150 votes. Therefore, I ask the people's deputies to vote. [[13:18:29]] For 260 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Michael Borisovich Raduccik. Four minutes from the authors and from the committee, do I understand? [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand. Well, then two minutes, then Natalia Yuriovna, then you two minutes. Please, Mikhailo Borisovich Raducci.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u199	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 39 of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Population from Infectious Diseases on the Settlement of Social Protection for Victims of Coronary Diseases (COVID-19) of Health Care Services for All Forms of Property (Registration No. 6192), authored by 49 National Deputies. Over the course of the year, medical personnel in the nonstate medical sector and members of the family who had died of COVID medicine, whose disease and death are related to professional duties, have repeatedly addressed the committee. Today, according to the current legislature, the State has provided insurance payments in case of the establishment of a disability or death group resulting from COVID-19 in the event of medical illness only to public and municipal health institutions. At the same time, health - care professionals working as FOPs face the same risks when medical care is provided. They work as well as doctors in public utilities, under contracts with Ukraine’s National Health Service for cod bags, and pay the taxes specified in the Ukrainian Tax Code to the budget. In view of this, I believe that health workers who join in providing medical care to patients with COVID-19, regardless of where they work, should have the same social guarantees from the state. Please support and accept the bill (registration number 6192) as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u200	The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Royal Natalia Yuriovni, the authors of the alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, we continue the carnival of good intentions. I've studied Mr. Raduccik's bill very carefully, and it has very beautiful, nice standards, as we're going to provide social insurance for all health workers, regardless of the form of ownership and employed workers. But, Your Honor, let's open our eyes to what's going on in the country today. Today, those who are standing next to the bed of the Coroners all the time. Those who are being treated, people who are suffering from this disease, don't get 300 percent of the promised allowance. Family doctors on the phone all day long trying to save the lives of our citizens do not receive an allowance at all. Today, the NHRI, your favorite NHRI, has not been counted with hospitals for bags in August. for vaccination protocols. Today, unfortunately, NZU has not been able to index cod packets, and unfortunately, today is not enough to cure the patient today. Today, unfortunately, hospitals are forced to burn these coins and divide what kind of heat, what kind of light, what kind of oxygen, at the expense of whom to go get the vaccine to make today’s vaccine. Dear, well, maybe it's enough to experiment on Ukrainian citizens. And today we need to make urgent decisions, an anti-crisis decision to save people, not to promise another social one.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u202	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. I invite you to take the floor to announce the conclusion of the committee of the Head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Michael Borisovich Raduccik. Please, Mikhailo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u203	The basic bill 6192 proposes to extend the right to receive insurance payments in case of disability or death from COVID-19 provided for in article 39 of the Act. The bill supports the MoH of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office also supports the general direction of the bill. Bill 6192-1 suggests further granting the right to such insurance payments to teaching and teaching staff in educational establishments. At the same time, it is suggested that this disease be likened to a professional disease. In addition, the bill provides for an additional 100 percent of the salary for quarantine payments. The Ministry of Health of Ukraine supports the basic bill 6192. Unlike health workers who provide daily care to patients with COVID-19, the work of pedagogical workers is not related to daily work with the sick. It is not right to compare pedagogical illness to occupational illness, since it is not related to his professional duties. In view of the designated committee, it proposes to adopt Bill 6192 as a basis and generally as a law, by entrusting the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to carry out its technical and legal work in preparing it for the Head's signature. Reject the bill's registration number 6192-1. Please support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u204	Thank you. Dear colleagues, come on, maybe without discussion we can vote on this bill. Is there a need to discuss? Come on, write it down: two in, two in. Write down those who want to discuss it. Please. The word is given to Galini Ivanovni Vasilchenko, a faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u205	Please give us the word of Olga Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u206	Olga Stefanisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u207	Olga Stefanishin, “Justice. ” Dear colleagues, do you know how many doctors have reported that they were infected and disabled or even died of COVID-19 in Ukraine all the time? 800. Do you know how much you got paid? 200. And I'm not surprised by those numbers. Because I've been personally choosing literally money from the state for Igor Hyde's son, a dead doctor from Chercas from COVID-19. He went to the commission, was tried by the state not to give him the money. He won the court only a year after his father died. It's embarrassing. So, of course, we have to do everything we can to make our doctors' lives easier, but the executive powers, and the ministries, and the State Social Insurance Fund, have to help doctors, not do what they do. So this Law 6192 is, of course, to be supported in the first reading. But second, what I'd like to say is that these payments are given to doctors in case of disability or death, and this has been very relevant all last year. But colleagues, disability, and death can be easily prevented by vaccination. That is why I want to say something else to our doctors and to the Ministry of Health. Vaccination is really a question of the expertise of our doctors. And I would like 100 percent of doctors in Ukraine to be vaccinated, and we shouldn't be talking about the disability and death of doctors anymore, because doctors would be protected from COVID-19. So please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u208	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Polack Vladislav Mikolajovich, MP of "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u209	Please pass the word to Bilozer Larissa Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u210	Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, Larissa Bilozer, 17th constituency, Winnitzkin, Trust Group. In fact, our parliamentary group will support this bill, it is very correct, it is also added to the death of medical personnel to families and disability, including primary workers, FOPs, and not only public and municipal health institutions, but also private ones. But what I'm saying is, in the spring, we passed a bill that allowed families of medics to get compensation, and families like this were like the ATOs that died, and they were going to get 1.5 million dollars. What do we have today? Under the law, officials have so bureaucraticized this process that only 8 percent of the medical families who died of COVID have been paid off. Minsoc reports about 30 percent, but consider, they've prescribed a regulation so that it's practically impossible to prove that you're sick at work. Not enough, if there is no PLR, the investigation is not even conducted by the State Department. I have a violent incident in the district where Mikola Kirichenko, who led the sanepidemic service in Tulchin, was burned in three days. He did not get a copy of the protocol, P.L.R., and the family did not get a penny. We asked the President to make a commission at least. They set up a commission and decided, for such a sublaw of the MOH that no payment was necessary. So, colleagues, note how social security officials, the State Department, and the ministries work. They do everything they can to ensure that they do not receive the family’s expenses. It needs to change and enter all the testing: both the testing of the express, and the IFA, to prove it, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u212	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ljuboti Dmitry Valeriovich, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u213	Please pass the word to Lady Bullach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u214	Lady Bullach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, there's really nothing to discuss. Indeed, we, as national MPs, should exercise control over the effectiveness and timeliness of these state aids to those who, today in the advanced war with the coronavirus, protect every sick person every day and try to provide him with medical care, despite the risks around doctors today, do exist. But the bill isn't about that today, the bill, it's small, each of us could get to know him in two minutes. We're cleaning out only two adjectives and this radically changes the possibility of receiving this state aid to any doctor who, as a result of a professional disease with the coronavirus, has been disabled or, unfortunately, has gone out of his life, then the family is already receiving this state aid. And this bill creates a level playing field for all health workers regardless of the form of ownership of the medical institution. Today, doctors and health - care workers can receive such assistance only in government or municipal health institutions. Thanks to today's vote, we will create a level and transparent environment for receiving this state aid to doctors and health workers, and to individuals who are entrepreneurs, and to those who work with private workers, respectively, and to those who work in communal forms of property and state forms of property in any hospitals and clinics. It is our responsibility and our guarantee, and our gratitude, and the provision of financial assistance to every doctor and health - care worker. I very much ask everyone to support and vote both in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u216	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Papiev Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Natalia Juryovni Kraljevska is passing it on, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" supports both the first and the alternative bill. But again we urge you to help people today in order to live, not just to help when a person dies or gets disabled. That is why we urge you to pay 300 percent of doctors, medical personnel, family doctors, those who work for the front desk today. We urge you to increase the funding of our hospitals today. Allow doctors to purchase medicines that are truly in need of the sick today. Allow the NSOs today to settle their debts to doctors, index COVID packages. Today, give a person who has become ill in our country the right to survive and receive medical treatment. And unfortunately, this bill doesn't solve it. And when the government makes decisions to ban people from working and deprive them of their right to work, if a person is unvaccinated, when today you're disposing of people when a person is unvaccinated, I think we should urgently appeal to the government to cancel that decision. Such repressive methods cannot work in a democratic country. To motivate people, to create real vaccination sites, to give people the opportunity to get vaccinated -- yes, that's right. But you can't repress people. And our team is going to court to reverse this anti-corruption order of forced vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, one more performance is Sofia Romanovna Fedina, one minute. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. Please. Sofia Romanovno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u219	The European Solidarity faction, yes, will support this specific bill. But if we're really talking about doctors' rights, about how they feel about themselves being protected, it's not really there today. And so it takes a lot of humiliation on the part of doctors to prove that they had a coronary disease that resulted from a coronary disease. And families also have to fight for acknowledging that their parents and sisters died from the Coronavirus. And that's absolutely wild. But I would also like to point out that this issue requires a complex solution. And here, first of all, a daily bill of 6006 "European Solidarity" is to be put in order, which provides for additional payments to doctors and additional allowances. Similarly, there is a need to increase the salaries of medical personnel, who have a violent outflow. And I also want to remind you that it's the "ministers of the people" who in some strange way didn't want to pay the doctors in case of illness, not just when they become disabled or die. So today we need to think.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u220	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please take their seats. I'm making a proposal to the committee. The committee's proposal is on the basis and in general. But I put it on the ground first, then, if there's no objection, in general. I therefore propose to the committee to adopt a draft Act amending article 39 of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of the Population against Infectious Diseases to address the issue of social protection of victims of coronary disease (COVID-19) of health care professionals of all forms of property (Law No. 6192). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:36:33]] For 313 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, no objection to putting it all together? Then I propose the adoption of a draft Law amending article 39 of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Population from Infectious Diseases on the Settlement of Social Protection for Cronaviral Diseases (COVID-19) for health care workers of all types of property (project registration number 6192). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:37:18]] For the 320. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Next registration number for Project 5736. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to regulate the provision of patients with compassionate medical devices. Maybe we should vote it out. Please. We can vote, right? Okay. Dear colleagues, then I'm putting the matter under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:38:11]] For 256 Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Valery Alexandrovich Zuba. Please, People's Deputy Dent.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u221	Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Your Honorable People's Deputies! Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of patients' provision of compassionate medical devices. This bill amends the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices, as well as the basics of Ukrainian legislation on health protection. The world’s so - called compassionate or humanitarian remedy has long been in operation. It is used for free treatment of patients with severe illness with medications in clinical trials. Practice shows that the vast majority of pharmacology companies continue to treat the patient for free after completion of clinical trials. This is a gratitude to a person for being involved in the study of an innovative drug. Currently, there is no clear mechanism in Ukraine that would allow patients with severe illness to access innovative medicines that are not yet widely available in the Ukrainian market, but can now save and improve the lives of Ukrainian patients. Such mechanisms are already in place in other developed countries, including the European Union and the United States. In order for Ukrainian patients to have access to the most advanced drugs, the bill is registered. The bill proposes to establish at the level of the law programmes within which patients for medical purposes can provide unregistered medical devices free of charge in Ukraine, as well as the order and conditions for their application. Empathy medications are practically designed as humanitarian aid for patients with severe illness. Dear colleagues, as a doctor-oncologist, I would like to emphasize.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u222	Thank you. Thank you very much. A coreporter, head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Mikhailo Borisovich Raducci, is invited to attend. Please, Mikhailo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u223	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! At its meeting, the Supreme Council Committee on Health considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Settlement of Patients’ Empathy (Registration No. 5736). The bill aims to create a legislative basis for ensuring that patients with severe illness in Ukraine have access to innovative treatment through free-of-charge treatment programmes. The possibility of using drugs with compassion is provided by European Union legislation EU regulation 726/2004. The Ministry of Health supports the bill and makes sound suggestions to it that can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council has made a number of comments, which members of the committee believe can also be worked on in preparing the bill for second reading. In support of the necessary creation of the legislative basis, the Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft law registration number 5736 as a result of the first reading to be adopted on the basis of the need to make further amendments to it in accordance with the provisions of the Ministry of Health and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council to other structural parts of the legislative acts of Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine that were not considered in the first reading but related to the subject of its legal settlement in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council Regulation. Thank you for your attention. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u224	Thank you. Please, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Boris Viktorovich, deputy group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u225	Please pass the word to Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u226	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Larissa Bilozer, Winnitzkin, Trust Group. Indeed, this bill we actually allow for the use in Ukraine of drugs, clinical outcomes, and it can be both positive and negative, which is not proven. Yet, for many patients who are seriously ill, this gives the final hope. At the same time, we should keep in mind that by consenting to such medications, the patient is actually removing responsibility from the manufacturer for possible consequences. But we should also remember that today we have 1 million 187 thousand cancer patients, and most of them have a very difficult run. For them, therefore, the drugs of compassion are their last chance at life. And this law suggests that we use unregistered medical devices and free of charge. And it is very important that it is those medical devices that are undergoing clinical trials in the United States, Switzerland, Canada, Japan. And we also introduce appropriate terminology into legislation. So I think we should give patients the right to decide for ourselves and understand the risks and support this innovative good bill that I think will give many Ukrainians a chance to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u227	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Nagajevski Artem Sergiyovich, faction of "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u228	Thank you. Please pass the word to Sergey Kuzminy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u229	Please, Sergey Kuzminy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u230	Good afternoon, dear fellows! What is this law about? This is a law on the lives of patients who are not able to get a cure in Ukraine for reasons because they are not registered in Ukraine or are still in research. But this study has already shown its first effectiveness in curing the disease. When there are no alternative drugs in Ukraine or in the world, this is the only chance for serious patients. European legislation allows pharmaceutical companies to provide such drugs out of compassion for the sick, and this is done with the consent of the patients themselves and with the constant supervision of doctors. So, colleagues, I am very much asking you to support this bill. I think it's very important to our sick Ukrainians. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u231	Thank you. Please, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u232	Please pass the word to colleague Konstankevich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u233	Please, Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u234	Dear People's Deputies, the Group "For the Future as Magi Deputies, of course, supports this bill. Moreover, we welcome him. And we think it's not what's on time, it's long overdue. Arguments. First of all, it's that the number of people who are seriously ill in the country has not yet been accounted for, but we can definitely say that they are increasing. And in the context of the pandemic, the number of these severe diseases is already projected to be over 2 million. That's the first thing. It's a different situation. This is what the State unfortunately does not provide to those who are sick. And so using the metaphor that it's a bill of last hope, I'd say it's a bill of one hope. And that is why we certainly support everything that provides help to specific people and, in this case, to specific patients. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u235	Thank you. The Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, the Voice faction. After that, Jan Zinkewicz, and we move on to the vote. Please. And the Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u236	Roman Lozinski, “Justice. ” Please pass the word Oli Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u237	Olya Stefanisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u238	Olga Stefanishin, “Justice. ” My colleagues, I am the co-author of this bill, and I think this is one of the most progressive steps that the Supreme Council can take today on the circulation of medical supplies in Ukraine. We're saying that this bill is called "Accessing medicines to patients with compassion." Why Out of Compassion? Many here have talked about the fact that this is really the last hope for patients with severe illness to receive medication, because ordinary medicines no longer help them, they need special medicines. This practice is really being used in many countries of the world, and Ukraine is finally grown up before we can help such patients in Parliament today. I personally, working many, many years in the health system and in patient organizations, saw people die because they didn't have access to such drugs. They die in Ukraine, in other parts of the world they do not die, they are given medical care, and they are treated. So, of course, let's vote yes. And please support this very important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u239	Thank you. Please Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u240	Thank you. Of course, I agree with all my colleagues, there are risks in this bill that some clinical research on one or the other clinical drugs may be unsuccessful. But we need to understand that we have tens of thousands of seriously ill citizens who are now not even provided with minimal medical care, in fact just supporting their lives, and this law will give them a chance to recover. Yes, it may be a small chance, or, for example, to prolong their lives, to ease their pain. That's why it's extremely important, it needs to be supported, despite the risks, and we're going to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u241	Please, Royal Natalia Yuriovna, and then we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, you know, it's very sad to hear that today Parliament is registered in what it can no longer do on its own: it can't help people, it can't give people medicines that are available, it can't really make them available to people, it can't take care of our sick people. And so they're offering to do clinical research on yet unrecognizable devices in the world in Ukrainians. It's a very serious and very important bill, because for clinical trials, corporations usually pay crazy money. And here we don't hear anything about it: who got the money to do it in the country, which is the clinical trial in the Ukrainians, why these countries don't get the right to clinical trials. So we have a lot of questions before this bill, and our team is not going to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, we've concluded our discussion, we're moving on to making a decision. I propose to the committee to adopt, on the basis of a proposal by the committee, to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for the second reading in accordance with the first part of article 116 of the Rules, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to regulate the provision of compassionate medical devices to patients (project registration number 5736). Ready to vote? Please vote. [[13:51:42]] For 293 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two political factions with a break and a replacement for the performance. People’s deputies, Lesia Zabranna, are invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u244	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians, the honorable squires! The news of an increase in public transportation in Kiev was two and a half times really shocking to every Ukrainian and not just a cyanide. KMDA reports that from the New Year’s Eve, if a one - time ticket for public transportation is purchased, people now have to pay 20 dollars. Are they agreeable to such changes? We're all seeing that nobody cares about the infrastructure of Kiev. Kiev is in hold, there is no quality transport service. People find it extremely difficult to get to work. Now imagine that the inhabitants of Troy and the Vineyard, where they have been promised a subway branch for years, have to pay 80 dollars to get to work. That is how the Kyiv authorities today, just when there is actually a pandemic, many people have problems with their work, in large numbers showing their attitude toward China, showing their disrespect for people. In all of this, we see an increase in the value of the construction of the Shulyavian tour, four times, we see the legendary Post-Rescene City, which is expensive, but it's not being built. What does all of this indicate? This indicates that corruption today strikes into the pockets of simple averages. And so the authorities, the Kyiv authorities, today show total contempt. We, the political party "The Servant of the People" in Kiev and the representatives in parliament, will definitely initiate the non-admission of the increase in the cost of tariffs. In addition, we will initiate a full audit of public transport and full audit of what is going on with the Kyiv Metro. We're going to show the Chinese, we're going to show all of Ukraine where the money goes, and in fact, now everyone has to pay for someone to clean up the money. We won't let that happen in Kiev. And we will not allow this shameful example in all of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u245	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, we are continuing our meeting. Let's move on to issues 5685, 5685-1, 5685-d. This is a draft law amending article 42 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the publication and monitoring of the achievement of the objectives of higher education institutions (CPIs). Dear colleagues, there is an offer to consider this issue in short. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've got to vote on the shortened procedure, let's go. [[B in m in s a l in]] Beautiful. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to consider these issues in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:56:18]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one second, there was an agreement between colleagues that we would consider this issue, just by giving the floor to the reporter of Pipi Natalia Romanovni, and then we would move on to the vote. Is there no objection? So, dear colleagues, if we're going to stop somewhere, I'm going to go on for a while, but until the end of this question. Please, Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u246	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear Ukrainians, with Student Day. Thank you, in fact, for the support of most factions, it was my idea that was supported and developed by the university. And I'll explain briefly why he's needed. These are four major ratings from international universities. Do you know what Ukraine's highest place is there? 501st. Do you know how many universities have gone to world ratings, and we have more than 200 in the country? Just, like, nine. This bill is another step for our international university ratings to rise. This bill is that the rectors are not just supposed to report publicly, but they have to report on performance indicators that they've achieved in a year and performance indicators that have been able to reach the university in a year. And it has to be in easy access to the site so that anyone who's willing can look at how a university, its academic work, and its scientific work is developing. So I thank everyone who understands that this situation is the sadness and grief of the current Ukrainian higher education that we are all changing with you, firstly, the bill that we voted in September 19th that changed the approach to funding universities; secondly, the unlocking of the work name. And that's step three, and they're still going to be next. Our committee very much thanks you for supporting the necessary things to improve Ukraine's higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u247	Thank you, Natalia Romanovna. Dear colleagues, we agreed not to discuss the matter. Nestor Ivanovich, we're voting, right? Nestor Ivanovich, we can't make it. Give me a minute, Nestor Ivanovich, will you? And let's go to the vote. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u248	Mr. Head, we will certainly not hold back the process, but, look, with no publicity, there is no freedom of speech in the country, and acceleration includes. Michael's finished badly, you know the one I'm talking about. So I'm asking you for these principles of law next time. Don't be hasty. It has been accelerated so that these turbines really cost the state a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u249	Nestor Ivanovich, I think, after this bill there was a common agreement between all the factions, and that's why I made such an offer that was supported in the hall. But I thank you for this position. Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to the committee to adopt Bill No. 5685-d, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the publication of the annual report of the head of the higher education institution, the head of the higher education institution and the targets of the higher education institution. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[14:00:08]] For 293 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, your committee gave it as a foundation. Dear colleagues, can we vote on it as a whole? Okay. Dear colleagues, then let's do it before I close the plenary session, so let me make an offer. I would like to make an offer to accept in general, in the second reading and in general, the draft of the Law on. adopt the draft Law amending the article as a whole. Yes, about amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act to publish the annual report of the head of higher education and targets. [[B in m in s a l in]] See, the faction of OPCW against. Guys, come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute is the procedure. Please, who's it going to be? Coltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u250	Ruslan Alexiyovich, look, you can vote now. But when you say a faction against it, you now have no moral right to dictate to the Supreme Council that you will vote. You don't have any more mono size, once. Sociology shows you don't have your electoral support, you blew it. You have no right. And most importantly, 71 percent of Ukrainian citizens say that the country is moving in the wrong direction. You have no moral right to tell who supports who does not. Ukrainian citizens do not support your tariff, economic, budget and other policies. That's what I wanted to tell you. And you can vote on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-11-17-m0.u251	Very powerful backing, which concerns procedural issues of Bill 5685-d. I just want to draw your attention to the Rules, too. That's why I'm voting to adopt Bill 5685 as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, guys, dot. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed.
