ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies please prepare for electronic registration. I'm reminding you that once the registration is started, it's necessary to hold the sensor button, press the "Z" button and hold it until the end of the registration, that is, before the results appear on the board. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:06:03]] There are 121 national deputies registered in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich Schmigal, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules on Friday, at 10 a.m., an “hour of questions to the Government” is held. The Conciliation Council approved the proposal of MP factions and groups to listen to "hours of questions to the Government" of information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the results of the Government's implementation of quarantine measures in 2021, the state of implementation of the plan for vaccination of the population of Ukraine against COPID-19 and the protection of all systems of activity of the country against the negative effects of the pandemic. Dear colleagues, the next order is proposed to hold an hour of questions to the government. Report by the Minister of Health of Ukraine on a specific subject — up to 10 minutes. The answer to questions from MPs and groups is up to 21 minutes. The Prime Minister's and government members' replies to questions from Ukrainian national deputies, within 30 minutes, are one minute to an oral question and two minutes to an answer. There's no objection. As a result, U.S. Health Minister Viktor Kirilovich Ljashko, 10 minutes, is invited to report to the rostrum. Please, Victor Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u2	Good afternoon! Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies, dear Ukrainian people! It has been 20 months since the outbreak of coronary disease in Ukraine and the world’s pandemic. They're all exhausted. All are interested in the answer to the same question: When will this all end? The bad news is that SOVID-19 may never be gone. The good news is we can go back to normal life with the circulation of this virus between us. More and more scientists suggest that SOVID will become an endemic disease, and this will require new anti-epidemic measures that are different from those at the beginning of the epidemic. The waves of restrictions and lokdowns around the world after SARS-COV-2 was announced had a clear goal: to prevent the spread of coronary disease, to reduce the number of infected people, and to save medical systems from collapse. Today we have to admit that it has not been possible to prevent the spread of coronary disease around the world. SARS-COV-2 does not only live in the human population on all continents, it also adapts to the conditions of being through mutations that have already been recorded at 13,000. And these mutations are very aggressive, like the Delta strain that is now raging in Ukraine. Unfortunately, Ukraine, although last but not least, has entered this next autumn-winter European moment -- an increase in the level of disease on SOVID. This time the disease curve is growing rapidly. Every two or three weeks, the number of SOVID cases doubles. The number of calls to 103 has already set a historical record, and it won't be the last. Just as the number of emergency teams and hospitalizations has established a historical maximum. Ukraine lost 62,000 of our citizens because of SOVID. These are the populations of such cities as Boryspill, Pervomaysk, Colomia. Sadly, in today’s world, you are increasingly afraid to take responsibility for your loved ones. Try to avoid difficulties in finding reliable information. Stay in search of so - called light paths that allow you to avoid quarantine restrictions. This leads to the formation of demand for counterfeit documents, it nourishes the anti-vaccinal movement, it stimulates the flow of resources to those who are fighting a hybrid war with us. But believe me, this movement is not against the system, it's a lack of understanding of the value of your health and the delay in returning to normal life. The saddest part is that this leads to new sad records, such as yesterday's 614 new COVID flights. But I'll give you other numbers. Without the current rate of vaccination, we would have 795 dead yesterday. I mean, last night, the vaccine saved 181 lives. It could have been one of us, our relatives, our loved ones, but it was not our conscious choice to do so. Yesterday without vaccination, we would have had 707 dead, but vaccination saved 161 lives. Two days ago, 495 Ukrainians died, 638 dead, or 143 more lives were saved without vaccination. The vaccination factor in the last four months in Ukraine has already saved 2.5 thousand lives, the size of the population of the city of Baturin in the Chernigiv region. The Delta strain, which is now raging in Ukraine, has a special feature, unpredicted both in the spread of the country and in the spread of the disease it provokes. This is observed worldwide, and everyone sees it except for coyotes and antivaccinals. And people who operate on statistics and visit hospitals every day see things with their own eyes and a completely different willingness of the medical system, and the subtlety of the Coronavirus, see how the consumption of oxygen increased by five to six times per patient hospitalized with Delta. The average costs of liquid oxygen in hospitals per day were double compared to the April 2021 period. There are cities where oxygen consumption is now 45-50 tons per day. The total and needed oxygen flow in the country today is 977 thousand gallons [977,000 L] of oxygen per minute. In order to meet the needs of oxygen, before the new wave began, the government liberated the business from taxes and from oxygen congregations and made it possible to use technical oxygen in health facilities. The Department of Health's team has been working with health-care companies constantly to increase their capacity. So far, two plants that are producing medical oxygen have stopped at the scheduled regulatory work for 10-15 days, another producer in Western Ukraine has developed technical failures, and immediately there's a rumor that there's not enough oxygen, the system isn't ready. Simply: all patients in need of oxygen therapy will receive it, we will prepare for planned regulatory work, and together with manufacturers, we will find a replacement for this period, a replacement that will become even more powerful once the plants are removed from regular work. Without panic, the problem of technical failure at one of the factories in Western Ukraine was also overcome. Thanks to the coordinated work of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Infrastructure, it has been possible to supply oxygen from Poland at an approximate rate of 240 tons per week. Yesterday, a selector with regions was held to discuss with each supervisor the issue of the availability of oxygen and its continuity of supply. In total, 1 billion 148 million have been allocated for improved oxygen systems this year, of which nearly 400 million have been allocated to the region this fall. These funds have already become beds with high - flowed oxygen, 130 oxygen stations, and more than 150 cryogenic gasifiers. In Ukraine alone today, 64,000 beds are available for the treatment of COVID patients, of which more than 96 are provided for oxygen therapy. Patients in need of oxygen therapy are now engaged in 54 percent of the oxygenated beds. And that number of single beds is not yet the limit of the medical system. In the peak load of the spring wave in Ukraine, 80,000 cod beds have been allocated, so we are ready to increase the number of codbed resources by at least a third. But we should bear in mind that expanding cod beds is a risk of failure to provide full medical care to patients with other diseases. To protect medical personnel in Ukraine, an estimated 22.7 million suits, robes, more than 42 million masks, and 8 million respirators are in hospitals or at a national warehouse awaiting their divorce. Nearly 3,000 vials of Tocilizumab have been bought centrally for the treatment of patients, and about 6,000 more are in the process of purchase, and 14,000 packages of Remdesuvre. In addition, with the support of the U.S. Embassy, humanitarian aid has been received in the form of innovative medical supplies of 60,000 vials of monoclonal antibodies that are currently included in the protocol and transferred to our doctors. From April to September, Ukraine’s National Health Service has already counted nearly 5 billion dollars for the treatment of patients with coronary disease. In September, one patient’s treatment costs an average of 22,000 dollars, an additional 5 billion already reserved for health care facilities by the end of the year. Some funds have also been made to pay for vaccination by health - care workers. During April and September, 380 million dollars for vaccinations are credited to hospitals. Our response is not just a fire extinguisher, a year and a half in constant turbulence and in the world, and Ukraine has already made a number of investments in the health system that are now allowing us to increase readiness for the next global and local challenges. In view of the fact that one of the first shocks in the rise of disease is the emergency medical care, a centralized purchase of 622 rapids took place in 2021, in 2020, at the expense of the state budget. In addition, 644 additional vehicles were purchased by regional emergency medical centres. This allows us to completely meet the critical need for road transport and to get rid of morally outdated techniques. After starting a sequencing extension program to determine COVID-19 genotypes, more than 3,000 samples have already been collected in Ukraine. We started by sending samples to WHO regional laboratories abroad. But now we have a working sequencer of a new generation, validation studies, and the first results of the sequences of the genome. The newly created State Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are already doing 75,000 PlR studies a day and can do more. And I'm going to stand on other records separately, the record of the system's ability. During this week, we record the fourth consecutive day’s record of vaccinations. Yesterday we made almost 270,000. Our closest direction and assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u3	Thank you, time's up. Dear colleagues, let us turn to questions to the Ukrainian health ministers from the MP factions and groups. Please sign up for the question. The word is given to the national deputy of Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u4	Please pass the word to the member factions of the Voice of Inni Sowsun.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u5	Another Romanovna Sosun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u6	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Mr. Secretary, I was curious to hear your report. It seems that some moments are missed or somewhat optimistic. I'm getting a lot of information from the chief doctors in the region. They're panicking because one of the main oxygen suppliers that is now, went to technical repairs. Please tell me how long these repairs will take, and how much additional capacity has been provided during this period to ensure that there is oxygen in the hospitals. Because today in some hospitals, oxygen will run out today, in an extreme case tomorrow, and so far there are no other options. The second question. You said 400 million people were sent to buy oxygen stations in the fall. The question is rhetorical. Why was this not done in the summer? Question two. Are you exaggerating when you say that now oxygen stations have been purchased for this money if it has been less than a month since you did it? Why it was done at the last moment, it was not clear to me, and it was equally unclear for Ukrainian hospitals and doctors and patients.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u7	Thank you for asking. As I was saying in my speech, two factories stopped at regular work. But the system was being prepared to stop these factories. And today we've got additional oxygen, technical oxygen, that goes through laboratory control and comes into the health care facility. Panic arose in health institutions after they received a letter from one of the providers that there was a possibility of failure to meet contractual obligations. But the Ministry of Health has this situation under full control, and meetings and meetings and selectors are held every day, and we know about the presence and availability of oxygen in each hospital. A critical issue that arose unexpectedly was the collapse of one of the factories that did not stop at regular work. But the coordinated work of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Infrastructure has allowed this issue to be resolved. Yesterday, we literally held a number of other people with deputy heads of district administrations, health departments, and we are well aware of where and how much oxygen will go during these days so that no hospital in our country will have a critical oxygen shortage. In my report, I said that over 1.2 billion dollars this year went to provide and improve oxygen supply systems. And I didn't get the numbers on the oxygen stations, on the cryogenic capacities, on the ones that are already standing and working. An additional 400 million will allow us to grow in power. Because, as I said, Delta strain, it's unexpected and unpredicted, oxygen consumption in hospitals is increasing at times, in some tens of times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u8	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u9	Please pass the word to Ivanci Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u10	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u11	Dear Minister, please tell me whether you support the decision or the preparation of the decision of the Zacarpathian District Council. In my opinion, a completely arbitrary decision, which, contrary to the Ukrainian law, does not take into account the planning of hospital districts, without planning and analysis as to how to provide health care to the population of the area in a timely and qualitative manner, proposes that 15 community health institutions be merged into a single municipal institution, not to mention that the issue of budget balances is completely disregarded, as only one specific city will be visited by the PPF. Do you support it?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u12	Thank you for asking. As a health minister, I want us in Ukraine to have universal access to health services. What are we doing now as the Ministry of Health? We've developed masterplans for every area that provides for the clustering of hospitals, i.e. the division of hospitals into four categories: superclusters, clusters, generals and transitions. These hospitals will be prescribed with a clear function so that we can understand the medical services of which level of complexity should be provided in this hospital. At the same time, we are providing an upgrade of the material and technical base and reconstruction of the technical equipment of hospitals from the state budget. So to this day, I do not support any decisions made by the local self-government authorities that envision the merger, reformation or retraining of hospitals until the proposals developed by the Ministry of Health are developed. discussed at hospital council meetings involving the public, national deputies, district council members, as well as hospital groups, until then no union will be supported or offered any other offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u13	The word is given to Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich, faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u14	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Minister, your home team thanks you to all medical personnel who are working day and night to protect the health and life of Ukrainians. It's a real feat. I have three specific questions for you. The first is whether a decision has already been adopted, where there is an expanded list of those professions that are at risk today, is about drivers, locksmiths, and so on. If not, when will it finally be approved? It's a cry of the soul from the territories. The next question is about oxygen plants, today they're all private. The state doesn't have any, we want to buy in Poland. Didn't you plan on spending together with the government to build at least one state oxygen plant, because we don't know what the perspective would be. And third, in Slovenian. Since October 7, this hospital has been taking on a cadaverized patient, and there is no agreement to date. There are administrations, please, these are unique cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u15	Thank you for asking. I'll start with the last one. All hospitals, which are included in the list of job managers and accept patients with coronary disease in October, will have contracts from October 1. The cost of this is foreseen, and the National Health Service of Ukraine will pay as a result of the number of patients admitted and the number of formed brigades. Also, the government's decision that it's making right now is going to take effect this week. Which simplified the requirements for hospitals that would then be included in the census and contracted by the Ukrainian National Health Service. Also about oxygen independence. The government in its subsidies took priority over the purchase and supply of autonomous oxygen stations, the generation of oxygen in each hospital. So today we work on additional sources of oxygen in every hospital. There must be a subtlety that is either liquid or gaseous, and an oxygen station in case critical situations such as COVID or regulatory work or technical malfunctions occur. It's about a list of professions. A list of professions established by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, which is determined by whom, without further investigation, a professional illness can be immediately established. As for other professions, we work together, and I think in the near future, we'll be working together from the University of Minnesota, from the State in order to settle this issue and offer an optimal option for our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u16	Thank you. Please give the word Coltunovich Alexandro Sergiyovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u17	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Mr. Secretary, I have a question. You obviously know about the transport collapse that was introduced as a result of a particular zoning and the limitations that were. We are interested in questions about interdisciplinary passenger transports, how will you address this issue? You probably know what the situation is. I understand you're not a professional minister, but it's up to you, too. The second point is that it's about urban transport. You remember this shameful practice, which was not with these permits, but with permits and so on. Against the background of the shadow segment of Uklon, Uber, Bolt, BlaBlaCar and so on, how does this direct you with the decisions you make? The second question is about vaccines. We have several million Ukrainian citizens in the Russian Federation who are being vaccinated with KowieVak in the center of Chumakov, Sputnik in the center of Gamalei and EpiVacKorona in the center of Vector. How can they fit in with their vaccines in Ukrainian realities and foreclosures and participation in life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u18	Thank you for asking. As the minister of health, I will invite the government to make unpopular decisions. I myself will make unpopular decisions that I have been given the authority to protect and preserve the lives of every Ukrainian. And we will do so, regardless of what happens in other structures, for life and health are priorities over everything else. When we're talking about introducing quarantine restrictions, including transport, believe me, this is not a simple decision. This decision is based on reducing the number of infected people, reducing the number of hospitalized people, and reducing the number of people who are receiving resuscitation. Each person in COVID is unable to resuscitate with another disease. So once again, I'm going to ask everyone for a vaccine. This vaccine isn't for life, but this vaccine is for life, and it's for everyone to understand. Because the number of fairies that are spreading today, they're triggering anti-vaccinal movements, they're provoking fake help. And this every fake test, or COVID certificate, takes the life of the Ukrainian who got it. I'd like to stop there for a little while for falsification and testing today. The National Police have already begun 732 criminal acts, 349 have been reported and 281 have been sent to court. It's about vaccination. Ukraine uses four vaccines that are recognized by the World Health Organization, which are safe and effective, and have proved effective. So please use that vaccine that's in our nation's territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u19	Anatoly Igorovich Urbanski, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u20	Please pass the word "Constankevitch" to Irina Miroslavni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u21	Please, Constance.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u22	Mr. Secretary, we've listened very carefully to your statement. Thank you for him. And I want to point out that 50 percent of your time has been devoted to the situation, and only two seconds ago, how you wrote the system's performance records. So I'd like to ask you more about the system's ability records. In particular, the first question is, will the system be included in the capacity of the district hospitals as potentially resilient? And the second question. Pay the medics. Is the 22nd budget for payments and an increase in wages for all medical personnel, or is it only 50 percent of what it looks like now by number? And the third. How exactly do you propose to activate the vaccine, how do you report it? It's informative. So this has to be a broad information campaign. Please, the record.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. As I've already said, we don't plan to increase the number of support hospitals, we plan to change the approach to hospital clustering, so that each hospital has its own functional, material and technical security and proper medical qualifications. The budget for the following year has been set up to improve the material and technical base of our hospitals, as well as doctors who can move from one hospital to another, if any ward is opened in another hospital. Believe me, we don't need every CT and MRI hospital that's gonna work two hours a day. We need hospitals with 24/7 high-cost equipment, but it'll be free and free to patients. Recently, I went to one of the regions. A district hospital with a reception center was built. A computer tomographer is placed in the district hospital with a reception center. In addition to this district hospital, there is a cadaveral ward and patients from the cadaver ward were sent to CT to a private structure. Believe me, the chief physician is off-limits, there is a service, and there is likely to be a criminal investigation. There should be no such fact. I'm about to raise the vaccine. Once again, as my minister, it is my priority to fulfill my promises. Five months ago, I was standing on this stand, and I told you, I promised that anyone who wanted to be vaccinated could be vaccinated. And this promise was fulfilled in July. I told you we could inoculate 250,000 a day, now we're inoculating 270,000 a day. Here is the question that we should all be united today, and everyone will ask: How many people did he convince to come and get vaccinated? Believe me, there are no people in my immediate environment who are unvaccinated. Every trip I make to the region ends up with people going to the injection sites. That's why we all have to do what we're expected to do -- convince the person who's hesitant today to come and do the vaccination. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u24	Thank you. Please, alien Boris Viktorovich, group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u25	Thank you. Please pass the word to Bilozer Larissa Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u26	Please, Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u27	Larissa Bilozer, Trust Group. Dear Victor Kirilovich, in the hospitals, you have already found that there is virtually no homing in hospitals or places for the sick. And because of the higher requirements of the National Health Service, the new COVID pharmacies cannot be opened. Now there's a requirement, they've invented it since June -- an anesthesiologist on a permanent basis. Why? When they can be found around the world, in European countries, they can be external associates. And that's why, for example, there are only 10 hospitals in Winnitz, and they're almost filled. And from the Trieste, I have from the county, from the Swan in two hours on Winnitzkin. That's a huge problem. Remove this requirement. Not enough, colleagues say that there is an order that a 30 - year - old anchor hospital in the MoE has not signed the anchor package until last year. I mean, I think it's obvious that the mandatory condition for these, the minimum number of anesthesiologists, is very severe. For example.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Larissa, for asking. This rule was removed by the government last week, yes, by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Repeatedly, all health departments have been contacted. And each new hospital, which is included in the COVID list, for a selector’s meeting, conducted by either the minister of health or his first deputy, also involves the chief physician. Believe me, this is not just the norm. When we were doing the normal thing, we divided the hospital into a few waves. The first wave is at least four emergency teams to bring as many serious patients to these hospitals as possible. Other hospitals that have fewer reanimatologist anesthesiologists are taking patients with less critical conditions on the route. I was recently on weekends in the Lviv Hospital of Emergency Medical Care. There, too, in the media, there were quite a number of charges against doctors and high - flying people. I've been talking to doctors, talking to patients. Believe me, 80 percent of the airtightness in this hospital, which has the most cod beds, is a thousand, more than a hundred emergency beds exclusively for COVID, the airtightness is the largest in the early days. That is, 80 percent of the airline in the first century. This indicates that the hospital accepts the most difficult patients. This indicates that in Ukraine there is a predominance of people who do not believe in the coronavirus, who continue to be treated with domestic tools and self - care. We need to talk to a family doctor, and we need to avoid missing this sneaky moment in the Delta strain of the Coronary, when it becomes a pretty quick state of crisis, and then the medics are powerless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u29	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Stépi Sergija Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Vladimir Gevk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u31	Please, Vladimir Gevko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u32	Minister Viktor Kirilovich, I know that you visit many areas, you visit many hospitals, where not even all district managers often visit. What's the real situation in these hospitals right now? Does it match the statistics they submit to the Ministry? And the second question is vaccination. We all know that this is the moment of the pandemic. It's a pandemic of unvaccinated people. Many politicians at the beginning of the vaccination made such a mixed statement, levelled the importance of the vaccine, and some openly opposed it. Do you think politicians should set an example of how important vaccination is to society and call for maximum vaccination at such a difficult time for our state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u33	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr, for asking. I'm not a minister who's going to speak white in black and vice versa. I don't want to be a cabinet minister, and I don't want my team of deputies to be office assistants. Every week we visit regions where we visit health care facilities every week, and we often visit health - care facilities where no leg and district health departments have gone. And believe me, the facts that appear are quite painful and violent. When we talk about certain statistics that we need to have, on which we rely, we need them to make balanced administrative decisions. Regrettably, the algorithms developed by the Ministry of Health are often not implemented locally. And this leads to management decisions being made. Recently, my trip to Zaporozhye to see what was wrong with the work of mass vaccination centers led to the fact that after my trip to Zaporozhye, I had taken the city council on the removal from the work of the director of the Health Department of Zaporozhye. Since vaccinations are available, health - care workers must be provided with, and without hindrance, access to, these vaccinations. Today, I would like to take this opportunity to thank every medical worker for his position and the power of the spirit. And we will not forget any physician whose life was destroyed in the fight against the pandemic. And today, those who promote anti-vaccinal moods would also like to point out that it's someone's refusal to inject themselves into resuscitations to pay off our doctors by working 24/7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u34	Thank you, Victor Kirilovich. Victor Kirilovich, another question from the Presidium. Olena Kostvena, please, Deputy Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u35	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Mr. Victor, you know, I was just the initiator of inviting you today from the government for this report. And I'm very sorry to say that it's very embarrassing to read publications from international publications, such as The New York Times, about Ukraine as an outsider in Europe at vaccination rates and at vaccination rates, and about the unwillingness of the population to vaccinate, and about the mass counterfeiting of vaccination certificates. You know, in fact, the problem of our COVID and the problem has revealed a much broader problem is that it's the level of education of our doctors, because, on the one hand, you've absolutely said that many of the doctors work exactly the ones that are, with the lame, work, in principle, within the boundaries of the life and death of their own families and so on. On the other hand, there are many doctors, including family doctors, who are active antivaccinators. So I have a specific question, what exactly are you going to be, what kind of tools are you going to use, like you said, to convince these people, especially the medics, to do the best they can to vaccinate our people? And the second question. Well, look, there's a national MP sitting in front of you right now with no masks, no masks. Tell me, what tools do you need to add to convince them to wear masks, because we can't do that anymore, unfortunately? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u36	During the days of the media, medical personnel in cadres published by the Ministry of Health were flying around. One person was no longer in these pictures. More than an epidemic of coronary disease took her life, she died because of a pandemic of irresponsibility and indifference. The spread of fairy tales and the spread of vaccine lies takes someone’s life every day. So today, I am addressing all who are unable to explain who is unable to explain, please send qualified medical professionals, trust only the information from verified sources: the Ministry of Health, the Center for Public Health, the World Health Organization. As for doctors who refuse to vaccinate. If they are, we will quickly detect them, allowing us to do so by the electronic system of the Ministry of Health. With the increase in vaccination coverage, we'll have low levels of vaccination among those family doctors who probably don't trust the vaccine, and we'll have another conversation with them. But I would not want us to give in to fairy tales and propaganda, including in the hybrid war against Ukraine, where there are completely absurd things that involve vaccination, and these absurd things lead to sad records.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u37	Thank you, Victor Kirilovich. Now we're going to try to convince again. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask everyone in the room to put on their masks and keep them until the conclusion of our plenary session. Dear colleagues, please let us abide by the legislation that we are adopting along with you. And Victor Kirilovich is following this, and I think he'll find other, more convincing words for the national MPs. Thank you, Victor Kirilovich, please take your place. Let's move on to questions to the Prime Minister and members of the government from the National Deputies. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for these questions. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u38	Please pass the word to your colleague Urbanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u39	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u40	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear Mr. Prime Minister, in my home district of Odessa, people are ready to go out and cover up important car connections due to non-existent gas debts, more than 126,000 households in the area are handed over to the last hope provider, Naftogazu. First, the price of gas in this case is 16.5 dollars, not the government's promised 7. Secondly, the previous supplier should inform the consumer in 10 days, and this requirement is not met, or worse, no one is controlled. While the NCRECR requires that the consumer transmit the gas distribution network operator’s data from the first to the fifth month. If such data does not come to the final supplier, the cubes are accounted for without a valid basis. And now, if that was the case, the timely complaints against NAC Naftogazu and NAK do not help.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. In fact, we know about this situation in the Odessa region and we have already held more than one meeting and a meeting with NAC and NAC Naftogaz. The problem is understood, and gas is supplied to people, will be supplied, and the price will be appropriate, as it is set for the population. Now this problem is being solved by the NAC Naftogaz, and with the support of the Ukrainian government, it will be resolved that people will not overpay for gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u42	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u44	Sophia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u45	Questions to the Minister of Health We all realize that today we have critically low reserves of gas and that coal is almost four times less than it is needed for the heating season and for the supply of electricity. So we understand that there could be power cuts, and for patients in hospitals, including resuscitations, it's equivalent to death. How do you prepare for this situation, whether you are buying, providing the hospital with generators, and how do you plan to control the process? The second question. We have a medical deficit today, and it's going to be shorter. Today, much has been said about medical wages, but the budget does not have the funds to increase wages. What are you planning to do with it? And finally, just a year ago, Zelensky promised to try out a new vaccine of Ukrainian production on his own. The vaccine is either gone or gone, Zelensky's lie.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. The Ministry of Health holds the hand of the pulse with the issue of electrical security, the heat supply of every health care facility. On the basis of the requirements that exist today and are in force in our country, every health care facility has an alternative source of energy. With regard to the signing of gas contracts, this issue is under control, and according to a recent selector who was this week, there should be no disruption of supply. It's about medical wages. The draft budget, which was adopted in the first reading, provided for an increase of almost 35 billion dollars in medical guarantees. This increase in the medical guarantees program will lead to the basic level of the Nurse’s salary from January 1st to January 1st to 13,000, 500 dollars, 20,000 dollars for the doctor. And we're going to do everything we can to make it happen, and it was just a start to an increase in the wages of health workers. About the Ukrainian vaccine. The Ukrainian vaccine will be in Ukraine. Today, we say that we are developing our new technologies and that we are developing in Ukraine a bioclaster, 18 scientific developments have already been made, and we are building a line from which we expect the rise of the first vaccine, an inactivated vaccine that will also be used in the territory of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u47	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Maslov Denis Vejacheslavovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u48	Please pass the word to my charming colleague Julia Grishinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u49	Julia Mikolayevna Grishina.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u50	Thank you. I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister, and it's about the functioning of higher education institutions now in the conditions we have. Today most universities find themselves in a situation where they have to either stop the teaching process or turn off the fires in the shelters, because we know that universities are constantly somewhat underfunded and cannot pay for the gas by 46,000 per cubic meter. Minister, educational institutions are legal persons, according to the law is not about. Legal persons under the Natural Gas Market Act do not refer to domestic consumers. I have a question for you: what costs, in the middle of the school year, are they supposed to cover these costs when it's impossible to raise the cost of learning and cannot raise the cost of living in hostels, it's just a ban on legislation. We've already sent you an address on this. Please tell me, how are we going to get out of this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u51	Thank you. So according to the signed memorandum and the NAC "Naftogaz" price, all institutions and organizations funded by state and local budgets received a 13.8 price offer for their own nomads. So this is the whole budget area -- kindergarten schools, hospitals that have boiler schools, and universities -- they get gas at 13.8 without VAT. That is, in principle, all the budgetary institutions in the local or state budgets will have this price and have this offer. If it's a private business, private institutions, it's a market price.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u52	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Tchaikovsky Ivan Adamovich, the MP's Party for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u53	May I speak to Saucuk Oksani Vasilovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u54	Oksan Vasilevna's owl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u55	Oksana Savichuk. I have a question for the Prime Minister. I want to ask you on behalf of all the major MPs who represent the Lvivsky, Zakarpatski and Ivano-Frankiv region, Mr. Prime Minister, a very clear question. I'm not going to touch the gas because we're already talking about this today, but we're going to find that electricity has grown by 100 percent, and that's going to mean that there's going to be a sharp increase in tariffs right on our fees for preschools and education. I have a question for you. Is it true that the Ministry of Energy plans to raise prices by increasing primers in the Burstin Energy? And then it's actually going to touch Zacarpatski, Lvivsky, Ivano-Frankivsk, and the electricity prices are going to go up by 100 percent. Please tell me, will this be a promotion, or is it planned? Or I ask you to officially correct this information and that the prices will not rise for electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. So first, the primer sets NCREKP, now the top level in Ukraine is set, I think 4 bracelets, in Burstin Island 2.5 bracelets. Prices are fluctuating within these limits today in the Burstin Islands. If you need any further additions, please ask the Minister of Energy to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u57	Good afternoon! Actually, that's right, four bracelets for the day zone and two bracelets for the night. And in principle, there's no information in the mandate of the NCREKP today that they're planning to review any prisms.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u58	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Honcharenko Alexiyyovich, the faction of "European Solidarity". Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u59	I'm sorry. National MP Honcharenko, European Solidarity. Dear friends, I have a question for the Minister of Internal Affairs. We have been informed by the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Daniels that 108 errors have been made in the decision of the NSA regarding criminal authorities to impose sanctions. And he said it was a mistake from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I want to hear exactly who made this mistake, why it wasn't tested in the PNB, and he said that there were eight people being punished, someone being released, someone else. I want to hear the names and positions of people, why such mistakes have taken place, and what mistakes they have made. And in general, it can be that in the decision of the Council of National Security 108 mistakes. How, in principle, is this possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. With regard to the technical corrections made by the Security and Defence Council, indeed, the Ministry of Internal Affairs carried out an assessment of the execution of sanctions and technical changes in the surname, particularly in Latin, where certain letters were found, did not match those in foreign passports, particularly those of these citizens. The date of birth was changed or not, and another nationality was given somewhere. A total of 108 technical corrections were made. In no case have these persons been expelled, criminal authorities and parts, and this is about "wolfs in the law." And this is actually going to make the sanctions work even more actively and effectively. In particular, the language goes and these errors have already been transferred to the National Bank and banking institutions to block the corresponding accounts of these persons if they are not blocked in connection with these technical inaccuracies. It's about responsibility. A number of members of the National Police, such as the Department of Strategic Investigations of the Ukrainian National Police, were released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u61	Thank you. Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u62	Thank you. Please pass the word to Nina Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u63	Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, in fact, I also thought that you too, reporting on the readiness of our medical system, talked too much about record possibilities. You said Ukraine was the last one to enter this moment. You talked about providing all the needs with oxygen and so on. I'd like to hear, really, it doesn't matter whether the MPs are campaigning for vaccination or not, we could get a positive result. Have you analyzed what groups of people or what people at home have not been vaccinated? What program have you developed? I don't think advertising on 30-second television means anything. Are you going to influence the very people who have imposed on people the harmfulness of the vaccine and continue to manipulate these people? In fact, it's a state for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. So that people will know where the vaccine is and why it's important, we put information videos on television in March, external advertising, handing out cards through partners, publishing articles on regional media, informing social media users every day, and working with priority groups on the spot. In just six months, more than 70 percent of the population had been vaccinated on television. And we're strengthening this direction, because now we're going to be able to place public awareness of the importance of vaccination on television channels. Today, more than 3,000 vaccination sites and 400 mass vaccination centers work. They're all over the country in hospitals, malls, and cultural centers, and even in some branches of the UK and railway stations. We have placed more than 25 million doses of various vaccines in Ukraine. They are all safe, effective, included in the WHO emergency list. By the end of the year, we will be able to place at least 16 million doses. Moreover, we have guarantees of a high level of supply of vaccines for the next two years with clear delivery times and at competitive prices. What is important is that, despite the world’s considerable support under the COVAX initiative, Ukraine is now able to fully provide its population’s needs at the expense of its budget. 70 percent of the vaccine consumed or available in Ukraine has already been purchased at budget costs, and this is because I have broken contracts with producers who have not complied with their contractual obligations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u66	The word is given to the People's Deputy Kacny Alexander Stalinolenovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u67	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Moroz?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u68	Vladimir Viktorovich Moroz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u69	Thank you. Moroz Volodymir, 59 constituency, Donetskina. Mr. Prime Minister, I don't have a question for you today. I have a question for Mr. Galuchenko. You talked about how you would be assigned to handle those cities, namely, Mar’inka, Krasnogorovka, Ukrainian, Mining, Novogrodowka, where people do not have central heating. There's no central heating, no gas, no coal, they're all heating up in the rosette, and they've got compensators today. And this is the line of separation. That's the first question. And the second question. We want to know when the miners get their salary today? And we decided on our committee, Mr. Energy Minister, that they would come and make plans for mining, and so that we could look at the mines, what we could do with them. Let's stop this collapse. Give me an answer on the compensators.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u70	Thank you for asking. I'm going to ask the first part of the Donetsk area to answer the first deputy minister of reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories, on the second part of your question, then the minister of energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u71	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Actually, these population points that you, Mr. Volodymyr, have listed, we are aware of. They worked together with the local authorities to keep people warm, with light. At the same time, there are no security assurances to date regarding the proper repairs of the gas pipeline. We're also working, as part of the Tripartite Contact Group, to provide these things, but for today we can't put people at risk who are directly doing repairs. If you can help us in this regard, help us to obtain security assurances, we will be very grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u72	The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Chigoza Ahtem Zeitullaiovich. Excuse me, second question. Please. Yes, yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u73	Thank you. With regard to the second question, about the wages of miners. So now Minfin is working, and we're working with him to get closer to this billion, get the money, and we'll pay the miners right away. Moreover, a number of measures have already been taken with regard to the repayment of old debts, such as those that have arisen before between the Centrenergo and a number of government mines. With regard to mining plans, of course, we're ready to give everything and give it to the committee at any time.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u74	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Chigoza Ahtem Zeitullaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u75	Please give Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u76	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u77	I have a question for the Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine. I don't think you're going to deny, the whole government, that the information campaign on the need for a broad vaccination has failed, and that's because your team, you call yourself communication geniuses. And at the same time, when the government and the department of profile have done nothing to make the right videos on time, to promote the need for a broad vaccination, we hear from journalists, from several channels now, from editors about the pressure of authority on the editors, about interference in editorial policy, about freedom of speech. There is no response of authority to this. We now demand that the Prime Minister respond to the statements made by the social speaker about the involvement of the President's Office and the authorities in their work. That's the first one. And the second. Would you comment, please, on how do we have the social language underfunded, and at this time, you are generously financing the "parket" TV at the Banking House? And it has been known that 39 million dollars have not been allocated for the promotion of vaccination for occupied areas now to come and get the vaccine.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u78	I'll get started. As for the vaccine campaign, you can see everything on TV right now. The government has never been implemented or implemented, nor are we going to exert any pressure on the media. In terms of public funding. The funding is in full volume, which is envisioned by the national budget of Ukraine — billions of dollars, not millions, but billions of dollars. For the rest of the questions, please answer the Minister of Culture and Information Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u79	Mrs. Irina, as a television set, I want to tell you that you're wrong. The recent coverage of advertising is extremely large, virtually every hour of advertising, and there are social videos on all major channels. And with regard to social television, it's actually financed by a lot of money. And even though there are questions about ratings, because that's why other channels are getting much higher ratings for this kind of money. And it's not just about trust, it's about responsibility for spending. Regarding other issues, I think that when we talk about the Social Dictionary, we need to resolve an honest question. Well, he can't be the head of the Social Language Supervisory Board at the same time as an Internet publisher. Conflict of interest. That's not what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u80	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Paulus Paul Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u81	Good afternoon! Paulus, 182 district, Herson. I have a question for Health Minister Viktor Kirilovich. Mr. Minister, Hersonian, she entered the red zone first. A mobile hospital has been opened today. We've had a very big problem with oxygen. Because, according to the reports I received today from the area, oxygen remains for 1 day. Is it planned for the Ministry to create a surplus so that it is not possible to work from wheels? And I ask you to take this question for control, and make sure that Hersonic is oxygen-sustained. And so that people don't get hurt by the fact that there's going to be a lack of oxygen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u82	Thank you for asking. Yes, as I said in my report, we control and keep the issue of oxygen supply under control. Yesterday, at a selector’s meeting, Mr. Yakimenko, the deputy head of the district administration, was contacted personally. And we understand clearly how much oxygen we need to put and where we don't want any collapse in the oxygen supply system. As for opening a hospital, that decision is now being made. And it's going to be going to the Herson area in the near future to increase the number of beds that patients with coronary disease can study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u83	The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Grishny Yulia Mikolayovni, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Sergio Stépi.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u85	Sergey Stepa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u86	I have a question for the Minister of Health. Mr. Secretary, I'm very grateful for your statement. I listened to it very carefully. I also want to thank all doctors who struggle almost 24 hours a day for the lives and health of our people. But I have a question. Very often, I know, there's a situation where you have some suspicion of SOVID-19 but then you think if you go to test it, because it takes, first of all, spending your time, standing in line and paying a certain amount of money -- 500-700 dollars, and for many people today it's quite a lot of money. And these people just don't get tested, they keep working, they're in society, and they can also cause other people to get sick at SOVID-19. Also, many people think that if the vaccine is free and the test is paid, it is wrong, and it may also have an impact on the reduction in vaccination rates. I have a question for you. Is there any mechanism to increase the number of people who can be tested for free, if there is, let's say, a suspicion that they actually have SOVID-19, and they really need it? Because many people just don't have the money to go through with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u87	Thank you for asking. Today, the newly created state control and disease prevention centres are already doing 75,000 PlR studies a day and can do even more. In addition to the antigen tests, the test rate in Ukraine is ahead of some large countries in Europe and five times higher than the established minimum European rate of 300 per 100,000 population. The supply of test systems currently supported by supply contracts at peak consumption rates is guaranteed at least by the end of the first quarter of 2022. In order to fill the stock with tests and samples for the selection of biological material, the government has recently allocated an additional subsidy to regions of 150 million dollars. So today, if someone has symptoms that require funding for a PLR survey or express research, please report it to the government hotline and the hot line of the Ministry of Health. Such testing is free of charge for the people, for the Ukrainians today. The government has provided tests and tests to ensure that all carry out these tests for people with symptoms free of charge as well as vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u88	Thank you. Next, Shevchenko Eugene, but he's handing over to Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u89	Bakumov Alexander, 173 constituency, Kharkiv I have a question for the Minister of Internal Affairs of Denis Monastery. We know that coronary disease is also spread in connection with the counterfeiting of COVID certificates and PLR tests and, in particular, they are produced and sold, and are used primarily by irresponsible Ukrainian citizens who are putting the entire Ukrainian society at risk. What action is now being taken by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Police of Ukraine, to combat such illegal activities? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u90	Thank you for asking. Today, more than a thousand mobile groups are working all over Ukraine to monitor and detect counterfeit certificates, including their verifications. Today more than 800 criminal conducts have been initiated regarding counterfeit vaccination certificates. I would like to point out that the responsibility lies not only with the person who forged the certificate, the doctor or the representative of the travel agency who mediated it, but also directly with the citizen who ordered and used the certificate. I can tell you that some of your former colleagues also use certificates. Today, we have just discovered the situation regarding the fake certificate of the ex-deputy member of Hope Saucenko. Such cases will be identified by law enforcement agencies and will be extremely harsh within the limits defined by criminal law. Both law enforcement and border guards keep working on it and revealing it and continue to display false certificates. This will be clearly a hard reaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u91	Thank you. The word is given to Shah's Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction, excuse me, MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u92	First question to the Minister of Energy. Vladimir Moroz has already talked about wages for miners, the failure of our mines, and the import of coal from other countries. At warehouses today, 600,000 tons of coal, and there should be 2 million 800,000 tons of coal, we have an energy crisis in the state today, and how you're going to solve it. And the second question and the offer to the minister of health. There's not enough oxygen in the hospitals today. Why don't you get a license for a technical liquid oxygen that you can get, for example, at the Nitrogen company in Sevierodoneck? Next. The lack of masks, money for security, antiseptics today is not enough money for even the least. Next. Today the ambulance gets 3.5-4.5 thousand dollars, the doctor gets 10,000 dollars, you said you'd get 20,000 dollars someday. When will that be? People today glisten, then they flood, and they die on these jobs. When will a person feel normal?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u93	To the first part of the question, please answer the Minister of Energy and to the second Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u94	Thank you for asking. In fact, imports are actually happening, and it's the coal imports that we're planning to cover the difference in the accumulation graph. So far, about 4 million tons of coal have been imported. And more than that, secondly, I've already talked about this, it's about raising the maximum atomic generation so that the energy system will work safely and peacefully, without being shut down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u95	Thank you. The word is given by Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyevich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I will have a question for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and who will consider it necessary will answer whether the Minister of Energy or the Prime Minister will be responsible for the loss of transit potential. You've been fighting the North Stream twice so fast, you've been banging "Turkish Stream." "Turkish Stream," now Hungary has signed a long-term contract that allows them to import natural gas into Ukraine, and you know that. So I'm going to have to ask you what you're going to do with the other gas pipelines that go around, including the East Mediterranean and so on, it's all directed at Ukraine. And the Jamal-Europe pipeline, where the power is increased. This time. Because it's not about the budget, it's about the economy of Ukraine. This time. The second point concerning Hungary is already mentioned. How you're going to deal with them, because there's, at least, the issue of that commission that you're not going to go to right now is the issue of international permits for international freight, car transport, and these quotas are also falling. What will you do about this question, how will you address the issue of Ukraine’s external economic isolation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u97	Actually, I'll start at the end. Today, there is a meeting of Ukrainian and Polish infrastructure ministers, one of the key issues is international transport permits. Similarly, we work with Hungary, Slovakia, and other countries on these matters. As you know, the Open Sky Agreement has been signed, and so we are moving in part of the openness of transport, logistics with the European Union, with European countries. As for the transit potential of Ukraine's energy sector, I'll ask the Minister of Energy to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u98	Thank you for asking. Indeed, after the Gazprom Agreement had been concluded with the Hungarian operator, the amount of actual transit through Ukraine fell from 109 million cubes under contract to 85-87 per day. But you have to take into account that the formula predicts that even if there is a decrease, the pay still takes place according to the amount that is in the contract. What's important is that this is really all of the elements, what you mentioned, absolutely correct, all of these streams, including Nord Stream-2, are all elements of the totally clear war of the hybrid Russian Federation against Ukraine. And that's why, of course, on all fronts and on all grounds, we work together with all international partners to counter the risks and to adequately eliminate any risks to the transport system. One of the directions is the increase, and now the increase in imports from Slovakia is being discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, the hour of questions to the government is over. Let us thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making today is given to you, so let us move on to its consideration. But I want to remind you that we are in the consideration of the State Budget, Bill 6,000, so we are continuing this consideration and we cannot in any way correct today's working day, because we are in the process of dealing with the issue. So I want to remind you that we have work until 12. Then from the 12th to the 12:30 break. From 12:30 to the first job. After that from the first request for half an hour and then from 1:30 p.m. Let's finish at 2 p.m. Why? Because this is what the Rules provide, there is nothing we can do about it because we are in the process of dealing with it. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to the budget. Amendment 1374, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u100	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! We continue to present our amendments to make this budget more focused on protecting people, to enable them to survive in the difficult conditions that the country is now facing in the context of the socio-economic crisis. Unfortunately, once again we have listened to the government and we see that there is no strategy, no tactics and no understanding of how to deal with the crisis, there is no government. And that, by the way, is the state budget project, where despite the beautiful slogans of modernization, investment in education, medicine, support for the economy, there's really no such thing. We also see a reduction in actual expenditures both for medicine and for education, we don't see any support for people in this State Budget project. That's why this amendment is directed.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u101	I would like to vote on the amendment of the 1374 People’s Deputy Pauline. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:19:03]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1390. Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u102	Moroz Volodymyr, Donetskina. It's my turn today. Please, let me do it. 1390
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u103	Your 1390 amendment is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u104	Yes, thank you, Mr. Speaker. In Appendix 3 to the draft law, water management and management reduce expenditure by 12 million 712,000. Because we understand that today this farm is virtually not working, it's moved to other ministries. To whom do we give these funds? Let's see where we're headed better, let's just clean up the Dnipro River in Kiev today. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u105	That is how I vote on the amendment of the 1,390 People’s Deputies of Frost and other authors. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:35]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1416. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I see that you too are pleased to see us and to hear us. I'd like to point out that Amendment 1416 is small by content, but large by substance. Because when we propose to cut costs in line 2708010 by almost 7.4 million dollars, we have accordingly proposed that these costs be redistributed to other spending rates. This is one moment. One second. But you have a budget deficit of 188 billion dollars, a budget deficit planned for the next year. Do you think you'll continue to cover it at the expense of the DWP? In my opinion, it is still necessary to optimize the spending, including at the expense of Amendment 1416. This time. The other one. And you have significant borrowings that are in this budget, and they actually provide for 45 percent of the revenue part of the budget. So imagine, 571 billion dollars we're borrowing. And in these circumstances, we have such expenditure on government authorities. In our view, they need to be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u107	I would like to vote on the amendment of 1416 national MP Koltunović and his other colleagues. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:22:12]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1445, National Deputy Gnatenko Valeriy Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u108	Thank you. OPCW, Donetsk Region, Gnatenko. Amendment 1445, please. I want to ask you this question, that our country's forest management is 14 percent made of forests that have grown themselves, and 2 percent of the forests that have been artificially planted by humans. Unfortunately, every year, 0.5 percent of our country's forests have been reduced for various reasons: black logging, fires, and so forth. If we do not spend money on supporting forest farming, we will eventually have forests disappearing altogether. It is therefore proposed that this amendment be directed towards supporting management and management of forest management to land new forests that will fill the forest fund and reduce deficits.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u109	I'm betting on the amendment of the 1445 People's Deputies of Gnatenka and his colleagues. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:48]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1467, Volosin Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u110	Thank you, Ruslan Alexanderovich. Once again, we're in this part, our faction is proposing a whole series of changes that are aimed at redistributing funds. So in the first part, as you've seen, we've required a reduction in the cost of maintaining a government apparatus, which is absolute cynicism to spend this enormous cost on all of these articles of general government and coordination in this area and in this area. And now we're proposing to increase the cost of socially important programs. In particular, this amendment proposes to increase the cost of drinking water in Ukraine. This is a hugely important question that is directly related to the health of our citizens. So please put her to the vote and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Amendment 1467 It's taken into account by the committee in part. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. So I'm voting on the author's proposal. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:06]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, Murmich Anatoly Petrovich, 1497
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I propose in Appendix 3 to the draft Budget Act that you add that you remove from the leadership and management of the development of communities and territories, reduce the costs by 50 million. We only give money to executives, only to officials. I propose that these 56 million be sent to the community to pay the tariff difference, what the government has promised and what is actually in place for people is the price of gas. Right this 50 million directly to make the difference so that people can survive in this winter that comes upon us. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u113	I bet on the vote of Amendment 1497. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:29]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 1508. The township Yuri Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u114	Thank you. Yuri Zagradny, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, when we read the President Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelensky's electoral programme with you again, it begins with the words: "I dream of Ukraine – and it is still written there – about Ukraine, where the main problem for a young family is where to choose a place of residence: outside the city or apartment in the city." But then I ask myself, ‘ Why are you reducing the funding of the State Youth Fund? ’ You don't run the election program of Vladimir Alexander Zelensky. Because of this, I propose that I be dismissed by you, along with the ruling of the Ukrainian national deputy Viktor Vladimirovich Medvedczuk, against whom you have violated illegal criminal matters, put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u115	Thank you. And so amendment 1508 is rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:59]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1511. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! Yuri Pavlenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." My bill also relates to an increase of 500 million dollars under the programme "Partial compensation for the interest rate on commercial banks to young families and single young citizens for construction (restruct) and housing." It's an extremely important social program. I fully support the arguments already made by my colleague Yuri Zagradny. I will remind my distinguished colleagues that at the time of this program, when I, for example, led the oversight board of this fund, more than 17,000 loans a year. Not only did this leave young people in Ukraine, but the existence of an apartment enabled them to feel full - time citizens and to form a successful future, such families had a marked increase in birth rates.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u117	I would like to vote on amendment 1511 of the People’s Deputy Paulie and other colleagues. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:29:36]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next 1520, Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u118	Moroz Volodymyr, Donetskina. When I read this amendment, I keep recalling that Victor Vladimirovich Medvedchuk and I were discussing today, which is illegally kept under house guard, we talked about what we need to build today's youth housing. And my 1520 bill says that we increase the statutory capital of the State Specialised Financial Institution, the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing, by 5 billion dollars. We all know today that I don't have a place for young people in Donetsk, Lugansk, Donetsk, this time. And secondly, many of today's many stories have been broken down by war. And there is no place for young people to live today. I ask you to support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u119	I would like to vote on the amendment of 1520 of the People's Deputies of Frost and colleagues. The committee proposes to reject this amendment. Please identify and vote. [[11:31:08]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1527, Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u120	Ruslan Alexiyovich, look, amendment 1527 is about making changes in Appendix 3 to the reduction of expenditure under line 2759010, this is "Leading and management in the field of architectural control and supervision." But for what purpose do we now consider these amendments and why we insist on voting? At the amendment of 1467, colleague Volosin had already mentioned that the state-wide targeted social program "The Drinking Water of Ukraine" needed critical funding. According to the Institute of Colloidal Chemistry and Water Chemistry of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, water is not suitable for consumption in virtually all cities of Ukraine. Moreover, according to various ratings and estimates, Ukraine is generally an unsecured water resource for one person. In this regard, the financing of such programs is related. I don't think anyone will even speak from a medical point of view about how water affects the body and human life. So from this point of view, the increase in water quality is fundamental.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, the amendment of 1527 by our colleague, Mr. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, and his colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. That's why I'm betting on the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:44]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1565, Gnatenko Valeriy Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Amendment 1565 plans such directions. In Appendix 3 to the draft law on the line, the number has to be channelled, costed, removed from the direction to finance the management and management of the agri-industrial complex, reduced funding by 31 million dollars. I propose that these funds be channelled to support the village in support of the small forms of property that are now working on the technology that is still in Soviet times. Support new forms of melioration, cooperatives of different fields in agriculture. This is the first thing you need to do is to allocate funds, not some administrative direction in the field of land administration. So I'm asking you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u123	I bet on the vote of amendment 1565 of the People's Deputies of Gnatenka and colleagues. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:34:10]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Next, 1573. Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u124	Thank you. This amendment is partially taken into account. But it's about spending an additional 600 million dollars to support agricultural producers, to support our farmers. And the government's recommendation, it actually means that this money is probably going to, with a high probability, make the Cabinet of Ministers look like they didn't find where to take it. Although this Supreme Council has already carried out this so - called reform, against which we have taken firm action, it is obliged to support our own domestic farmers in a difficult period of transition to the land market. It is our responsibility as parliamentarians. If we've already launched this so-called free market around the earth. Thank you. Please support this amendment as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u125	Thank you, Oleg Anatolyovich. Look, 1573 revisions, it's partially accounted for. The author insists on taking full account. So I'm making an offer from the author. Please identify and vote. [[11:35:33]] For-48 The edit remains partially accounted for. Next 1578. Murmich Anatoly Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, the earth’s market has begun to function today. And thank God you're allowed to sell at least 100 acres. Not 200,000, not 10,000, 100, thank God. And today, this creates a new market on earth and creates new farms. And in such a state, of course, they need to be supported. And so, as I join my colleague Oleg Volosin's speech, I also believe that we need to support this until the second stage of land reform opens up, the formation of strong farms. So I'm asking you to set aside 5 billion 600 million dollars to support the new farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u127	Amendment 1578 of the authorship of the People's Deputy, Burmić and colleagues. It's taken into account by the committee in part. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[11:37:16]] For-53 The decision is not taken. The correction remains partially accounted for. Amendment 1583. The township Yuri Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u128	Thank you. Yuri Zagradny, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". You know, in his time, German Chancellor Otto von Bismarck said these words: officials are drones that write laws that do not live by ordinary people. Why did the official’s salary become and not depend on how the common people live? It's like officials. Their wages depended on the standard of living of the people, so they would think more and write less unnecessary laws. Why did I bring these statements to Otto von Bismarck? Because you are again investing huge funds to maintain a bureaucratic apparatus, with 56 percent of Ukrainian pensioners having a pension that is below the real minimum of living in the country. We have 10 million pensioners in Ukraine today, nearly 6 million of whom are hungry. And you're increasing expenses on a bureaucratic machine. That's why I'm editing and editing Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u129	Amendment 1583, it was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:47]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1592. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u130	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Yuri Pavlovenko. The amendment is another right to the state budget project, where we answer, and where do we get the money for higher pensions, higher minimum living? Where do you get the money for the Childbirth Assistance program and the increase in these family support costs? Where can you get money for housing for young families? Here's what we're proposing is more than one amendment by reducing spending on government equipment. And this applies to a reduction of 100 million -- governance, fisheries management. Please support, and these funds are needed by Ukrainians today to redistribute to the programs they are waiting for.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u131	I bet on the vote amendment of the 1592 National MP Pauleska with her colleagues, she was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:40:13]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1596, People's Deputy Moroz Volodymir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u132	Moroz Volodymyr, 59 constituency, Donetskina, Opposition Platform for Life. I've got a lot of military-civil O.T.A. in the county where there's no income part of the budget at all. People don't know where to take the money and how to survive in these conditions, when they're at war today, when they don't have COVID today, and we can't find the funds for these communities because they don't have the budget. And so instead of giving the incomprehensible management of the information center, I would give these funds to the communities they need. And that's why I'm asking you to reduce this cost of managing the transformation by 63 million, almost 64 million, and hand over to the people who are at war today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u133	Thank you. I'm voting on amendment 1596. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:41:43]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1621. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u134	Thank you, Mr. Head. 1621 is about to make changes to Appendix 3 of the State Budget Act, to make changes to the general management and management of infrastructure. I told you there's a budget deficit, I said there are serious borrowings, but you mean that we have these borrowings, they don't go untraceable. Now, in the draft budget, you're already determining that the amount of sovereign and state-guaranteed debt will be as much as 3 by the end of December, almost 3.1 trillion dollars, this is now 2.5. Imagine how government-guaranteed debt increases, 571 billion dollars of borrowing, or 1.2 trillion dollars of income. So these numbers are unacceptable to the national economy. You've accumulated so much debt that in the dollar equivalent you've already increased it from 82 to almost 92, and that's a constant increase. So from this point of view, this budget is unacceptable and you have to review the expenditure portion of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u135	I would like to vote on the amendment of 1,621 people's deputies Koltunović and colleagues. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:43:13]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1645. Gnatenko Valeriy Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u136	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Regulation 1645. Many nations around the world dream of going out to sea. Our nation has two exits and two seas, which are unfortunately not used by nearly 10 percent. And so it's suggested in this direction that we redirect the funds from financing the management and management of maritime and river transport, and reduce them by 16 million, and send them to the equipment and repair of the moving alloy that is now in our ports that have been standing for years. And today we are sailing in other different states to do the tasks that our nation faces in steaming. So I would like you to support this exercise in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u137	I bet on the vote of amendment 1645 of the People's Deputies of Gnatenka with colleagues. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:44:37]] For-44 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1650. Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u138	Thank you. This amendment proposes to take away exactly 3 million dollars. So yesterday we talked about what we didn't get, and the committee disagreed with something to support the allocation of 3 million dollars to repair the unique observatory in my native Santa. And here we're allocating 3 million dollars in an important direction, such as leadership and management in the area of tourism. What could be a tourist in a land that is closed to the meadow? In a country that has no idea how people will live in the winter that can be managed by tourism? You know, Osip Emilovich Mandelstam wrote specifically for you, and I hope you know who this is: "We live beneath ourselves without hearing the country." This is a case that was totally torn away from real power, completely ripped away from the reality of most people. You know, it's a popular phrase here, it's simpler, it's ordinary, it's a folk thing, I don't want to talk about it, but go outside and feel this country, it's not a tourist development at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u139	Amendment 1650. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:45:59]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1661. Murmich Anatoly Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, listen to where the people's money is spent: "Organizational provision of infrastructure projects." Excuse me, if an infrastructure project exists and is approved, what more organizational security do they need? And that's exactly what it takes for those officials, those bribes and lobbyists who have to be distributed in order to push out an infrastructure project. If it is useful for Ukraine, it should not be pushed or bribed, or even more from the budget to spend money on these bribes. And so I'm going to propose to cut by 5.8 million dollars their retention and to send these funds where they really are needed, for medicine or for teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u141	Thank you. Amendment 1661. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:47:26]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Next, 1664. The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u142	Thank you. Yuri Zagradny, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, look what we've got going on, today 56 percent of Ukrainian pensioners have an extremely low pension and not more than 3,000 dollars, which is lower than the real cost of living. Underfunded medicine, it's not close enough for medicine. The budget we're looking at is about 100 billion dollars. But once again, we're spending on increasing the funding and maintenance of the bureaucratic apparatus. You know, back in 2014, Victor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk, the Ukrainian national deputy against whom you illegally committed criminal cases, proposed, developed and proposed to society a formula for national success that envisions joint work of power and civil society to raise the standard of living and well-being of every Ukrainian. But this budget that we are looking at today is far from being a national budget and leading to an improvement in the lives of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u143	I would like to vote on amendment 1664 of the People's Deputy of Zagradny and colleagues. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:49:04]] For-41 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1673. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u144	Thank you, Mr. Head. Yuri Pavlenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I propose this amendment to create a new budget programme and to allocate an additional 43.5 million dollars to the capital repair of the M-03 road, which is Kiev-Harkov, in the Kharkiv region. I'm sure it's time to finish the repairs on this highway. And where to get the money and. taking the money is to support any of the previous ten amendments where we suggested cutting costs to the state apparatus. To cut down on the state apparatus, but eventually to complete the construction of the road of full Kiev Kharkiv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u145	Thank you. 1673 amendment rejected by the committee. The author insists on taking her into account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[11:50:27]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1677. Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u146	Moroz Volodymir, 59 constituency, Donetskina. Please tell me, what's the amendment, 1745?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u147	No, 1677.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u148	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. In Appendix 3, increase expenditures to the State Agency for Motorways of Ukraine under the new budget programme "Additional funding" to carry out capital repairs of the M20 public road on 12 plus 120 kilometers, 12 plus 620 kilometers, and allocate an additional 80 million 700,000 dollars to this route. Because the road has already gone bad and needs to be repaired. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u149	Amendment 1677 of the People's Deputy of Frost and Colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. So please identify and vote. [[11:51:50]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 1679. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u150	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. It is proposed that this amendment reduce by 28.8 million dollars the cost of management and management in the area of construction, repair, and maintenance of automobiles. There is no way out of the highway for programs that build roads, although there are separate amendments. I'd like to point out that in the deficit budget we have extremely low social parameters. We counted them in the dollar equivalent from that indicator you proposed. You're offering a living minimum of $83 in the 22nd year and a minimum pension of $67. In doing so, by the year 24, according to the Budget Declaration, the subsistence minimum will be increased from 83, which you suggest, to 95, and the minimum pension will be from $67 to $77. So these are numbers that, in a mild sense, don't even reflect inflationary devaluation fluctuations. For example, comparing the level of purchasing power of people with the minimum fixed income. The minimum of living was in the 13th year 147.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u151	Amendment 1679 was rejected by the committee, while author Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich insists on taking it into account. I'm betting on the author's offer. Please identify and vote. [[11:53:26]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 1693. Gnatenko Valérie
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u152	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. "The Opposition Platform for Life", Donetsk Region, Gnatenko. Amendment 1693 is proposed in the following direction: This is the youth and sports leadership to reduce 32 million dollars. We know that a healthy nation is a normal healthy youth, and past Olympics have shown how promising our young people are. But the absence of normal training bases, especially in small cities, is the first thing to pay attention to. Stadiums, sports complexes, not funding administrators and coordinators who are spending money today. That's what we need, I'm sure, to redirect our funds so that there are promising young people and perspectives that unfortunately today fall out of our youth and sports support program. Please support this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u153	Amendment 1693 of the People’s Deputy of Gnatenka and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:54:58]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 1730, Volosin Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u154	Again, it's the same story. Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The same story: Finance management and management is proposed to reduce spending by 239 million dollars. That's perfectly logical, because we have a committee in all the other articles that took on something the Ministry of Finance in this case, which is constantly trying to save money, and actually just distribute it in a way that's convenient to the government. He refuses to finance many socially meaningful articles and especially adequate health care, but he is willing to make such colossal funds available to the Ministry of Finance on his own. This is unacceptable. Again, I urge you to be absolutely responsible. The big crisis in the country, we can't afford to pretend that nothing's happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u155	I'm betting on a vote of 1,730 amendments to the authorship of Hair and colleagues. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:18]] For-45 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1733. Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I fully support what colleague Oleg Volosin said. I'll tell you more, we don't have a financial policy in the country. We have all the financial policy to take credit, steal money, and then translate it into citizens' minds through space tariffs. That's the whole financial policy, you know? And to support this, to feed this kind of financiers, I think it's not that it's stupid, it's criminal, but I think the state needs to first identify itself in its financial policy, and then prepare the right frame under it, which isn't just to steal or take credit, but really to pursue such a policy that we're independent and sovereign. That is why I propose to withdraw 50 million dollars from this article and send them to people’s subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u157	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 1731. Excuse me, 1733. 1733, amendment of the People's Deputy of Burmić and colleagues. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[11:57:57]] For-44 The decision is not taken. 1736. The township Yuri Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u158	Thank you. Yuri Zagradny, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life." Ruslan Alexiyovich, I address you first because the hall is still not listening. This amendment is extremely important, it is my right and the right of the Ukrainian national deputy Victor Vladimirovich Medvedczuk, who is suggesting that we increase the funding of the Enterprise Development Fund. You know, in his pre-election program, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelensky said that he did. wrote that his presidency in Ukraine could not be led by honest business. As President of Ukraine, he will be a guarantor for every businessman. And he said, first of all, he would support and do everything to make small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine. But why, then, does the question arise, a fine remedy to support entrepreneurship, and the committee rejects it? I think we need to support her. And I am addressing you, Ruslan Alexiyovich, say, please, the words of the will regarding the vote of this amendment, "please support and vote." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u159	Dear Yuri Ivanovich, the codes have changed, no one will speak like that anymore. That's why I'm putting this amendment to the vote. The 1736 amendment of Zagradni Jury Ivanovich and her colleagues, unfortunately rejected by the committee. That's why I'm asking you to vote. [[11:59:38]] For-46 The decision is not taken. And we'll have one more. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, please. 1739.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u160	Thank you, Mr. Head. Yuri Pavlovenko. But please pass on the word of the final amendment to today's Alexander Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u161	Alexander Koltunović, please try to make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u162	Ruslan Alexiyovich, look, why don't we take this budget? Because I said in my previous speech, you're giving people a minimum pension of 67 dollars, while 13 was 119. It's almost twice the level of purchasing power. Why do we not accept this budget? Because these subsidies and in other ways are unacceptable. Budget policy on local self - government also lacks fiscal decentralization. The share of local income was 28 percent and remains at that level, and inter-budget transfers have been cut. Instead of making, changing the economic course, changing the fiscal policy, you've come up with nothing but to do illegal things. Criminal cases against Victor Medvedchuk are being fabricated, unlawful persecution is being carried out, sanctions are being imposed, without a court decision, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine against Ukrainian citizens. Our party will continue to insist that the budget be popular. And our steps will go.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u163	12:01, we vote at 12:30. Thank you, Your Honor. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, recess is over. We're continuing our work. Before we broke off, we discussed thoroughly the amendment of the 1,739 people’s MEP Pauline and her colleagues. Now, with your permission, I'll bet. I remind you that she was rejected by the committee. The author insists on taking her into account. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:30:59]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 1745, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u165	Moroz Volodymyr, 59 constituency, Donetskina, Opposition Platform for Life. Amendment 1745, which says that we have to take away the administration in the area of financial control, the costs and reduce them by 315 million 234 thousand. Let me get this straight. Seeing how financial monitoring works today, especially in the area where I work, I see that there is no control. We increase their expenses, we give them millions, and as the people say, we don't see any exhaust from their work. And that's why I'm asking you to make my application, vote for it. These funds are better spent on frontal areas where people today live without a budget and have no means of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u166	Thank you. 1745 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Frost and Colleagues The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[12:32:29]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Amendment 1750. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I have already begun to speak in part in my previous speech. tell, excuse me, that we have what social parameters are unacceptable. But I wanted to, given that actually half of the Supreme Council without a kid was going to major districts. I would like to say that listen to these figures, that the share of the local budget's own income is 24.8 percent in Ukraine's budget. In the 13th year, before the reform, there were also 24 percent, in the past, 23.3 percent. So you're told that we're giving you financial resources at places, and actually at comparable prices, not at comparable prices, but if you take the amount you're drinking, it doesn't go up. If we take the inflation-debalt spiral, the inflation-debalt spiral, it's essentially going to go down in dollars, it's going to go down. If you take inter-budget transfers, they're also shrinking. So when you vote for the budget, keep in mind that your budget decentralization doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u168	I would like to vote on the amendment of the 1750 people's deputies Koltunović and colleagues. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:34:02]] For-36 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1757. Gnatenko Valeriy Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u169	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. "The Opposition Platform for Life", Gnatenko, Donetsk Region. Amendment 1757 refers to tax policy management and management. And it's suggested that we reduce these directions. Why, I'll explain. We see that our nation is becoming a police state. And in this budget, there's increasing funding for control agencies and law enforcement agencies. And these organs, like rubble, attacked one of our leaders, Victor Medvedchuk. And we don't see in that sense at all, and the law is the basis for the kind of weed that goes with Victor Medvedchuk today. And that's exactly what this is about. We have become a police state that does not carry out its direct functions but performs some special tasks that are personal.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u170	Amendment of 1757 of the People’s Deputy of Gnatenka and colleagues. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:35:32]] For-38 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1758. Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, look at the cost article. Text: "Leading and management of public debt policies." It's not enough that this is some kind of no-good chancellor, but it's just some kind of bullying. Thus, when literally just arrived, for example, reports on Kyivtépénergo’s website that they directly say that coal reserves are critical and that they warn all Kievers of the need to prepare. Well, they're called "implementing a cut-off schedule for electricity consumption," in fact, a screw-off of electricity here in Kiev: in the Supreme Council, in your homes. I don't know, the generators must have bought someone from us, but this won't actually save at these oil prices. In these circumstances, we continue to spend money on the cause of what, well, government debt management, which is in itself a disgrace to this authority. If you don't know Mandelstam, think about the show you know. Winter's near, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u172	1758. This is the authorship of Hair and colleagues. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[12:37:00]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 1760, Burmese.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, we have been destroyed in the country by effective financial monitoring and control. As early as the 16th year, the Ministry of Finance was destroyed, the audit service, where 15,000 people worked, auditors. To date, 300 people have built such an auditorium. They can't do an audit, they can't do anything. And that shows on the same thing "Rotterdam Plus," they did anything, and they didn't. This is what we see in the same falsified cases as Victor Medvedchuk, where we sucked some damage out of his finger that doesn't exist at all. We need to reform first, we need to create an active financial control service, and then we need to allocate funds. And that's why I'm offering these managers a 50 million-dollar cut in funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u174	Amendment of 1760 of the Burmić People’s Deputy and Colleagues, rejected by the Committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:38:32]] For-42 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1765. The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u175	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Yuri Zagradny, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". You know, one more time, I want to address President Vladimir Alexander Zelensky's pre-election program. The beginning of the program, "I dream about Ukraine where Grandma won't get a heart attack from a utility bill." But you know, with the current level of pension provision for our citizens of Ukraine of the older generation and gas prices and tariffs for the consumption of residential services, Grandma will receive not only a heart attack but also a stroke. Why did I bring this? You are once again increasing the cost of obtaining a bureaucratic device, including increasing the cost of $1 billion and 120 million to maintain management in the field of justice. We're just suggesting that we just take this out and transfer it to subsidies because the budget subsidy in 2022 is shrinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u176	I bet on the vote of 1765 the amendment of the people's deputy of Zagradny and colleagues. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:03]] For-45 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1774. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u177	Yes, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Yuri Pavlenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." I will remind my colleagues that according to the Association of Ukrainian Cities, the education grant in this project is underfunded by 38 billion. This means that, as in previous years, teachers will not raise the minimum wage, as promised, to four minimums of living, plus internship allowances, categories, extra fees for young teachers, everything will remain exclusively as a promise that is not fulfilled year after year. So my amendment is about getting money to finance education to support the teacher today. Reduced expenditure on government equipment. Please support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u178	I am voting on the amendment of the 1774 People’s Deputy Pauline and colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:41:23]] For-48 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1784. Moroz Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u179	Moroz Volodymyr, 59 constituency, Donetskina, Opposition Platform for Life. We're always talking about how we need to increase the cost of maintaining leadership in culture and information policy. This is how we see this information policy that is hurting our leader, Viktor Vladimirovich Medvedchuk, who is closing our Ukrainian channels today. Why should we give them these funds in order for them to lie throughout the country? And that's why I'm proposing that the management of culture and information policy should cut the cost by 38 million 723 thousand and transfer these funds to children on the collision line, to children who are now suffering from war and have no money to live properly in our country, in our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u180	The amendment of the 1784 People’s Deputy of Frost and colleagues, the committee suggests that it be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:54]] For-46 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 1823. Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u181	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, I would like to transmit the amendment to Natalia Royal, which is also the co-author of the amendment block. If you don't mind, I'll give her my word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u182	Yes, of course you can. I'm just asking for the future, a little less representation, or you'll continue to represent it. And here, of course, is Natalia Royal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u183	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! The Opposition Platform Team is trying to reach the common sense of majority on another occasion. Sadly, though, it is very difficult to reach out to him if there is no sense. Because we see that our monopoly in Parliament, the Ukrainian authorities today have completely lost their sense of reality. What do you do? You are engaged in the political persecution of Victor Medvedchuk, the head of the political tradition of our party. You are now engaged in the destruction of total freedom of speech in the country. Because it is a crime against the people of Ukraine to accept such a budget, to consider it no longer the first time. If you do not know how to do things, you better write a statement and leave parliament, not cover your nonsense with political repression and complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u184	Amendment 1823. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:44:46]] For-46 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 1847. Gnatenko Valeriy Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear Chairman, amendment 1847. It is proposed to increase the amount of 9 million, 602,000, to television management and management. It's not clear what it's like in a state that shuts down the opposition channels, which in general shuts down freedom of speech and now calculates how to close down the cables, to increase this direction to finance this disgraceful governing body, which shuts down, offers proposals to close the main channels of our own. That's why we're proposing the sum of 9 million 700,000 to get out of this direction and give young people and sport to develop in our country. Thank you. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u186	Amendment 1847. The committee's dismissed. Please identify and vote. [[12:46:08]] For-49 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 1864. Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, look again, five million with a hook of millions for administration in the field of ethnopolitics and freedom of conscience. Freedom is-- there is no conscience. Here's the news of our town again. Just now, the deputy head of the Kiev City Administration stated that from tomorrow all schools in Kiev for at least two weeks, i.e. they don't even know how long, they go on vacation. This, by the way, refers to everyone who has children of school age here, it's not just our citizens who aren't very concerned, it's you. It is not clear, then, whether they will return from these holidays at least for remote learning. They say it's because of COVID. Ok, with COVID, the situation is dramatic, but we also realize that there is nothing to burn down schools. And in these conditions, we give an additional 5 million to some kind of leadership and control of freedom of conscience. Once again, freedom is-- there is no conscience. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u188	I'm betting on the vote of amendment 1864. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:47:34]] For-40 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 1874. Murmich Anatoly Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, in fact in Ukraine, and not only in Ukraine, even in the city of Kiev, there are no free art institutions left for children to learn either music or other art. But nevertheless, leadership is and leadership is well funded. Probably for these ruins, because they just want to get the money, and everyone has to pay for it all in their little pocket. That's why I'm proposing to these managers that we cut 6 million dollars off and that we actually send these funds to children's schools for free getting either music or other education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u190	I'm betting on the vote of amendment 1874. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:48:55]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 1870, Zagradni Yuri Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u191	Thank you. Yuri Zagradny, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life." This is a new law, a joint law of the Ukrainian national deputy Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich, whose rights are limited to violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, when the leadership of the State initiated a criminal offence against him, and the Ukrainian national deputy of the Ukraine of the city of Jury Ivanovich. With this right, we suggest simply that the cost of maintaining leadership and managing cinematography should be diverted to ordinary directors, to supporting cinematographers in order to actually produce real Ukrainian art films in Ukraine. This is very important, and so I ask that we put this paper together with Victor Vladimirovich Medvedchuk to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u192	I'm voting on the amendment of 1870 of the Zagradny People's Deputies along with my colleagues. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:50:20]] For-44 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 1889. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u193	Yuri Pavlenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." This budget can also be referred to as the underfunding budget for local self-government. I would like to remind you that three fourths of the local budgets were and remain subsidized according to this State Budget project. In the 22nd year, according to government proposals, the basic budget grant will receive 1,000 89 local budgets out of 1 thousand 462. At this point, the level of subsidies is not significant, but it's increasing compared to the 20th. The share of the local budget's own revenues in the budget remains extremely low, and in the 22nd year, the government is offering 24.8 percent. Let me remind you that in the 13th year, it was 23.8 to all of these so-called decentralization reforms. So this is talking about the complete failure of decentralization policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u194	Correction of the 1889 People's Deputy Pauline and colleague. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:52]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Amendment 1891. Frost Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u195	Please give it to the Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u196	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, you're spending money on protecting a cultural heritage here, but we all understand very well that when a country is built where there is no democracy today, where there is no freedom of speech today, where there is political persecution and political repression, and we see it as no other political team, when the leader of our political tradition of Victor Medvedczuk's party is illegally held under house arrest, depriving him of his right to engage fully in political activity, it's like a joke today when you're forcing people to live on a pension of 2,000 dollars, depriving them of their subsidies. That is why we require a thorough review of this budget. Create a support budget today.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u198	I'm willing to vote on the amendment of 1891 to the National Deputy of the Royal and Colleagues. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[12:53:28]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 1942, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to point out that the 1942 amendment concerns what we propose in Appendix 3 of the draft State Budget Act for 2022. In particular, in line 6321010, which deals with ensuring the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, we propose to reduce the cost of NABU by 353.5 million dollars. I think it's no secret to anyone that those anti-corruption bodies that were created have completely discredited themselves. Those anti-corruption bodies that have sought to recover funds stolen from the national economy today are engaged in political raids, political persecutions and illegal persecutions, including with regard to members of our party, Victor Medvedchuk, and other members of the Ukraine. So from this point of view, in our view, the decrease in the expenditure of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine in the deficit budget of 188 billion dollars, in the budget that borrows 571 billion dollars, is a reasonable norm and needs your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u200	I'm betting on the 1942 vote to amend the people's deputy, Koltunović, along with my colleagues. The committee proposes to reject it. Please identify and vote. [[12:55:03]] For-43 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 1944. Please, Gnutenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u201	Please give my word to my colleague, Royal Natalia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u202	Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, this amendment is still proposed. Maybe it's very funny in this room. Here our deputies are applauding, laughing, they're doing well because they're not interested in what they're talking about. It's about the budget. And now we're looking at the amendment you're proposing to increase the funding of our so-called anti-corruption bodies. But we all know the more money you spend on fighting corruption, the more corruption in our country. Therefore, our team today proposes to fight corruption to start with the elections in our country, to re-elect this corrupt parliament, this corrupt government, to take over that power that began political persecution today in the country, and set this goal of its activity, the persecution of Medvedchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u204	I'm betting on the vote for the 1944 amendment. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:43]] For-38 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1757. Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u205	Ruslan Alexiyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u206	I'm sorry, I guess.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u207	1757, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u208	Yeah, 1757.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u209	Just break the numbers there. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I'm here to see you as a smart person, who I'm obviously hoping has a conscience. What's going on? It's just some kind of plague feast. They run with bouquets that, under the cameras, look at the entire country, whose value is higher than that of ambulances today in the hospital. You have a conscience, take them to the cemetery, where today's turn of the catacombs stands, according to a colleague of yours. As a matter of fact, conscience has already been lost. And where do the authorities in the fight against corruption look? A constant holiday here, the bouquets they're pulling when people don't know what to eat, what to pay for utilities, they're having a green holiday here because yesterday they don't know who they were, and today they're getting big money. I propose this right to cut the cost by 3 billion 222 million dollars for the tax service -- a service that our people love very much, so to speak, and to send this money right over to other articles on which there are proposals from me and other colleagues for a real fight against COVID. Then we can really have both flowers and holidays, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u210	Lies down Anatolyovich, look, there's a malfunction in that list that you're on for me. Amendment 1757 has already been voted down and rejected. That's why there's this proposal: to follow the number that there is, and now to vote in favour of the 1953 amendment, and to continue to follow that list. And then we'll figure out the order in. What's that? 1903. I'm going to see if we've voted it out, too. 1903. Now, one second. 1903. Yeah, let me put it to a vote in 1903. Dear colleagues, please identify and vote. She's been rejected by the committee. [[12:59:15]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Correction rejected. The next 1913, I understand correctly, we'll go there. 1913, Burmich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u211	1758.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, we also voted in 1758. So let's just put some order in the numbering, and we'll go after those amendments, because twice already, it's already a little bit of a break. Please, 1913, Murmich Anatoly Petrovich. We've got all the moves written down here, honestly.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, as of today, we know what the situation is in the field of nuclear regulation, half the blocks are standing, and we are paying for these thefts in nuclear power, precisely because we had to channel funds to do repairs on time, so we're doing them. You stole them. And today we see that half the nuclear reactors are standing. That's why it's so expensive. And you're giving these thieves, who need to be put in jail, any more financial detention? They're needed. investigate him. Not by opposition, not by Victor Medvedchuk, but by these leaders. And that's why I think 23 million, you have to cut them down and set them up to fight COVID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u214	I bet on the vote of amendment 1913 of the People's Deputy, Burmić and colleagues. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll make it. 1:00 p.m., here we go. [[13:01:14]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we are moving on to making inquiries. Olena Kostvena, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, we have many votes. You've raised a lot of parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine. Thus, 98 parliamentary inquiries were made during the plenary week. These include: 5 parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine; 1 parliamentary request to the authorities of the Supreme Council; 44 parliamentary requests to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; 33 to the heads of other public authorities and local self-government bodies; and to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, irrespective of their subordination and forms of ownership, 15. In the past plenary weeks, 107 parliamentary requests have remained unannounced, including 13 parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine. A total of 205 parliamentary inquiries were made for the announcement. Thus, honourable national MPs view the open-ended roll-call vote in support of Anatolia Burmić's request to the President of Ukraine for a national award to Usik Alexander Alexandrovich. Please vote. [[13:02:51]] For 212 Decision taken. It is up to the vote to decide to refer a previous parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't interfere with the vote, everybody knows how to vote. [[13:03:16]] For 233 Decision taken. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request by Vladimir Ariev to the President of Ukraine for the absence of information from President Vladimir Zelenski about the appropriate parts of offshore companies. Please vote. [[13:03:52]] For-59 The decision is not taken. By factions, please show me. People's deputies, please. There is an open-ended vote in support of Dennis Herman's request to the President of Ukraine for electric tariffs for the population. Please vote. [[13:04:25]] For 212 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:04:48]] For 223 The decision is not taken. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of the request by Dmitri Lubintz to the President of Ukraine for the non-admission of further increases in municipal tariffs. Please vote. [[13:05:18]] For 214 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:05:45]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you. It is an open-ended vote in support of Larissa Bilozer's request to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine to the Director-General of the National Institute of Hearts of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, a member of the correspondent NAMN of Ukraine, a doctor of medical sciences, Professor Todurovo Boris Mihajlovich. Please vote. [[13:06:30.]] For 248 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please, let's vote. [[13:06:56]] For 255 Decision taken. Congratulations to Larissa Bilozer. It is an open-ended vote to support the request by Sergey Vlasenka to the President of Ukraine for organizing and holding a competition to elect judges from the European Court of Human Rights from Ukraine to comply with the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights and the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Please vote. An important question. [[13:07:39]] For-173 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:08:03]] For-149 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. Thank you. An open-ended roll-call vote supports Solomonia Bobrowski's request to the President of Ukraine for the introduction of special restrictive measures (sanctions) to the citizen of the Russian Federation, Orlov Aleksandra Mihajlovich. Please vote. [[13:08:40]] For 122 The decision is not taken. There is an open-ended vote in support of Igor Vasiliev's request to the President of Ukraine for the release of the Director of the State Enterprise "Guaranteed Buyer" of Petrikovets K.J. caused damage to the enterprise as a result of the implementation of electricity at a reduced price. Please vote. [[13:09:22]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Yes, dear colleagues, there is an open-ended vote in support of Maxim Zujov's request to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the status of the National Novgorod-Several Cultural Museum "The Word of the Igorvi Regiment." Please vote. [[13:09:56]] For 271 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:10:20]] For 280 Decision taken. The next MP's request is for an open nominee vote, supporting the request by Vladimir Wiatrovic to the President of Ukraine for the assignment (after death) of the Hero of Ukraine with the award of the Golden Star Order to the youngest participant in the anti-terrorist operation, a volunteer, a participant in the Dignity Revolution, and the Toropovian George Valeriyovich. Please vote. [[13:11:05]] For 256 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:11:27]] For 260 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. There is an open-ended vote in support of Geo Leros' request to the President of Ukraine for the temporary transfer of the Office of the President of Ukraine to the Bank to the offshore jurisdiction of President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:12:03]] For-37 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Thank you. There is an open-ended vote in favour of Geo Leros's request to the President of Ukraine for the removal of Ukrainian citizenship from Ukraine of the head of the Presidential faction David Arahami for contempt of the Ukrainians, who claims that every Ukrainian has corruption in DNA. Please vote. [[13:12:43]] For-21 Decision taken. No, I'm sorry. David Georgievich, nothing personal. An open-ended roll-call vote supports the request of a group of national deputies (Kingdom, Solod, and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine reiterating the rights of citizens in the area of social protection. Please vote. [[13:13:23]] For-90 The decision is not taken. There is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of the request by Vladen Nekludova to the President of Ukraine for the imposition of sanctions against the companies of the Roschen Conditioning Corporation for financing the budget of the aggressor state, the Russian Federation. What didn't I make you, Roshan? Vote, Your Honor. [[13:14:04]] For-153 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:14:29]] For-163 The decision is not taken. By factions, please show me. Thank you. Dear colleagues, a moment more attention. It is an open-ended vote in support of Alexi Honcharenko's request to the President of Ukraine for the appointment by the President of Ukraine of the People's Deputies of Ukraine of Leros Geo Bagratovitch of the honorary title "Deserved Inventory of Ukraine" as a person who deserves to develop inventions in the field of the use of the instrument of parliamentary inquiry in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vote. [[13:15:25]] For-64 The decision is not taken. It is an open-ended vote to support Alexi Honcharenko's request to the President of Ukraine for the appointment by the President of Ukraine of citizens of Belarus and the Russian Federation of Lukashenko Alexander Grigorovich and Putin Volodymyrovich of honorary titles "Deserved Energy of Ukraine" for significant success in implementing plans to restore imports into Ukraine of electricity from Belarus and Russia. Well, these are our Friday questions. Please vote. [[13:16:11]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. It's an open-ended roll-call vote. It's not all national MPs yet. There is an open-ended roll vote in support of Geo Leros' request to the President of Ukraine for permission to allow "servants", without the master's knowledge of the Bank, to go on the air of Ukrainian television channels. Please vote. [[13:16:47]] For-31 The decision is not taken. An open-ended roll-call vote is supported by the request of a group of national deputies (Pipsy, Poturayev and others). Only 15 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the assignment of the title Hero of Ukraine with the honour of the Golden Star Order for the heroic act of Simcic Miroslav Vasilovich. Please vote. [[13:17:26]] For 232 Decision taken. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:17:51]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, these are all parliamentary requests to the President. And then we go to read the questions, and then we have the Miscellaneous, remember, we have a full procedure today. If you don't mind, with respect to the presiding officer, quietly leave the hall, who doesn't stay on the question of "It's different." So it's the questions of the national MPs. Oleg Meidić to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the need to address the issue of violations of legislation in a competition to replace the vacant post of the head of the Tetian University Institute of Secondary Education with the number 2 Tetian City Council. Oleg Meidić to the Tetian City Head for the failure to provide comprehensive information on the holding of a competition to replace the vacant post of the headmaster of the Tetian Academy of Secondary Education by the Tetian City Council No. 2 Alexander Sukhova to Rubižan City Head of the Lugansk Region, head of the Lugansk Regional Military and Civil Administration for information on the reconstruction of Rubižan Special School I-III, grade 7 of the Rubižan City Council and the periods of correction of deficiencies. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the National Police of Ukraine on the protection of constitutional rights and the inviolability of housing. Alexander Tkachenka to the Attorney General’s Office regarding the provision of information on the use of the prosecutor’s response. Alexander Tkachenka to the Ukrainian State Audit Service for providing information on the results of State financial control. Alexander Tkachenka to the State Agency for Agriculture and Fisheries of Ukraine, the State Audit Service of Ukraine, the State Water Agency of Ukraine for Public Information. Alexander Ponomarrow to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the start-up and continuous passage of the heating season in the city of Berdjansk Zaporijska region. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the procedure for the review of the draft Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the approval of the procedure for payment of pensions (annual life support) which has not been paid for a period up to a month of renewal to internally displaced persons. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on information and awareness-raising measures taken for officials of central and local authorities regarding the need for vaccination. Oleg Kulinić to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the formal clarification of the payment order for the provision of gas consumed according to the counter indicators and the possibility of regulating the mechanism for the implementation of a triangular beast with the aim of decommissioning. Dmitry Black to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of funding in the full range of psychological interns. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for clarification on the procedure for the conduct of the military medical commission to candidates for military service under contract from 35 years of age or older. Groups of National Deputies (Tkachenka, Shinkarenka, Slavicka) to the State Service of Ukraine on geodesy, cartography and cadastre regarding the use of measures for the state registration of land. Groups of National Deputies (Gerashchenko, Fedina and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent resolution of the issue of military service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, other legislation-based military formations of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Fedina and others) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney-General to provide a legal assessment of the obstacles to journalistic activity for journalists of the scheme: corruption in detail. Groups of National Deputies (Paulenka, Savrasova and others) to the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine on the situation of crossing the state border of Ukraine by a Ukrainian citizen, head of the National Reform Board and the Office of the Basic Decisions and Results of M. Saakashvili. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Pavlovka and others) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on providing information on the circumstances of the crossing of the state border of Ukraine by a citizen of Ukraine, the Head of the Office of the National Council for Reform and the Office of Simple Decisions and Results of Saakashvili. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Pavelenka and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Supervisory Board of the Association of Shareholders of the "State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine" on the inadequacy of the head of the Government of the Ukreximbank Association, Metzger Yevgen Volodymirovich-occupied office. Sergija Stepa to perform the duties of Zaporezki’s city head as to the need to allocate funds from the city budget to carry out capital repairs on the streets of Mirna, Božena, Rajewski, in the Shevchenkov district of Zaporozhye. Dmitry Lubinz to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the repair of the road to the general use of the local value of Pavlovka – Petrovka – /N-20/. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Energy of Ukraine, the head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Utilities, the head of the Lvivgaz Association of Shareholders on the unscrupulous actions of the employees of the Brdovian UGG in the Lviv region as a result of the replacement of the gas counter. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Attorney-General on the improper investigation of criminal acts committed by police officers of Department 1 (city of Vishneve) of the District Office of the HUNP Police in the Kyiv region in relation to the citizen of Azerbaijan. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for Delaying the Investigation of Possible Offences by Police Department No. 1 (city of Vishneve) of the District Office of the HUNP Police in the Kyiv region in relation to the citizen of Azerbaijan. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the results of the official investigation into the possible unlawful actions of police officers of Division No. 1 (city of Vishneve) of the District Office of the HUNP Police in the Kyiv region in relation to the citizen of Azerbaijan. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Attorney General for prolonged criminal investigation. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Attorney General about the job of damaging the business reputation of a legal person. Alexia Zmerenecki to the head of the Kyiv City Prosecutor's Office on the inaction of the District Attorney's Office in Kiev, the Police Department of Kiev and the Police Department of the National Police Department in Kiev. Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Road Service in Volinsky district for the installation of traffic lights in the village of the town type Manievich Volinsk district. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the Tsuma Desert National Park of the Volin Region. Alexia Ustenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General, on a possible conspiracy between representatives of the law enforcement authorities of the Zolitani region and the former head of the Lukashiv Rural Council of Korshunov M.V. In order to avoid any last responsibility for possible corruption. Alexia Ustenko to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the suspicion of a corruption conspiracy between the officials of the Luxembourg Rural Council and the winners of the trade during public purchases between April 18th and October 20th, which caused the state and city budget losses. Alexia Ustenko to the Attorney General for the unlawful actions of officials of the Poltava District Attorney’s Office. Anton Yatzenka to the State Service of Ukraine for work on the implementation of State control measures on the enforcement of legislation on work in part of payment of salaries of DP DAK "Ukrainian Bread" "Potashian Bread Company". Julius Ovovnikov to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the actions of law enforcement authorities in the case of the destruction of dentists. Oksana Savichuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the lower price of natural gas for religious organizations. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to remove bureaucratic coalitions in the context of synchronization of electronic hospital citizens with databases of individual state institutions. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problem of under-receiving local budgets from excise taxes made in Ukraine and imported into the customs territory of Ukraine of fuel. Igor Guza to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Volin District State Administration on the need to include KNP "Novolin Central City Hospital" in the list of Volin County facilities designated for hospitalization of patients with COVID-19. Roman Lozinski to the head of the Zaporozhye District Council, head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration for the preservation of the hospital for ATO/OOS veterans. Tarasa Batenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine to update information on the number of people available in the planning of transfers to local budgets. Taras Batenka, head of the Lviv District State Administration, head of the Lviv Road Service in the Lviv region for road painting through the village of Pomorjana Lviv district. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to contribute to the financing of the project entitled "Capital repair of the Jarmoline plant of general secondary education, I-III degrees in the street of Pushkin, 6 in the village of the city type Jarmolinz". Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the implementation of the temporary implementation of the pilot project for the submission to the State Land Inventory of Information on Land Areas by Certified Land Engineers. Victor Mjalik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on compensation for differences in tariffs to the utilities of AES satellite cities. Alexia Silent to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the move and the state of pretrial investigation. Eugenia Bragara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of cultural, medical, educational, social services to citizens of the potential, only during periods of overpriced gas market prices, to sign direct contracts without purchasing on the ProZorro site, natural gas at the prices of domestic consumers, taking into account its transport. Sergey Mandiya to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Education, Science and Innovation, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the integration of the comments of the World Health Organization "Ukraine Association of Marketing" into the project of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine "Terms of Admission for Higher Education in 2022" from the organization of the introductory test for obtaining the Master's degree in specialties 07 "Government and Administration". Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the work of the Single National Register of Citizens requiring improvement in living conditions. Valery Kolucha to the Attorney General, the Acting Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, the Head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, for the conduct of a review of the first deputy prosecutor of the Cherka district of Sidor Ostap Igorovich for the improper performance of his duties, the verification of his declaration and the double acceptance of an oath as a prosecutor and a lawyer. Alexia Movcana to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Ukrainian Railway Association's Government for the refusal to purchase imported trains at budget costs without the organization of a localization of production in Ukraine. Anastasia Llashenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of passenger transport within the Lubensk oblast and the lack of a significant increase in fuel prices. Anastasia Lashenko to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the need to resolve the fuel market situation and to prevent a significant increase in fuel prices. Groups of National Deputies (Capitina, Rapina, and others) A total of 10 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of the facts of the ineffective management of the Antonov State Enterprise. Igora Krivosheev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the outcome of the review of the address of the Kiev City Head Vladimir Klitschka with the proposal to create a multi-functional garbage complex in the Chernobyl area. Michael Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the stable operation of the Municipal Institute of Higher Education of the Kyiv Academy of Arts. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services in terms of the efficiency of payment of gas by two payments. The Gennady of Watzak to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the organization of the anti-cancer fight in Ukraine, the use of urgent preventive measures and early diagnosis of the most common types of malignant neoplasms, and the financing of treatment of oncological children and adults with essential medical supplies 100 per cent of the need.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u216	Helen Constantine, that's all of them, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u217	Not all of them, but the ones we've been able to read in half an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u218	Thank you, Olena Kostvena. It's been 30 minutes. And now, dear fellows, let's move on to speeches on various issues. I'd like a colleague to sign up for the performance, please. The word is given to national deputy Kostuk Dmitry Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u219	Dear national MPs, colleagues! That's what the Coronavirus epidemic is about, we don't talk much about war, it's this problem, but in fact, Ukraine is now at the brink of a real environmental disaster. And that means almost all of the areas of Ukraine. The question is that our citizens have quality drinking water, as you know, now there is a significant increase in the number of oncosa, other diseases associated with the fact that people simply do not have normal drinking water. What was done in previous years by this authority, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Kabmin, the President? Some programs that were not supported by funding were approved each time. In fact, responsibility for what was happening in cities and villages was sent to the local authorities. Thus, the treatment plants that are in rivers from which water is taken for supply at populated sites, all these treatment plants are transferred to the balance of local authorities. So to the country council, when they're transferring cleaners, it's clear that this rural council that doesn't have a completely budget for development, it can't finance the fact that it can't even develop project documentation, because it just doesn't have the money to do it. Similarly, in cities, so as not to mention all of Ukraine, I will guide the devices of my district – Novograd-Wolinski. In the city, huge problems with the fact that the water network, which was built in the 1970s and 1980s, is being used up, the water just doesn't reach the citizens' homes, 60 percent of the water is just lost on the road. What's going on? Translating responsibility to local authorities, the central authority thus abandoned them. The rural councils, where there is no money, did nothing about cleaning. Where the money is, somehow the authorities in Novograd Wallinsky, in Pula, in other populated areas of my district, translated responsibility into people, actually simply increasing each year, and continue to do so now, increasing payments, without updating the water supply system at all. So it's older, it's leaky, and actually money just goes nowhere. And that's what the Ukrainians are paying for. And the government programs that existed, for example, until recently was the Drinking Water program from the tenth to the tenth years, there were, in fact, only three years. Three years of funding and execution were only 13 percent. So, a huge hole and a huge problem we have with drinking water all over Ukraine. So it's important that we have a billion dollars in our budget for this year for Drinking Water for the next four years. I hope that we vote in favour of this budget, and the communities will get the money from the government to repair the sewage plant, to upgrade the water supply network in cities and villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u220	Thank you. Next, she passes the word to Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u221	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, revered Ukrainian people! Next week, on Sunday, Kharkiv will choose a new city manager. And I would like to call from this high rostrum all law enforcement agencies to ensure that the rule of law in Kharkiv is respected. To appeal to all members of the electoral commissions of various levels to ensure the general electoral law, free will, equal electoral law and to ensure the secret ballot that the will of the people of the city of Harkov, the will of the territorial community of the city of Kharkiv are embodied and our lives are embodied. An extremely important day, an important moment in the city of Kharkiv, we hope that Kharkiv will finally get his new headmaster. I would also like to address all the voters who will come to the polling stations in Kharkiv. Please come, vote, follow all the health standards recommended by the Ukrainian Ministry of Health, do not ignore the elections, let's choose a new mayor. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u222	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Then Lopushanski passes it on to the National Deputy Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u223	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity, 119 constituency. For several days now, we've been looking at the amendments to the 2022 State Budget, "European Solidarity" in all areas has made its proposals. Unfortunately, these proposals are not supported in Parliament's walls here, even though we submitted all of these remedies in advance during the formation of this budget. And I'm going to tell you how a major deputy used to give me medicine in the world, about how much money you have to put in this budget in your unified territorial communities. When this budget was proposed, I contacted the leaders of the united territorial communities, gave them figures, and they immediately sent letters, because in many territorial communities, the educational subsidy did not match the formula for this subsidy, where it was divided into a million and a half million and 2 million. And by making these amendments, I was hoping that the budget committee would take them into account, or here in the walls of Parliament, these amendments would be supported. Regrettably, each amendment is accompanied by a brief formulation, which is partly taken into account, that the government is entrusted with settling. So this is really, as colleagues said, actually quietly, as they say, sent in three letters, and just everything. Similarly, in the coal sector, before the budget for the year 2022, I had personally been given figures that, along with the companies, were analyzed. And it was clearly formed, which numbers in every field, for each category, have to be put into the budget in 2022 to normally implement the program and modernize the coal companies and make a difference in the cost of coal production, that is to say, the wage of coal miners. And accordingly these figures were not included in the body of the law and were not supported, including the amendments that I made to the budget that went through the hearing or so - called first reading. Sadly, this was not supported. So in view of that, I turned to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u224	I can't, at the expense of the others. Now, Ironman, he passes the word "Savchuk." If it comes to you, you'll get it again. Please, National Deputy Savichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u225	Oksana Savichuk, Ivano-Frankish. I want to say a few words today to all those who are watching television today and to all the national MPs who understand the importance of today's debate in parliament when each MP expresses his concern. Question number one, which has not yet been resolved in our country, is not just a severe disease of the coronavirus, a large number of patients. This second question, which would seem to be solved in itself, is the integration of heat into our homes, kindergartens, hospitals, and all the other social institutions. You know, I want to say on an example of what's really going on right now not only in Ivano-Frankivsk, but across Ukraine. There are two options to the situation. There's a heatcommunerge that directly from NAC Naftogaz got this heat and got gas. And today the places they serve, and the educational institutions, the cultures, the homes, they can pass heat there, and this heat is now measured into 16 bracelets and above the memorandum. But there are institutions that today have to make direct agreements with NAC Naftogaz, and these direct agreements are still pending. This means that institutions such as kindergartens, schools, and homes do not have heat. Will they have it on Monday? Most likely they won't. Will they have it in ten days? They probably won't. And this question scares me, because it's not a priority, I think, for the government. Why Not Prioritized? Because this decision, which is now in force, that contracts should be made and transferable from the old supplier to the new supplier, is so complicated that most cannot make direct contracts with NAC Naftogaz. And the system is opaque. What should the government do today, including arguing that they are ready for the hot season? He should simplify this decision, do all he can to ensure that either a medical facility or a hospital or a maternity home or a garden could make a deal. Because today, aside from high tariffs, the question is that they can't even get this heat connected. And many communities, especially the new ones, are now hostages of the situation. I would like to address you today, Prime Minister, I ask you to do your every job effectively. Do not let go of what local communities cannot do. Do an effective job on your own, make the procedure fast, operational, and we will talk about perhaps some who are sitting on their own chairs today, at least sometimes thinking about the community. Because gardens and educational institutions deserve warmth.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u226	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u227	Thank you. Mikisha Dmitry, 181 constituency, Kharkiv district, interfractional MPs association, Slobožanšina. Cancer is a plague of our time. Unfortunately, in Ukraine statistics on new diseases and cancer mortality are the second immediately after cardiovascular disease. Ukrainian President Vladimir Aleksandrovich Zelenski knows about the problem and, while in the Kharkiv region, he promised that the Kharkiv district cancer center would be built. We, the Ukrainian national deputies from Kharkishteina, are also concerned about this issue, have submitted a corresponding application to the Ukrainian State Budget for 2022, where we place 500 million dollars. And here's a very big question for me to ask the Harkow district council. Recently, at their meeting, they did not extend the contract of the chief physician, Quick Dennis. This is the person who's taking care of this cancer center. That's the person who's moving in, lobbying for it to be built. This is the man who created, invited, and now with his new young team, helping tens, hundreds of people to live as long as possible. This is the person who's worried about every life in Kharkiv County. Oncological Center, its operation is not limited to the Kharkiv region – Donetsk, Lugansk, Sumsk, Poltavsk region. And what do the MPs of the Kharkiv District Council do? They just don't keep this man's contract. Why, she asks. I am deeply grateful to the 53 district deputies who supported the extension of the contract. You're the kind of people who really care about their citizens, about their voters in Kharkiv County. I'm addressing all the people in the Harkow region who chose those MPs who either didn't support or didn't even have the spirit to vote. Ask them why and who will be responsible if something happens in your family or in their family if, for God's sake, an oncological disease is diagnosed? Again, I have a question. Why did these people not extend the contract? I encourage them to think twice, and in February 2022, when the competition is announced, transparently and openly after it is held, to support the candidature that will win this competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u228	Thank you. Then, please, instead of the National Deputy Masurash, the People's Deputy of Mazurash. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u229	George Mazurashu, Servant of the People, 203 District. I'd like to pause on a few questions and start with the signals that come to us as the national MPs from the Bukovina Interfractional Union. Some landowners say that they go to a hospital in utility, and they want to use, for example, state - owned equipment, such as a computer tomographer, and they are refused and sent to private clinics. We communicated with the head of the health department, and he assured us that everything purchased at the expense of government equipment, computer CTs, including installed and working, and there was no reason to refuse citizens, unless there was a huge turnout there, but that would be understandable. So I offer to our countrymen who suddenly face such situations so that they will be sure to report. It can't be, it can't be. The other one. We discussed issues of Euro-Integration in Thursday's session, and our colleagues, who, in principle, go with such a flag, can be said to be Euro-Integrated, said that for the first time in just two years, we had a meeting there. So I would like to remind you that, for example, as a representative of the Romanian district, they say 203 districts, we have almost half of the border with countries bordering the EU and NATO, this is the border with Romania, and we don't have an intergovernmental commission for five years. Well, and I hope that now that this committee is headed by our Minister Alexander Kubrakov, who is demonstrating efficiency in the status of the national deputy, and in the positions he is working on in our team, with his appearance in this position, will move because the work of this commission has great potential for use, including certain investments and the Green Agreement program, and others, and this needs to be done in close cooperation with our neighbour, Romania. Now I would like to draw attention to another point that concerns our activity inside Parliament: the question of protecting the voice of each of us has not yet been resolved, because you know, because of technical problems, in principle, there are no votes every day, and unfortunately, the bill that we tabled with colleagues has been withdrawn from consideration. I don't understand that attitude. I mean, I don't want my voice to go missing just because of technical problems. I call on my colleague to support, perhaps once again, and yet so that we can protect our voice, which is provided for us by the Constitution and the laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u230	Thank you. Then, instead of the National Deputy Dirdina, the People's Deputy Melnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u231	Dear Chairman, dear Ukrainians, I would like to draw your attention to a situation of gross violation of Ukrainian legislation that is taking place in the city of Primorsk Zaporozky, where illegal construction of the recreational coastal zone is being carried out. These facts have been addressed by local residents, public activists, journalists, since the unscrupulous entrepreneur from Tokmak, on illegally separated areas of land on the coast of the Azov Sea in Primorsk, specifically in the recreational zone, has built up a building and is engaged in illegal entrepreneurial activities. Today, illegally constructed buildings are used to accommodate the restorative. I would like to point out that there is no legal right to use the land, nor are they legally enforced. The construction of a coastal recreational zone and the use of ready facilities for resting in uninhabited areas poses a threat to human life and health, as well as to environmental damage. These objects are built on a clay slope that can collapse at any moment and lead to human sacrifice. It is also known that this unconscionable current entrepreneur does not pay taxes for several years, and budgets of all levels do not receive funds. This, in turn, violates the interests of the State, the local government, and the local people. Now there's underfunding in the Primorski community of Zaporozhye district in the medical, municipal and other areas. I would like to point out that if I collect all the unpaid taxes from this entrepreneur, there will be enough money for both the salaries of the utilities and the payments to the doctors who are now in the lead battle against the coronavirus. This situation received broad and social resonance and publicity. The locals are extremely indignant about the impunity of the guilty in this situation and demand fair, impartial investigation and prosecution. I will note that in the context of this situation, I have addressed a parliamentary appeal to the law enforcement and control authorities within the authorized Ukrainian National Deputy. I also initiated a collective parliamentary inquiry to all levels that emphasized the urgency of the response and the importance of bringing the guilty to justice. The facts are impressive. The illegal construction of the recreational zone and the use of uninhabited buildings with the provision of rest facilities is dangerous. And it's also a big damage to the environment, and I want to emphasize it. Today, according to the results of parliamentary appeals and inquiries under the prosecution’s procedural direction, a judicial investigation is being conducted with evidence of a criminal offence. I am addressing the Attorney General, the Head of the Special Environmental Prosecutor's Office, the Head of the Police, the State Environmental Inspectorate and the State Tax Service of Ukraine, especially the Head of the newly created State Inspectorate of Architecture and Urban Development, to take appropriate measures to respond to the implementation of protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u232	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, please. Another performance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u233	Thank you. Well, I'll keep going. So when I went to the Minister of Finance, unfortunately, I heard at the Ministry of Energy that the numbers didn't go away because nothing was done by the Ministry of Energy to make the mines go out. How can they get out of control if the Ministry of Finance does not provide development funds? I then offered to contribute to the granting of loans through government banks for the modernization of mines. Then two rabbits can be killed: upgrading mines, reducing the cost of coal production, and thus reducing the pressure on Ukraine’s state budget. I hope the Minister of Finance heard me and will work in this direction. But in the 22nd year, unfortunately, the mining problems don't end, because the billion that was allocated to pay off the wages in 2021 will be too small. We served a $2.4 billion allowance with colleagues, later in our communication with the Ministry of Energy in connection with the increase in the price of coal production, they assured us that there would be 2.1 billion, or 1.1 billion, that is, enough to pay off the wages of miners by the end of this year. Again, I heard that nothing on the part of the Ministry of Energy was being done. In fact, today, at the request of government colleagues who asked about miners, what is being done, how to go through a heating period that lacks coal in warehouses, four times less on TECs, TES than needed, the Energy Minister said, we'll cover it at the expense of imports. Again import, import and import. Nothing is said for investing in domestic production, in the country’s mines, in the government’s carbon economy. I want to speak to President Greensky. Two years ago, when you were in a meeting with coal miners, at a union meeting, you promised to develop domestic carbon. Give instructions to the Ministry of Finance to find $1.1 billion by the end of the year to pay off the wages of miners. And give instructions to make sure that they are able to find an opportunity to finance the state's carbon economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u234	Thank you. And please, instead of Mazurashu, the people's MP Bragar. And that seems to be it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u235	Congratulations. I want to come up with a rather crucial question, the issue of vaccination. One of our fellow MPs, Sofia Fedin, a member of the European Solidarity Council today, said that as if President Vladimir Zelensky had promised to provide the Ukrainians with a vaccine and he didn't. But our President has fulfilled his promise and provided the Ukrainians with a vaccine. It was hard enough to do so, but any Ukrainian who wishes to receive a vaccine can contact his family doctor and receive a vaccine and pass it as soon as possible. I urge all Ukrainians to undergo vaccination. Vaccination is a protection, it's a protection against COVID. Even if you suffer from this disease, you will still be able to carry it more easily. Another issue that is equally relevant is the capture of OSCE workers in Donbas. Recently, this violent event took place when representatives of the international monitoring mission at Donbas, Gorlovka, closed down at their own hotel and demanded that they exchange them for a captured pro - Russian fighter. It is, of course. We have to say that this is an impenetrable issue, this question is already going beyond national law and it is already an international war crime for which these fighters are to be punished by the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u236	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we still have a few announcements, so I will continue the plenary session until the issues surrounding the announcement are resolved. First. Ladies and gentlemen, today, a letter was sent to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the signature of 11 of the 20 National Deputies of the MPs of the political party "The Voice" in which the National Deputies are asked to announce at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which reads literally, "a violation of the requirements of part four of article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" by the National Deputy of the Republic of Ukraine, Jaroslav Ivanovic, in part of the illegal occupation of the First Deputy and Head of the Deputy faction, respectively, by the Committee of the Supreme Council on the Rules, the Deputate Ethics and the Organization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 24.09.2021". Next. Cessation of the leadership of the deputy faction of the political party "Golos" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call of Ironman I. in connection with the violation of the requirements of legislation, as well as the decision of the majority of the members of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Golos" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call of 12.07.2021 on the release of Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich from office as head of the deputy faction. And they also ask that until the election of the head of the deputy faction of the political party "Golos" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation of Ustinov Alexander Yuriovna will temporarily assume the responsibilities of the faction's head in deciding most of the faction's composition. This letter was added: a letter from the Committee on Rules, Deputies of Ethics and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council dated 24.09.2021 to the address of Ukrainian National Deputy Klimenko U.L. and other National Deputies of the members of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Golos"; the decision of the deputy faction of the political party "Golos" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call of 12.07.2021 on the release of the head of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Golos" by Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovic and the position of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Golos" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation. I'm getting information. Jaroslav Ivanovich, a replica. Please, one minute, line.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u237	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Let me make it clear once again that it was just the announcement of individual national deputies that I heard, 11. I'm going to remind you that not even 14 is the right thing to do. This statement is based on either forged documents or worthless documents. Because neither the head of the Voice faction nor the deputy head of the faction, who is also next door, nor the political council of the Voice faction have taken any decision on this issue. I'll remind my colleagues that the faction is governed only by the faction that there should be 14 votes. And my colleagues, I hope, 14 are different from any number. Therefore, I ask that this claim be considered once again legally worthless and one that has no effect or change in the leadership of the Voice faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2021-10-22-m0.u238	Jaroslav Ivanovich, this is not a statement. This letter, which I quoted, came to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I made it known that there was such a letter, and there are plugins to it. Next. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "For the Ratification of the Rome Statute". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Aleksandrovitch, was elected head of this association. And I'm also reporting that Ukrainian National Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich has made a statement that he has mistakenly voted in favour of Bill 6055. In fact, he wanted to abstain. Dear colleagues, the MPs are working with the voters next week. The plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, November 2, at 10 a.m. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
